Mobile-based Patient-centric EMR Sharing System Using Blockchain
217978-1-7281-9579-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 
Mobile-based Patient-centric EMR Sharing System 
Using Blockchain 
 
 
Kanwar Muhammad Afaq 
Department of Computer Science and 
Information Engineering 
Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
kmafaq786@gmail.com  
Prayitno 
Department of Computer Science and 
Information Engineering 
Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
prayitno@polines.ac.id 
Yuan-Yu Tsai 
Department of M-Commerce and 
Multimedia Applications 
Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
yytsai@asia.edu.tw 
Yu-Ching Chen 
Department of Bioinformatics and  
Medical Engineering 
Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
yuching@asia.edu.tw 
Zon-Yin Shae* 
Department of Computer Science and  
Information Engineering 
Asia University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
zshae1@asia.edu.tw  
Abstract—Nowadays, mobile devices are the most important 
components in human life. With the help of various apps, we 
interact with other people, play games to kill time, or perform 
online shopping activities. However, despite the convenience of 
mobile devices, most cross-institutional EMR sharing still needs 
written forms and waiting time for application. Although 
existing blockchain-based data exchange architectures have 
been proposed, the most frequently used mobile devices have 
never been considered. This study is carried out to integrate 
mobile devices to develop a blockchain-based patient-centric 
EMR sharing system considering data security, data integrity, 
and patient privacy. Under the patient’s consent, the proposed 
system supports selective data sharing between different 
institutions through blockchain in real-time. Patients have the 
complete right to disclose what their EMR shares. Further, 
using mobile devices to scan the QR code provided by the doctor, 
patients easily employ this public key infrastructure to achieve 
enhanced data security. The proposed system provides 
necessary functionalities (authentication, integrity, and access 
control) for EMR data exchange. It shows how mobile features 
(camera, notification, bio-authentication) can be favorable to 
fulfill patient satisfaction. 
Keywords—blockchain, data sharing, EMR, mobile devices, 
patient-centric 
I. INTRODUCTION  
We are living in an age of invention and technological 
advancement. Globally, the use of mobile applications and 
wireless networks is expanding quickly across all sectors. We 
depend on smartphones to manage calendars, arrange work 
and business operations, remain updated and engaged 
through social networks, and book doctor visits and 
healthcare check-ups. Mobile health apps are becoming more 
popular, with functions such as self-monitoring chronic 
health issues, medication adherence reminders, scheduling, 
and direct contact with the health care system 
[1,2]. Healthcare innovation has raised app development to 
an essential and a pleasure. Mobile healthcare apps are being 
used excitedly by both healthcare organizations and patients. 
User-friendliness, dependability, time-efficiency, mobility, 
and other factors all contribute to the acceptance of mobile 
healthcare applications. Despite the increase in the number of 
mobile health applications, there are fewer studies about 
using mobile phones to share patients’ sensitive medical data 
[3,4].  
Patient-centric care coordination puts patients in control 
of their care and provides them with the information they 
need to achieve high-quality results. According to research 
on optimal chronic disease management, multi-component 
interventions are necessary to enhance patient-centric care. 
These interventions include organizational changes in how 
health provider teams work and communicate with patients, 
patient engagement methods, and both clinicians and patients 
having access to meaningful and relevant information. 
Mobile applications are thus seen as potentially valuable 
instruments for promoting patient-centric care coordination 
by providing new methods. They allow patients and 
clinicians to engage and give information in a personalized 
format that meets their requirements.  
Mobile phones are suitable options for urgent decision-
making with the patient's collaboration. Hence, there is an 
immediate need to digitize health records and build an 
effective communications system to share patient health 
records. New systems must be designed with secured 
electronic health records and an adequately authenticated 
retrieval mechanism [5]. In addition to the patient-provider 
relationship and access-sharing, this must also protect 
patients’ privacy for the patient-centric health data sharing 
system [6]. 
Recent breakthroughs in blockchain technology have 
fundamentally altered the way of application development. 
Blockchain technology, which enables secured transactions 
between participants in the network, has been used in 
electronic health records (EHR) in recent years [7]. This 
technology’s primary concepts include transparency, 
auditability, user sovereignty, and decentralized governance. 
We propose a patient-centric secure mobile-based 
blockchain system for sharing electronic medical records 
(EMR) among legitimate participants. We employ a simple 
and effective access control, use of two-phase authentication, 
JSON web token, and encryption technique to protect the 
security and privacy of patient health data. Implementing 
these principles rebuilds patients’ trust and provides them 
with a better sense of control over private data they can share 
with other parties.  
II. RELATED WORK 
In recent years, blockchain technology has become a 
major central research topic in the development of secure 
20
22
 IE
EE
 4
th
 E
ur
as
ia
 C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 B
io
m
ed
ic
al
 E
ng
in
ee
rin
g,
 H
ea
lth
ca
re
 a
nd
 S
us
ta
in
ab
ili
ty
 (E
CB
IO
S)
 |
 9
78
-1
-7
28
1-
95
79
-7
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
EC
BI
O
S5
46
27
.2
02
2.
99
45
01
7
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
218
2022 IEEE 4th Eurasia Conference on Biomedical Engineering, Healthcare and Sustainability 
healthcare systems. Hang et al. [8] designed a blockchain-
based medical system that secures the maintenance of 
electronic medical records through smart contracts. It gave 
patients a complete, immutable log and simple access to their 
medical records across hospital departments. Jaiman and 
Urovi [9] developed a permission model for blockchain-
based data exchange and access management over personal 
health records. They used smart contracts to represent an 
individual’s consent to use health data dynamically. Kim et 
al. [10] introduced the blockchain-based Personal Health 
Record (PHR) application as a novel way to securely store 
and exchange medical information. An extensive 
questionnaire and usability evaluation indicate the high 
usability of the application. To make EHRs easier to use, 
Chelladurai and Pandian [11] came up with a blockchain-
based model for healthcare. They talked about 
interoperability and data security. They also spoke about how 
important it is to have a patient-centric Electronic Health 
Record (EHR). Dubovitskaya et al. [12] developed a web-
based system that facilitates the control, sharing, and 
reliability of medical data using cloud service. Their patient-
centric solution permits individuals to maintain their medical 
records across various hospitals. 
III. PROPOSED SYSTEM 
This article aims to introduce a mobile-based patient-
centric EMR exchange via blockchain, a patient-centric 
access control mechanism for securely sharing EMRs with 
many stakeholders across healthcare systems. A private 
blockchain, commonly known as a “permissioned 
blockchain,” restricts access to specific individuals. We set 
up a private Ethereum blockchain system with smart-contract 
functionality. One computer, denoted as the blockchain 
adapter for each hospital, serves as a bridge for 
communication between the blockchain network and the 
hospital database. The adapter deals with the data requests, 
validates them, retrieves the required data, and delivers the 
data to the doctor. A combination of JSON web token, 
asymmetric encryption, and blockchain technology makes 
the system more secure and reliable.  
In our solution, we will build a mobile application where 
patients can use their daily mobile devices for a better 
medical experience. ‘Patient,’ ‘Hospital,’ and ‘Doctor’ are 
the main actors in this proposed system. In a high-level 
scenario, our system works as follows. ‘Patient’ receives the 
request for the medical test required by the ‘Doctor’ via 
scanning a quick response (QR) code. The ‘Patient’ then uses 
the JSON web token to request the necessary medical tests 
from the ‘Hospital.’ After all token verification has been 
completed, ‘Hospital’ fetches the patient medical records, 
encrypts them, and sends them to the Interplanetary File 
System (IPFS), a decentralized peer-to-peer file system. This 
system is a promising alternative for building a file-sharing 
platform in the blockchain network. Finally, 
Hospital transmits the received IPFS hash to the ‘Doctor.’ 
‘Doctor’ uses a hash to access the patient’s medical record on 
IPFS and decrypts it with their private key. 
A. Blockchain (Smart Contract) Initialization 
The suggested approach was implemented due to the 
sensitivity of healthcare data. A smart contract was built 
using private Ethereum blockchain technology. The smart 
contract primarily serves four main functions. The first 
function is “Transfer,” which delivers the required test 
queries to the ‘Hospital’ via a transfer method. From the 
‘Patient’ end, it helps store data on the blockchain. The 
second function is “Get.” This function retrieves data from a 
blockchain.  This is done from the ‘Hospital’ to retrieve test 
queries from the blockchain submitted by the Patient. The 
third function is “Send,” used in the hospital. The ‘Hospital’ 
uses this function to transmit patient medical records to the 
appropriate ‘Doctor’ within a time constraint. The fourth 
function, “Retrieve,” is employed in a doctor’s application, 
as ‘Doctor’ retrieves a patient’s health-record link from 
‘Hospital,’ kept on a blockchain. The smart contract ensures 
that the ‘Doctor’ and ‘Hospital’ access the records on the 
blockchain without any form of barrier. As a result, the doctor 
will be able to diagnose the patient’s condition better because 
he has access to accurate health records from a trusted source.   
B. Patient/Doctor Registration 
Fig. 11 illustrates the patient and doctor registration phase. 
Firstly, patients register themselves by using their social 
security number in the system, while doctors register by using 
their identity document (ID). The Resource Management 
System (RMS) checks the users based on a given number 
(social security number/doctor ID) with the hospital. If users 
have been registered in the hospital with the given number, 
the system retrieves the user’s email from the hospital, 
generates a random code, and sends it to the users. After 
entering the code, the users become a part of the system. If 
the users have not been registered in the hospital with the 
given number, the system cannot fetch the information from 
the hospital. Thus, the users are not registered. The RMS 
tracks users’ records and links to the hospital database (we 
use a temporary local database for a trial) to ensure that the 
users are adequately identified during the registration. The 
users create a blockchain wallet using a secret phrase that can 
be obtained when creating a wallet. If they already have a 
blockchain wallet, they can access their wallet back by 
entering the secret phrase or private key. 
 
Fig. 1 User registration. 
C. Data Inquiry 
Fig. 2 illustrates the process of data inquiry. A data inquiry 
scenario requires tests result such as electrocardiogram 
(ECG), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and 
transesophageal echocardiogram (TEE), before diagnosing 
the patient’s disease. The patient informed the doctor that 
they had already done tests (e.g., MRI) in the previous 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
219
2022 IEEE 4th Eurasia Conference on Biomedical Engineering, Healthcare and Sustainability 
hospital. The doctor asked for the medical record of the 
patient. 
 
Fig. 2. Data inquiry and data sharing process. 
Then the doctor provides a QR code, which contains the 
blockchain account, public key, and list of selected tests. To 
begin, patients use a two-phase authentication to access the 
system. The patient inputs an email address, and RMS 
generates a one-time password (OTP) and sends it to his 
email. By entering the OTP, the patient logs in to the system. 
The legitimate patient scans the QR code and obtains the 
blockchain account of the doctor, as well as the public key 
with the required tests. The patient consents to the selected 
medical tests provided by the doctor, and then sends the 
transaction to the hospital so that the hospital can send the 
patient’s medical data to the specified doctor. When a patient 
initiates a transaction with consent, RMS generates a JSON 
web token (JWT) containing the patient’s information, the 
doctor’s information, the required tests, and token 
information (expiration time) in the ciphertext. 
The transaction includes the doctor’s account, doctor’s 
public key, test name, and patient information in the form of 
a token. The blockchain adapter confirms the patient in the 
hospital where the transaction is forwarded. The blockchain 
adapter checks the token validity first for expiration time, and 
secondly, the hospital matches patient information with 
hospital records to confirm the patient’s identity. 
D. Data Sharing 
The lower half of Fig. 2 shows the data sharing process. 
After the authentication and validation of the token, the 
blockchain adapter communicates with the hospital. The 
hospital searches for the requested medical record in its 
hospital database. On successful finding, the medical records 
are encrypted with a doctor’s public key for authenticity and 
security of medical data. The blockchain adapter sends the 
encrypted medical record to the IPFS. All medical data stored 
in IPFS are encrypted by a doctor’s public key to prevent 
unauthorized persons from accessing medical records. The 
returned hash from IPFS is sent to the doctor. The doctor 
receives the link to the IPFS server and hashes from the 
blockchain on the doctor application. The doctor of hospital 
B requests to retrieve data from IPFS using the IPFS hash 
within the specified time. The decryption technique is utilized 
when a doctor requests a patient’s previous data. The doctor 
sees the patient’s medical record, which is secure, authentic, 
and trustable because data is retrieved with the IPFS hash and 
decrypted with the doctor’s private key.  
In the patient application, patients can create or import the 
blockchain wallet, scan QR codes, agree/disagree with 
selected medical tests, send a transaction to the hospital, and 
save transaction ID for tracking. Doctors can create or import 
the blockchain wallet, select the required test, create QR 
codes, and retrieve and view patients’ medical data in the 
doctor application.  
IV. DISCUSSION 
This section shows how we achieve the required 
functionalities for a patient-centric EMR sharing system 
using blockchain. We also discuss the benefits of integrating 
mobile devices.  
A. Authentication 
The proposed system authenticates both patient and 
doctor during registration. The hospital helps to authenticate 
them during the process. The patient is verified with social 
security number while the doctor is confirmed with a doctor’s 
ID. An unknown person cannot be a part of this system. 
Further, two-phase authentications increase confidentiality. 
A malicious attacker can intercept the information transferred 
between the patient and hospital A. He/she pretends to be a 
legitimate patient and then transmits the information to the 
targeted hospital after alteration. However, because the 
information is transferred between the patient and the hospital 
in the form of a token, the hospital identifies token 
modification during token validation if any change happens. 
The JSON web token provides additional verification while 
making the transaction from patient to hospital.  
B. Integrity  
Honesty and integrity are essential in the medical 
profession. To ensure the initiative’s success, healthcare 
professionals must have confidence in the data integrity. 
Physicians may make critical decisions about the patient’s 
survival. To guarantee the EMR’s integrity, the returned hash 
from IPFS is safely exchanged with the doctor. This hash is 
generated by file content in the IPFS storage model, and any 
changes to IPFS data are immediately detectable. The doctor 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
220
2022 IEEE 4th Eurasia Conference on Biomedical Engineering, Healthcare and Sustainability 
obtains the same EMR as the hospital share. Thus, the doctor 
can highly rely on retrieved EMR. 
C. Access Control  
Access control is one necessary security element for any 
organization, particularly in healthcare. This is especially true 
in healthcare clinics and hospitals where the data might be 
necessary for sustaining patients’ health. The proposed 
method enables patients to have total control over their EMRs. 
Patients seeking treatment can choose the doctor they want to 
share their medical data with. Without the help of patients, 
other doctors cannot obtain patient medical data, and 
hospitals also only accept the data requests from the patients. 
D. Integrating With Wearable Device 
Quality care is more important than ever in the patient-
centric world of today. Using health applications with 
wearable devices such as smartwatches provides many 
benefits. When a smartwatch is linked to a smartphone, the 
wearer reads and sends new messages without holding and 
looking at the phone. These devices are linked to a 
smartphone and see notifications right on the wrist. By 
connecting a wearable device to your mobile, notifications 
are checked and received updates about health such as 
heartbeat rate and health-related data with doctors for faster 
diagnosis and treatment. 
E. Making use of Mobile Features 
With the evolution of mobile devices and the increasing 
number of mobile users, new possibilities for the use of 
mobiles in patient care have been developed. Clinicians can 
quickly access patient records via a mobile-based EMR 
without sitting at a workstation. Mobile devices make it easy 
and quick for health care professionals to obtain evidence-
based information, which helps them make clinical decisions 
at the point of care. Further, a mobile-based EMR sharing 
system has more extensive functionalities than previous 
systems, such as real-time notification, bio-authentication, 
camera, and auto-fill OTP.  
Signup and login are the first two steps to use a health 
application because this is more related to personal 
information. The signup requires a two-phase authentication 
by sending a verification code using a mobile number or 
email. Patients benefit from the mobile application because 
the mobile app auto-fills the verification code. In contrast, 
there is no such option available on web apps to fill code 
automatically; patients need to fill it manually. More on, 
mobile apps offer more security protection with bio-
authentication and fingerprints/face recognition than other 
web-based systems. Biometric authentication is incredibly 
simple and rapid from a user's perspective, despite its 
technical nature. Placing a finger on a scanner and instantly 
gaining access to an account.   
Mobile applications have the functionality, including the 
contact list, GPS, phone calls, and accelerometer, of a mobile 
device. Such gadget characteristics make the patient’s 
experience more participatory and convenient when utilized 
within an application. Additionally, these elements influence 
reduced effort. For instance, patients use the camera to 
complete a blockchain address by scanning the QR code 
rather than entering it manually. If you enter a blockchain 
address manually, it is time-consuming, and there is also a 
chance of a mistake. The integrated features of mobile apps 
significantly reduce the time required to complete certain 
processes in an app. Further, with notifications, users can 
remain updated about any unusual activity such as another 
user attempting to log in to your account, the mobile 
applications will alert you in real-time. 
V. CONCLUSION 
Mobile devices are used often in the medical field, and 
their capacity to provide access to services regardless of the 
user's time or location makes them ideal for providing 
healthcare to both patients and healthcare staff. While health-
related apps are expanding, there is a significant gap in the 
availability of patient-centric apps. We proposed a mobile-
based patient-centric medical data sharing system using 
blockchain. The system provides necessary functionalities for 
EMR data exchange and enables the patients to own, control, 
and share their health data quickly and securely. The mobile 
features can be effectively integrated to make the system more 
user-friendly. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research is funded by the Ministry of Science and 
Technology (MOST) Taiwan under the grant numbers 110-
2321-B-468-001 and 110-2511-H-468-005.  
REFERENCES 
[1] B. Tofighi, A. Abrantes, and M. D. Stein, “The role of technology-
based interventions for substance use disorders in primary care: A 
review of the literature,” Med. Clin. North Am., vol. 102, no. 4, pp. 
715–731, Jul. 2018. 
[2] R. N. Moman et al., “A systematic review and meta-analysis of 
unguided electronic and mobile health technologies for chronic pain-is 
it time to start prescribing electronic health applications?” Pain Med. 
Malden Mass, vol. 20, no. 11, pp. 2238–2255, Nov. 2019. 
[3] D. D. Taralunga and B. C. Florea, “A blockchain-enabled framework 
for mhealth systems,” Sensors, vol. 21, no. 8, Art. no. 2828, Apr. 2021. 
[4] Y. Petrakis, A. Kouroubali, and D. Katehakis, “A mobile app 
architecture for accessing EMRs using XDS and FHIR,” in 2019 IEEE 
19th International Conference on Bioinformatics and Bioengineering 
(BIBE), pp. 278–283, Oct. 2019.  
[5] M. Engelhardt, “Hitching healthcare to the chain: An introduction to 
blockchain technology in the healthcare sector,” Technol. Innov. 
Manag. Rev., vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 22–34, Oct. 2017. 
[6] S. Jiang, J. Cao, H. Wu, Y. Yang, M. Ma, and J. He, “BlocHIE: A 
blockchain-based platform for healthcare information exchange,” in 
2018 IEEE International Conference on Smart Computing 
(SMARTCOMP), pp. 49–56, Jun. 2018. 
[7] U. Chelladurai, S. Pandian, and K. Ramasamy, “A blockchain-based 
patient-centric electronic health record storage and integrity 
management for e-health systems,” Health Policy Technol., vol. 10, no. 
4, Art. no. 100513, Dec. 2021. 
[8] L. Hang, E. Choi, and D.-H. Kim, “A novel EMR integrity management 
based on a medical blockchain platform in hospital,” Electronics, vol. 
8, no. 4, Art. no. 467, Apr. 2019. 
[9] V. Jaiman and V. Urovi, “A consent model for blockchain-based health 
data sharing platforms,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 143734–143745, Aug. 
2020. 
[10] J. W. Kim, S. J. Kim, W. C. Cha, and T. Kim, “A blockchain-applied 
personal health record application: Development and user experience,” 
Appl. Sci., vol. 12, no. 4, Art. no. 1847, Jan. 2022. 
[11] U. Chelladurai and S. Pandian, “A novel blockchain based electronic 
health record automation system for healthcare,” J. Ambient Intell. 
Humaniz. Comput., vol. 13, pp. 693–703 Jan. 2022. 
[12] A. Dubovitskaya et al., “ACTION-EHR: Patient-centric blockchain-
based electronic health record data management for cancer care,” J. 
Med. Internet Res., vol. 22, no. 8, Art. no. e13598, Aug. 2020. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.