The Digital and Cyberspace Modernization Strategy; A Possible Strategical Roadmap to Transform Traditional Military Organizations into a Smart Military through the Emerging Information Technology
 
The Digital and Cyberspace Modernization Strategy;  
A Possible Strategical Roadmap to Transform Traditional Military 
Organizations into a Smart Military through the Emerging 
Information Technology  
 
Dr Saleem Ahmed  
OUC Universal College 
in partnership with  
Liverpool John Moores University, UK 
Doha Qatar 
saleem@oryxuni.com 
 
Abstract— The report provides idea about how the military 
organizations could be improved for using future information 
technology. It provides a detail knowledge about the possible 
strategies that could be used by the military organizations to 
change their traditional work process into new advance digital 
process. The report will discuss about the implication of the 
emerging technologies in Military organizations and how the 
organization could adapt to these changes. The emerging 
technologies have the power to change “the rules of the games” 
whether it’s about balancing the military power among security 
actors or balancing the competition in the market among the 
new entrants and existing companies. Thus, it has become 
important for organizations to adapt to these changes.  
The report will discuss about the implementation of 
Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Blockchains in 
military organization and, will also provide idea about the 
potential challenges that military organizations are facing in 
adopting them. Further it will discuss about the possible 
strategies that military organizations could adopt to make their 
employees get familiar with these new technologies and get 
benefitted from it.  
The Unites States has made major improvement in their field 
of technology and the country is said to be the leader in the 
development of most of these technologies. The United State 
military has relied on the technological superiority for ensuring 
their dominance in conflict and also for underwriting their 
national security. China and Russia have also made 
improvement in the development of advance military 
technologies. Hence, going through this report will also provide 
knowledge about the implementation of emerging technologies 
in military organization of some countries and what are the 
things that other military organization should learn from them.  
Keywords - Emerging Technology; Artificial Intelligence; 
Machine Learning; Digital and cyber modernization; Blockchain; 
smart military 
I. INTRODUCTION  
The research paper provides idea about how the military 
organizations could be improved for using future information 
technology and facing the cyber challenges. Over the last few 
years, the rate of cybercrime has increased all over the world 
and has become a global issue. In today’s time all the 
companies including the military organizations are ingrained 
in cyberspace. All the things including personal messages 
between family and friends to diplomatic dispatches and, top 
secrets of military organizations are being created, received, 
transmitted and read in “1s and 0s” of computer codes. In short 
it could be said that cyber space touches all aspect of 21st 
century lifestyle, this has made cyber-attacks more frequent 
and deadly to disrupt the computer networks, power grids and, 
defensive and offensive military equipment’s. The research 
paper will give a detail knowledge about how the military 
organizations could be improved so that they could fight 
against the cyber-attacks and use the new information 
technologies for betterment of the organization.  
 In recent years there has been a substantial 
improvement in technology for determining and detecting 
such cyber-attacks but yet there are a lot of areas were the 
organizations need to make enhancement and bring more 
advanced technologies in use. An organization needs practice 
and preparation to recover effectively from cyber-attacks and 
the main challenge to sustain cyber resilience is facing 
constant change in the work culture of an organization. Many 
Military organizations encounter changes on daily basis which 
include change on work process, application or the use of new 
technologies. Therefore, if security controls will not adjust to 
keep pace, the companies will have to face vulnerabilities that 
could expose them for month or years. The paper will discuss 
about strategies and techniques that could be used by Military 
organization to implement the use of Information 
technologies, Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and 
Blockchains, so that they could mitigate the risk of cyber-
attacks (Reding & Eaton, 2020). 
 In order to provide a clear knowledge to the readers 
the research paper has been divided into different sections. 
First, there is a brief abstract that discuss about the core topic 
of the paper and provides a reader with a brief idea of the 
research topic. Then comes the introduction part, it contains 
authentic and relevant data related to the project topic and the 
research questions and research objectives are clearly defined 
in this section. The research paper aims at fulfilling the 
objectives of the paper and also provide authentic answers to 
the research question. Thirdly, a literature review section is 
developed and, in this section, information is collected from 
different articles and journals of various authors. The 
information collected from the previous research studies and 
articles are authentic and relevant to the research topic. Further 
the research paper provides detailed knowledge of the 
strategies and frameworks that could be used by the military 
organization for implementing new technologies, it provides 
idea of the methods and techniques that the organization could 
use to make their employees get familiar with the use of new 
technologies at workplace. 
20
22
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
pu
te
r a
nd
 A
pp
lic
at
io
ns
 (I
CC
A)
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
52
94
-6
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
CA
56
44
3.
20
22
.1
00
39
57
1
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
RESEARCH OBJECTIVES: 
1. to determine the strategies and measures that could be 
used my military organization to transform traditional 
military organization into smart military organizations.  
2. to determine the importance of use of advanced 
technologies in military organizations.  
3. to identify the upcoming new technologies that could be 
use in military organization for possible change.  
 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
A. Improvement and modernization of military 
organization for facing cyber challenges and using 
future information technology : 
In recent years the importance for getting prepared and 
recovering from cyberattacks has increased drastically. It has 
been found that the U.S military has made improvement in 
their military organization by implementing new and 
advanced technologies. In the year 2016, the momentum of 
preparing from cyberattacks was seen in the budget that was 
requested from White House, in that budget the former 
President of U.S Barack Obama asked $19 billion for building 
the cybersecurity, that was 35 
% more than the previous year (Nurkin & Konaev, 2022). That 
request of cybersecurity made by U.S gives a backdrop to the 
government agencies to think twice about their approach 
towards cybersecurity. As the technologies are advancing the 
risk of malicious threats are increasing and it is required for 
federal civilian and military agencies to get prepared for 
cyberattacks. The ability of an agency to recover effectively 
from the cyber-attacks needs practice and preparation. 
Therefore, for facing cyberattacks military organizations are 
required to adopt the new and advanced technologies, but the 
major issue that organizations face in implementing these 
technologies is facing constant change. The adoption of new 
technologies in organization brings changes and the 
employees face difficulty in adjusting with such changes; thus, 
it has become crucial for companies to adjust with the changes 
and make their employees prepare to face this change (Nunes, 
1999). 
 The organizations could rely on the military 
readiness model to fight against cyber-attacks, this model will 
help agencies build resilience from ground level and sustain 
those targeted resilience through perpetual change.  The 
military readiness model assumes that in an organization 
change takes place in every area and adjusting training and 
resourcing plans according to change will help in better 
adjustment and acceptance. Furthermore, it has been found 
that in response to cyber breach in the year 2013, navy 
executed “Operation Rolling Tide,” a plan for removing 
adversary from the unclassified network of Navy and give 
security to the network from more penetration. The key 
elements of the plan include establishment of clear control and 
command, synchronizing defender activities and network 
operator, defining responsibilities and roles and developing 
effective communication plan externally and internally. After 
the cybersecurity culture took hold, the organization are 
required to train and educate their employees about the use of 
new technologies so that they get familiar to it and makes its 
best utilization when needed (dodcio.defense.gov, 2019). 
B. Expansion of cyber skills at military organizations: 
As software is becoming more integral part of human life, 
that national security experts of U.S military has recognized 
the need for improving their software fluency. The U.S 
military has understood that in order to become dominant at 
future battlefields they will need better knowledge of software 
and technology. Enhancing cyber technology has become the 
first priority of Biden administration and they are also 
focusing on improving their STEM knowledge in their 
national security workforce so that they get prepared for the 
upcoming future challenges related to technology. The 
Department of Defense has already identified the urgency of 
improving their cyber skill sets at both leadership and 
personnel levels. The 2018, cyber strategy of DoD believed 
that the organizations staffs and leaders are needed to be cyber 
fluent in order to understand the implications of cyber security 
in their decision-making process and, are also in a position to 
identify the opportunities that are related to cyber domain for 
gaining operational, strategic and tactical advantage (Ryseff, 
2021) 
 In similar manner the Air force have decided to 
enhance their proficiency in digital sector by encouraging the 
airmen to learn the languages of computer in the same way 
they encouraged them earlier to learn about foreign languages. 
Still, just learning about this skill sets will not be the best and 
proper way to educate the leaders and officers in military 
organization to face and fight against cyber specialists. It is 
being discussed that both cybersecurity and software 
engineering are detailed and complicated studies and one need 
to have a deep knowledge of it if they want to fight against it 
effectively. Thus, just providing the leaders and employees 
with a few weeks course will hardly give them any detailed 
knowledge about cyber security and software engineering. 
Hence, instead of providing their existing employees with few 
weeks course, organization should focus on encouraging the 
upcoming personnel and leader learn about the technical 
discipline. For example, in the IT companies the product 
managers are provided with the responsibility of identifying 
customer need, and for this the manager undergoes deep 
research and tries to understand the needs of the customer so 
that they could be satisfied in the best possible way. Once, the 
product manager identifies the need of the customer they go 
to the software developer team and guide them to provide 
proper solution to the customer as per the customers need 
(Golden, 2016). 
 Moreover, when the organization face problem with 
inevitable resources and limited time, the project manager is 
the one who decides the most essential capabilities that could 
be used to deliver the product. Thus, the product manager 
performs the role of bridge between the rest organization and 
the engineers, this means they should learn to communicate 
properly with both the non-technical teams and the technical 
teams. The product managers handle multiple tasks at the 
same time, like at one meeting they are required to convince 
the engineering team to develop proper product with all the 
required features added, on the other side they convince 
compliance team to work as per the procedures and policies. 
Once, all this is completed the product manager is required to 
explain the work value to the leaderships of the organization. 
Therefore, having this kind of skills and knowledge will also 
help the officers of Military organizations on more than just 
attending and completing an introductory lesson on 
programming.  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Figure 1: Building cyber workforce 
Additionally, for encouraging the officers, the 
organization should consider some incentives. Firstly, they 
could develop a certification in for advancing the O5 and O4 
rank to combat some specialties.  Like in Navy the surface 
warfare officers are responsible to protect the carrier groups 
from the missiles and submarines of enemies, and the process 
of detecting and destroying such adversaries are dependent on 
automation and software. Therefore, the warfare officers of 
mid-carrier surface might be taught about these new concepts 
and skills. Secondly, the Department of Defense could create 
new opportunities for their officers by putting their skills and 
knowledge into practice. Thirdly they could motivate their 
officers in developing their product management skills at the 
time of disassociated tours. The military already have some of 
their personnel in technology companies like Amazon and 
Microsoft for learning more about business practices Thus the 
organization could enhance the prestige of such assignments 
by encouraging their ambitious officers to seek the 
opportunities out.  
C. Implementation of advance technologies in military 
organization: 
(i) Implementation of AI:  
 The implementation of new and advanced 
technologies in military organizations have increased and 
some of the developing countries like U.s Russia and China 
has already started implementation of hypersonic weapons, 
artificial intelligence, lethal autonomous weapon, quantum 
and biotechnology weapon and directed energy weapons. The 
use of this technologies has helped Russia, U.S and China to 
transform their traditional military operations into smart 
military operations. Artificial Intelligence is referred to any 
behaviour that is like human but is displayed by a system or 
machine. It has been found that the investments of DoD’s in 
AI have increased from $ 600 million in the year 2016 to 
around $874 million in the year 2022, with the organization 
maintaining more than 685 active artificial intelligence 
projects. The U.S DEPARTMENT OF Défense has 
established joint Artificial Intelligence centre (JAIC) for 
coordinating more than $15 million DoD projects (Nurkin & 
Konaev, 2022). JAIC has undertook several National Mission 
Initiatives for Artificial Intelligence, which include disaster 
relief and humanitarian aid, business process transformation, 
predictive maintenance and war fighter health. Moreover, a 
Joint Common Foundation is also being maintained by the 
JAIC for a “secure cloud-based AI development and 
experimentation environment” this joint foundation supports 
fielding and testing of AI capabilities department-wide. It has 
been found that in the year 2021 the Deputy Secretory of 
Défense, Kathleen Hicks directed to establish the Chief 
Digital and AI office that will “serve as the successor 
organization to the JAIC, reporting directly to the Deputy 
Secretary of Defence.” 
 
 
Figure 2: Adoption journey of AI in JAIC 
 Further the author Nunes (1999), states that, in the 
international market of AI China is seen to be the closest 
competitor of U.S in the year 2017. The recent achievements 
of China in the field of AI demonstrates its potentiality to 
realize its goal for development of AI. It has been found that 
China has developed facial and language recognition 
technologies, and they are planning to integrate this in the 
domestic surveillance network of the country (Nunes, 1999). 
Additionally, it has been found that China is developing 
different types of sea, land, air and undersea military vehicles, 
the country is also actively pursuing the swarm technologies 
which could be used in adversary missile defence 
interceptors. Moreover, some publications show that China is 
establishing an AI tools suite for their cyber operations 
(dni.gov, 2021). 
Figure 3: Artificial Intelligence 
 The president of Russia Vladimir Putin said in one 
his statements that, “whoever becomes the leader in AI will 
become the ruler of the world.” However, it has been found 
that currently in the development of AI Russia significantly 
lags behind China and the United States. Thus, in order to 
overcome the gap Russia has launched a national strategy 
which outlines 5-10 years benchmark to enhance the datasets, 
AI expertise, legal regulator systems, infrastructure and 
educational program. Moreover, it has been found that Russia 
has indicated that it will robotize 30% of its military 
equipment by the year 2050. The author states that Russia is 
conducting a thorough research on several AI applications by 
emphasising heavily on autonomous and semiautonomous 
military vehicles. Additionally, the military organization of 
Russia is planning to incorporate Artificial Intelligence in 
naval, undersea vehicle and unmanned aerial and is also 
focusing on the development of their swarming capabilities. 
The implementation of this technologies will help Russia in 
reducing their manpower requirements and cost and will 
enable the country to field more system with little personnel 
(Fidock, 2006).  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
(ii) Implementation of Hypersonic Weapons:  
 Hypersonic weapons are the weapons that fly at high 
speed of Mach 5, or could be said as the five times of the speed 
of sound. The hypersonic weapons are of two types mainly 
first is Hypersonic glide vehicles, this are basically launched 
from rockets before they glide to target and second is 
Hypersonic cruise missiles, this has high-speed engines 
throughout the time of their flight.  (James, 2013).  
 It has been found from researches that China has 
developed the intercontinental ballistic missile- DF-41 
(ICBM), that could carry nuclear hypersonic glide vehicle, as 
per a report of 2014 by the U.S-China Economic and Security 
review commission. General Terrence O’ Shaughnessy, who 
was the commander of Northern Command of U.S confirmed 
the assessment in February 2020 after testifying that “China is 
testing a (nuclear-capable) intercontinental-range hypersonic 
glide vehicle, which is designed to fly at high speeds and low 
altitudes. complicating our ability to provide precise 
warning.” In addition, it has been found that China has tested 
DF-ZF hypersonic glide vehicle approximately nine-times 
from 2014 and the defence officials of U.S has stated that 
these missiles have the capability to perform evasive 
maneuvers at time of flight (James, 2013). 
Furthermore, it has been found that Russia is concerned 
for the development of hypersonic weapons as President Putin 
stated in the year 2018 that “the U.S is permitting constant, 
uncontrolled growth of the number of anti-ballistic missiles, 
improving their quality, and creating new missile launching 
areas. If we do not do something, eventually this will result in 
the complete devaluation of Russia’s nuclear potential. 
Meaning that all our missiles could simply be intercepted.” 
Thus, Russia is seeking hypersonic weapons that could 
maneuver their targeted approach for penetrating U.S missile 
defence and restore the sense of strategic stability (Sayler, 
2022). 
 
(iii) Implementation of Big Data and Advanced data 
Analytics:  
The big and advances data analytics explains about the 
analytical methods that could visualize large volumes of 
information. The enhancement in the new communication 
models, internet of things, and the virtualisation of the socio-
cognitive space contributes towards development of the big 
data. From the starting of the year 1960, the world is becoming 
increasing virtual and digital and in the coming next year the 
trend is about to increase more and will have a disruptive 
impact on the capabilities and alliance operations. This 
magnitude of this data sets become difficult to handle 
logistically because of the increase in the velocity, volume, 
visualisation, variety and velocity and this is going to present 
significant organizational, technical and interoperability 
challenges. Thus, the new communication technologies, 
autonomy, distributed sensors, digital twins, virtual socio-
cognitive space and the development of the expanded 
analytical method will enhance the ability of organizations to 
understand the information, physical and human spaces 
around them. The BDAA will provide the technology for all 
the EDT’s and will also help in the enhancement of the 
Military Capabilities. Moreover, the implementation of the 
big data analytics will drive the need and development for AI.  
 
(iv) Implementation of Quantum technology:  
 The implementation of Quantum technology in an 
organization help in translating principles of quantum physics 
in technological applications. However, the use of this new 
technology has not yet reached maturity, but it is expected that 
it could hold major implication for future of military 
encryption, communication and sensing. It has been found that 
under Quantum technology other military applications could 
also be formed like quantum sensing, that could function to 
enable major enhancements in the submarine detection, 
rendering ocean transparent. This in turn could help to 
compromise survivability of sea-based nuclear deterrent of 
U.S. As per the Défense Science Board Task Force on 
implementation of the Quantum Technology assessment, 
three applications of the quantum technology proved the most 
promising for the U.S military this includes, quantum 
communications, quantum computing and quantum sensing. 
The task force thinks that the implementation of quantum 
sensing could enhance the ability of DoD to carry out some 
missions, providing timing options in environment and 
precision navigation where GPS is denied or degraded. 
Further the use of quantum computers could provide 
potentiality to substantial computation power of DoD for AI, 
signals processing and decryption, and lastly the 
implementation of quantum communication could enhance 
the networking technologies (events.afcea, 2022). 
 It has been found that China has prioritized their 
research on quantum technology in their development plans. 
The quantum communication and the quantum computing are 
the main research initiatives of China. In addition, it is being 
found that China is already a leader in the development of 
quantum technology and the year 2016 the country launched 
the first quantum satellite of the world to provide “global 
quantum encrypted communications capability.” In the year 
2017 China established the -first quantum-secured 
intercontinental video conference. Furthermore, it has been 
found that the development of quantum technology is Russia 
lags far behind of China and U.S and in December 2019, 
Russia announced their plan of investing $790 million in 
quantum research over the next 5 year. Russia also adopted a 
five-year Russian Quantum Technologies Roadmap (James, 
2013). 
D. The Implication or Outcome of emerging 
technologies in military organizations: 
The strategic stability of and the implication of emerging 
technologies in military organizations are difficult to predict, 
but not impossible as they are going to perform as many 
factors, which include the interaction among the emerging 
technologies, the process through which the emerging 
technologies will be integrated concepts of operation and 
existing military forces, the rate of advancement in technology 
in both U.S and its competitor nations and the extent to which 
the international law and the national policies will enable their 
integration, use and development. Furthermore, it has been 
found that there are several emerging technologies that are 
going to impact the future character of war. The enhancement 
and development in technologies like big data analytics, AI, 
and lethal autonomous weapon could remove or diminish the 
requirement of human operations. This in turn will help in 
enhancing the efficiencies of the military organizations with 
potential destabilization of consequences (Snyder, et al., 
2015).  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 Additionally, it has been found that effective 
interactions among these emerging technologies could also 
enhance the capabilities of the existing militaries with 
unforeseen consequences for strategic stability and 
warfighting. For example, if quantum computing could be 
paired with AI it will become enable of producing a more 
powerful process of Machine Learning, which will provide the 
potentiality to make improvements in target identification, 
image recognition and will also enable a more enhanced and 
sophisticated autonomous weapon. Likewise, AI could also be 
combined with the new 5G communication technologies for 
enabling virtual learning ad training environments or could be 
combined with biotechnology for enhancing robotic systems, 
or human cognition. However, this developments in the 
military organizations will require new and improved 
concepts of operation, tactics and strategies.   
Figure 4: Autonomous technology 
 Furthermore, it has been found that the enhancement 
in the use of blockchain technologies (along with the use of 
quantum technologies and Artificial Intelligence enables 
cyber bots) will increase the ability of the Military 
organizations to ensure trusted data and communication 
storage. The finding highlights that over the coming 20 years 
the volume of data is going to increase, as the internet 
connected device are growing exponentially. It is expected 
that by the year 2030 approximately 500 billion data will be 
interconnected and handing this amount of significant data 
will create difficulty for the companies. Therefore, the 
implementation of technologies like blockchain will help the 
organization in handing such big amount of data and run their 
operations smoothly. 
E. The expected and upcoming new IT technologies that 
could be used in military organization a possible 
change in military technology till 2040 : 
The author states that in the coming 20 years it is expected 
that the four overarching characteristics will mainly define the 
advancement in the military technologies. This includes 
intelligent – this technology would exploit the integrated 
Artificial Intelligence, symbiotic AI -human intelligence for 
providing disruptive application throughout technological 
spectrum, and knowledge-focused analytical capabilities. 
Distributed- this include employing ubiquitous and 
decentralized large-scale sensing, computation for achieving 
new disruptive military effects and storage. Interconnected- 
this would help in exploiting network of physical and virtual 
domain including the networks of autonomous agents, 
organizations, individuals and sensors, linked with the new 
distributed ledger technologies and encryption methods. 
Digital- this includes information and physical domains for 
supporting novel disruptive effects and digitally blend 
humans. It is been expected that the technologies with these 
features and characteristic will enhance the organizational 
effectiveness and Alliance operations by development of the 
knowledge and decision advantage. In addition, it has been 
found that the implementation of this technologies in the 
upcoming future will enhance effectiveness of the mesh 
capabilities throughout all the instruments of power and 
operational domains (Reding & Eaton, 2020). 
Figure 5: Science and Technology Trends 
 Moreover, studies show that there are eight highly 
interrelated science and technology areas that are considered 
as the significant strategic disruptor for the next 20 years. The 
defence minister approved the first seven EDTs in October 
2019; however, an eighth EDT is added for future 
development and consideration by STO. These Science and 
Technology areas are either undergoing rapid revolutionary 
development or are in the nascent stages of development. 
These EDT’s include Artificial Intelligence, Data, Quantum, 
Hypersonic, Space, Autonomy, Biotechnology and Materials. 
Additionally, the new emerging technologies in the military 
organizations are defined under three major categories; 
Emerging, Convergent and Disruptive. Emerging 
technologies are those scientific discoveries and technologies 
that are considered to reach the period of maturity by the year 
2020-2040 (James, 2013). However currently these 
technologies are not widely in use and are not the ones whose 
impact on security, Alliance defence, and enterprise function 
are not clear entirely. The convergent technologies are defined 
as the ones that have combination of various technologies and 
these combinations are made in novel manner for creating 
disruptive impact. Lastly, the disruptive technologies are 
defined as those scientific discoveries and technologies, that 
will have significant and revolutionary impact on the NATO 
defence, enterprise or security functions during the period of 
2020-2040. The intelligent technology will include 
knowledge analytics, humanistic intelligence and autonomy; 
The distributed technology will include the Ubiquitous 
sensing and edge computing, democratised science and 
technology, and decentralised production; The interconnected 
technology will include the trusted communication, and 
synergistic system; Lastly the digital technology will include 
the synthetic realities and digital twin (Reding & Eaton, 2020). 
 
III. THE DIFFERENT STRATEGIES AND FRAMEWORKS 
THROUGH WHICH LATEST IT TECHNOLOGIES COULD BE 
USED IN MILITARY ORGANIZATIONS:  
The implementation of IT technologies in Military 
organizations and a well-structured digital transformation plan 
is a significant business strategy. Thus, for implementing 
digital transformation plan successfully the military 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
organizations should start with proper road map that is guided 
by business outcomes and then they should pair their strategic 
plans and initiatives with the technology-related initiatives. 
The following strategic plan could be used by the military 
organization to implement the use of IT technologies: 
A. Establishing the goals and objectives of the 
organization: 
In every organization the implementation of digital 
transformation may look different because of available 
factors like the familiarity of the employees with technology, 
budget and the available resources. Thus, the goals and 
objectives may vary according to this. However, establishing 
business goals, needs and objectives at first helps in building 
an effective strategy and is first step toward implementing 
digital transformation. While establishing the goals and 
objective the military organizations should establish their 
new revenue models, adapt to change in the market 
dynamics, and accelerate the existing revenue models. This 
will help the organization to bridge the gaps and establish the 
foundation of digital transformation by defining business 
priorities and values.  
B. Focusing on the change in organizational culture:  
In the implementation of digital transformation cultural 
change comes automatically and it disrupts the workforce 
engagement and facilitates the rise of the new digital culture. 
Therefore, it is crucial for military organization to focus on 
cultural change and make sure that their workforce adopts to 
the change is culture smoothly. Hence for dealing smoothly 
with the cultural change and adopting the digital 
transformation the military organization should ensure that 
they explain the what, how and why process, establish a 
culture of innovation and collaboration, articulate the 
potential business outcomes and benefits and develops a 
team mindset among the workforce (Jupudi, 2022).  
Figure 6: Digital transformation in military organization 
C. Implementing the Information Technology wisely: 
In the implementation of digital transformation in 
military organization choosing the technology is a crucial 
step. The technology that should be implemented in digital 
transformation should fulfil the needs of the company and 
should align with the objectives and goals that was 
established earlier. Some of the efficient technologies that 
will help in successful digital transformation are the internet 
of things, cloud computing, machine learning, artificial 
intelligence, virtual reality or augmented reality and robotics. 
Further the new technologies should be implemented with 
improved operation, because if the internal process in not 
updated there is no point of implementation of new 
technologies.  
 
D. Creating partnership with experts: 
It is recommended to have partnership with firms that are 
expert in digital transformation, because implementing IT 
and digital transformation is a complicated task and if the 
organization is doing such organizational change for first 
time, then collaborating with expert firm is beneficial. The 
military organizations should also establish a particular 
research and development centre for strengthening their 
cyber security skills and should also strengthen their data and 
information by implementing blockchain and big data 
analytics. 
E.  Leaving the room for agility: 
Agility and effective planning is important for successful 
digital transformation in any organization, as this provides 
long-term sustainability and it also reduces the chances of 
failure. Therefore tracking, analysing and observing post-
implementation will help the military organization to identify 
the loopholes that block the progress, understand which 
strategy is working and which is not working and change the 
plan accordingly on the basis of feedbacks from the system 
and users. 
IV. DATA METHODOLOGY  
A. Research approach: 
In order to develop the research, report the deductive 
research method has been used. The adoption of the 
deductive research approach has helped in investing the 
research topic effectively, with aid of deductive approach the 
current and future trends of Information Technology in the 
Military organization has been investigated properly. This 
has helped in gathering relevant data about the research topic 
and also provided with better understanding about digital 
transformation in military organizations. 
B. Research design: 
The research paper has been developed by following the 
exploratory research design. This research design is chosen 
because it is considered to appropriate for developing reports 
on qualitative data and information. The research report is 
qualitative in nature and the information are collected from 
different articles and journals of various authors. 
C. Data collection method: 
In order to gather data and information of the research 
report the secondary method of data collection has been 
used. The researcher has gathered relevant and authentic data 
by analysis and researching different journals and articles 
thoroughly. The data and information collected for the study 
is non-numeric and is totally based on theoretical data. 
D. Data analysis method: 
The research report analysis the collected information and 
data using the thematic analysis method. The information 
gathered from the articles and journals are presented in the 
literature review section theme wise, and the analysis is done 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
as per that. Further the findings and discussion section in the 
report sheds light on the major findings of the study. 
V.  FINDINGS AND DISCUSSION 
The findings of the study highlights that most of the 
military organization are showing their interest in 
implementation and development of new technologies like 
Artificial Intelligence, Machine learning and autonomous 
technologies. The organizations are investing heavily on their 
research and development centre for developing these 
technologies and transforming their traditional military 
organizations into smart military organizations. It has also 
been found that now a days the military organizations are 
finding themselves in dynamic, complex and data-driven 
environments, and therefore to respond to these changes and 
to become adaptable and flexible to the new environment the 
military forces are investing huge amounts in Information 
Technology. The Military organization believes that 
implementing the new technologies will help them to become 
flexible and adapt to the changes quickly.   
 It has also been found that the rapid changes in these 
technologies are also increasing the malicious cyberthreats 
and are putting the military organizations at risk. The 
government and defence organizations have sensitive data and 
information that could leads to war or put any country with 
security risk, therefore it has become crucial for military 
organization to adopt proper strategies to strengthen their 
cyber security. The findings highlight that the U.S is having 
increased their budget of cybersecurity and they have 
understood the importance of developing a strong cyber 
security centre at their military organization. Further the 
findings show that the U.S, China and Russia are paying much 
attention in implementing the new and advanced technologies 
in their military organization, among this three countries U.S 
is the leading one in innovating and implementing Information 
Technology in DoD, China comes next to U.S and Russia is 
trying its best to maintain pace with these two countries. It has 
been found that U.S, China and Russia have already 
implemented the use of Artificial Intelligence in their military 
organizations and they are trying to develop it more. 
Additionally, it has been found that the countries are also 
focusing on implementing Quantum technology in their 
Military organization and in the year 2017 China established 
the -first quantum-secured intercontinental video conference. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
The information technology will drive the future battles, 
the military forces will continue their battle on sea, land, in 
space and in sky, but those who will have superiority on 
situational awareness and will be empowered by innovation in 
Artificial Intelligence, Virtual reality, edge computing and big 
data analytics will win the battles. The completion of the 
research report provides detailed knowledge about the 
importance of Information Technology and Digital 
Transformation of Military Organization in the modern world. 
The study sheds light on the need and requirements of the 
military organization to keep pace with the changing 
environment. The study shows that it has become crucial for 
nations and alliance to understand the readiness, potential 
impact and synergies that are associated with EDT. The 
Emerging Digital Technologies are expected to provide a 
significant impact both positive and negative on the military 
organizations over the coming 20 years (Reding & Eaton, 
2020). However, implementing these new technologies in the 
organization will raise many challenges, but facing these 
challenges effectively will help organization to successfully 
implement the digital transformation. The research report 
discusses about the potential strategies that could use by the 
military organization to implement digital transformation. The 
expansion of the use of autonomy, BDAA and AI will provide 
the organizations with greater accessibility to critically 
operate relevant information and data. The study also 
highlights that, in today’s time cybersecurity has become 
essential for accomplishing objectives and mission of an 
organization, thus the organization should not only rely on 
adopting new technologies rather they should also institute a 
culture of cybersecurity in their organization. If there is no 
shift in the culture of the organization then they might face 
challenge in adopting these technologies from budget 
perspective and employee perspective. Hence, the 
organization should focus on developing a change process that 
is smooth and easy to accept for the employees (Golden, 
2016).  
REFERENCES 
[1]  A. D. James, “Emerging technologies and military capability - 
ETH Z,” 2013. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.files.ethz.ch/isn/174574/Policy%20Brief-
Emerging%20Technologies%20and%20Military%20Capability.
pdf. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[2] “Chief information officer - U.S. department of defense,” Chief 
Information Officer - U.S. Department of Defense. [Online]. 
Available: https://dodcio.defense.gov/. [Accessed: 10-Dec-
2022].  
[3] D. Golden, “How military strategy can improve cyber response,” 
FCW, 26-Jan-2022. [Online]. Available: 
https://fcw.com/security/2016/07/how-military-strategy-can-
improve-cyber-response/220317/. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[4] D. Snyder, J. D. Powers, E. Bodine-Baron, B. Foz, L. Kendrick, 
and M. H. Powell, “Improving the Cybersecurity of U.S. Air 
Force Military Systems Throughout Their Life Cycles,” 2015. 
[Online]. Available: 
https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/ADA623202.pdf. [Accessed: 10-
Dec-2022].  
[5] “Defense Technical Information Center,” Page Redirection. 
[Online]. Available: 
https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/AD1131124.pdf. [Accessed: 10-
Dec-2022].  
[6] “Dni.gov,” 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.dni.gov/files/NCSC/documents/SafeguardingOurF
uture/FINAL_NCSC_Emerging%20Technologies_Factsheet_10
_22_2021.pdf. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[7] J. Fidock, “Organisational Structure and Information Technology 
(IT): Exploring the Implications of IT for Future Military 
Structures,” DEFENCE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
ORGANISATION EDINBURGH (AUSTRALIA) COMMAND 
AND CONTROL DIV., 2006. [Online]. Available: 
https://apps.dtic.mil/sti/pdfs/ADA458912.pdf. [Accessed: 10-
Dec-2022].  
[8] J. Ryseff, “How the military might expand its cyber skills,” 
RAND Corporation, 22-Apr-2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.rand.org/blog/2021/04/how-the-military-might-
expand-its-cyber-skills.html. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[9] K. M. Sayler, “Federation of American scientists,” 2022. 
[Online]. Available: https://sgp.fas.org/crs/natsec/R46458.pdf. 
[Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[10] P. F. Nunes, “The impact of new technologies in the Military 
Arena ... - air university,” 1999. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.airuniversity.af.edu/Portals/10/ASPJ/journals/Chro
nicles/nunes.pdf. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[11] S. Jupudy, “How to implement a digital transformation plan in 
five steps,” Bizjournals.com, 2022. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.bizjournals.com/dallas/news/2022/03/24/how-to-
implement-a-digital-transformation-plan-in-five-steps.html. 
[Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[12] T. Nurtin and M. Konaev, “Eye to eye in AI: Developing artificial 
intelligence for national security and defense,” Atlantic Council, 
07-Jun-2022. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/in-depth-research-
reports/report/eye-to-eye-in-ai/. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
[13] “U.S. Army Strategic Cyber Posture - events.afcea.org.” 
[Online]. Available: 
https://events.afcea.org/afceacyber22/Custom/Handout/Speaker
149820_Session9403_1.pdf. [Accessed: 10-Dec-2022].  
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.