A Blockchain Based Secure IoT Solution for Water Quality Management
978-1-6654-1224-7/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE 
A Blockchain Based Secure IoT Solution for Water 
Quality Management 
 
Nouf Alharbi  
College of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Taibah University 
Madina 42353, Saudi Arabia 
nmoharbi@taibahu.edu.sa 
Ahad Almotiry 
College of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Taibah University 
Madina 42353, Saudi Arabia 
flawlessahad@taibahu.edu.sa 
Arwa Althagafi 
College of Community,                 
Taibah University 
Madina 42353, Saudi Arabia 
amjohni@taibahu.edu.sa 
Shrooq Alhazmi 
College of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Taibah University 
Madina 42353, Saudi Arabia 
shrooqhaz@taibahu.edu.sa 
Omamah Alshomrani 
College of Computer Science and 
Engineering, Taibah University 
Madina 42353, Saudi Arabia 
omamaharif@taibahu.edu.sa 
Abstract— Water pollution is a major issue all over the world, 
and one of the great causes of water deterioration is industrial 
waste as the polluted water is being dumped into surface water 
such as seas, springs, and dams. Consequently, this will affect 
the whole planet, starting from destroying the agricultural crop 
up to the endangerment of humankind. There are plenty of 
industries all over Saudi Arabia, many of which are of a high 
category that generates dangerous fluids and other materials in 
their daily production activities. By discharging polluted 
components in water, the industry is considered to be violating 
the General Authority of Meteorology Environmental 
Protection (GAMEP)’s laws and regulations. It’s a 
revolutionary step to stop establishments and industries from 
contributing to water pollution. Currently, industries violating 
these laws are difficult to identify due to the manual nature of 
measuring industrial water tanks. This produces difficulties in 
pulling out a sample to measure. To tackle the aforementioned 
issue, a system has been proposed as it is not only detecting 
water pollution but will take action in order to prevent the 
continuation of water pollution. The integration between two 
technologies has been introduced in this system. First, IoT 
(internet of things) is used to measure water components in 
industrial tanks and detect any violation. Second, blockchain is 
applied to the appropriate penalty of the violating industry and 
maintain the transparency, integrity, and reliability of the 
violation records. The system will be capable of measuring 
water quality in real-time and facilitate the instant detection of 
any violations to carry out the appropriate penalty. An 
introductory experiment shows prominent results that can be 
used to decrease the number of water violation cases to save the 
planet and secure a promising future. 
 
 
Keywords— water quality, IoT, blockchain, violation, industry 
I. INTRODUCTION  
The expansion of water pollution is a major issue all over the 
world in all its resources, especially in surface water, where 
most of the drainage of industrial waste ends up. Wastewater 
can endanger nature and it can go as far as endangering 
mankind. The GAMEP in Saudi Arabia has discharged 448 
violations into the red sea water alone according to (GAMEP 
annual report 2018 [1]) due to the drainage of sewage water. 
From this perspective, we are proposing a system that 
integrates the use of IoT and blockchain technologies to solve 
the water pollution issue. 
 
Water pollution is one of the critical issues that haunt green 
globalization. According to (UN WWAP 2003[2]) two 
million tons of industrial and sewage water waste is being 
discharged into the world’s water every day. The impacts of 
this contaminated water include diseases, destruction of the 
ecosystem, and eutrophication that affects the aquatic life and 
the food chain. Governments are spending so much effort to 
monitor and manage the water pollution in their water 
resources. In the kingdom of Saudi Arabia, the oil and gas 
industries are consuming great amounts of water in their 
industrial activities. Consequently, insufficiency and failure 
of managing sewage causes chemical pollution which 
discharges carcinogens, toxic materials, and metals into the 
water. These industrial activities are monitored and 
controlled by the GAMEP. The GAMEP authority suffers 
from a lack of inspectors around all the regions in the 
kingdom. They also lack environmental laboratories to 
perform the necessary analysis. There is no proper system to 
accurately monitor all these violations in real-time to take 
proper reactions. 
 
To tackle all these issues, the proposed system will help 
tremendously in the following: 
• To control and restrict wastewater in industries 
based on GAMEP laws and regulations in Saudi 
Arabia. 
• To measure impure industrial tank’s water via 
sensors. 
• Transparency of sharing data to all concerned 
parties via blockchain. 
• To save time, effort and eliminating the manual 
work done by inspection campaigns. 
 
The scope mainly focuses on industrial tanks where the IoT 
sensors are going to be placed to detect any water pollution 
that may occur. All the data collected by the sensors is going 
to be transferred to a blockchain platform to ensure 
transparency, security, and data sharing. The main idea is to 
focus on the industrial waste that reaches the surface water. 
The system works based on the GAMEP in Saudi Arabia laws 
& regulations on industries that pollutes water. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
Nowadays we face many issues in our society that threaten 
our lives, most importantly, water pollution. There are 
20
21
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
gr
es
s o
f A
dv
an
ce
d 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
 a
nd
 E
ng
in
ee
rin
g 
(I
C
O
TE
N
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
12
24
-7
/2
1/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
O
TE
N
52
08
0.
20
21
.9
49
34
74
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
approximately 7630 industries all over Saudi Arabia and a 
large amount of those industries produce polluted water 
resulting from their daily production activities, like oil 
refineries, mine industries and so much more. This system 
has been developed to focus mainly on restricting industries 
from polluting the water and affecting marine life, 
agricultural crop, and human lives in general, and to save the 
planet from deterioration with the help of newly emerging 
technologies. The Internet of Things (IoT) provides the 
capability to measure water components in industries’ tanks 
to determine the level of pollution in the water and whether it 
violates the laws and regulation followed by GAMEP. If the 
industry is considered violated then the appropriate penalty 
will be determined, applied, and uploaded. Since IoT lacks 
security whilst the penalty is being transmitted, and this may 
jeopardize the authenticity and integrity of it, using 
blockchain will provide the right solution for this issue as it 
helps to record transactions that are highly secured thanks to 
its encrypted and decentralized nature. Merging these two 
technologies will result in a great and reliable system to use 
in determining and restricting the cause of water pollution. 
 
 
Many works have been proposed in the field of water 
pollution management. Starting with real-time water quality 
monitoring using the Internet of Things in SCADA [3], where 
they proposed a solution for detecting water pollution in real-
time supervisory control and data acquisition systems that 
capture temperature, color, and turbidity through global 
systems for mobile communication. The system is composed 
of three modules, a sensor module to capture input, a 
processing module that process the data that comes from the 
sensor module to monitor water conditions parameters sent 
on Arduino UNO microcontroller, and the last module is a 
communication module that is used to communicate between 
the two previous modules with the help of GPRS modem 
which connect Arduino microcontroller to the internet. For 
this work, the data is sent to a centralized SCADA server. 
Centralized systems are using client-server architecture 
where many clients are connected to one central server. 
Centralized systems have been facing many problems over 
time: 
• The highly dependent network connectivity which 
may cause system failure if the central server loses 
its network connection. 
• The inability of data backup. If the server fails, then 
there is no possible way to backup the data. 
• Difficult server maintenance. Since the data is only 
in one place when the server is down for 
maintenance, it can cause unavailable system 
problems. 
Using a centralized system is inefficient since the water data 
is required to be measured in real-time. The energy 
consumption of the sensors is one of this system’s challenges 
because it needs to operate 24/7. The proposed solution for 
the central system problem may be using blockchain as 
proposed in [4]. This work has given an overview of 
wastewater data collection, storing, and analyzing by creating 
a system that is open to all using Dissolved Oxygen, 
Temperature, TDS (Total Dissolved Solids), Turbidity, pH 
sensors. The transmission of the data will be using a (low-
power wide-area network) LPWAN. Then, it will be stored 
on the blockchain that offers the solution for trustless 
systems. The use of blockchain also provides quality-credit 
to the parties involved in the system. The approach describes 
the use of Arduino based on an open-source and easy-to-use 
technology; however, it lacks power efficiency and security. 
The future work includes technical requirements: developing 
a blockchain where the makers write, as it is a permission-
less Blockchain, the scalability of the system must be studied 
appropriately, and then stress tests need to be performed on 
the system to see how it reacts; creating smart contracts that 
execute an algorithm that maximize the profits of both 
players in the system. 
 
In Raspberry Pi-based smart sensing platform for drinking-
water quality monitoring system in [5] proposed a solution 
for detecting drinking water quality from various natural 
resources. The solution consists of a multi-sensor array 
(MSA).  The selection of the parameters is based on the 
guidelines of the Central Pollution and Control Board 
(CPCB). MSA works with a software platform. The fuzzy 
model in python for a real-time calculation, after the data 
collection is done using Python libraries. The calibration of 
the sensors is time-consuming and requires a specific amount 
of time to be stabilized. So, an auto-calibrations system may 
solve this problem. The proposed system for water quality 
monitoring system based on IoT is designed to solve the 
problem of monitoring the quality of water manually by 
developing a low-cost real-time system that consists of 
several IoT sensors that measure the water quality parameter 
such as: temperature, pH, turbidity, flow. Then, the data is 
going to be sent to a web server when there is a proper internet 
connection. There are several challenges to this approach, as 
follows: the volume of data is going to be huge and difficult 
to process since the data is not structured. Moreover, there is 
no useful report generated from the data being gathered from 
the sensors and no useful result except the detection of 
pollution. 
 
The proposed system in real-time, quality monitoring system 
for rivers [6] is focusing on remote monitoring of water 
(rivers and lakes), surveillance and notification system in real 
time. The system will measure water parameters based on 
international standards. Their objectives were to measure the 
quality of water, identify the degradation of water, identify 
major polluted areas, automation system, and guidelines and 
regulations, both for waste discharge and water usage. They 
also use solar power as a source of energy and finally send 
SMS messages to alert the authorities. They planned to design 
an efficient, cost effective, and a real time system to monitor 
the quality of water using a Wireless Sensor Network (WSN). 
They used different IoT sensors to measure different water 
parameters such as: temperature, pH, conductivity, dissolved 
oxygen, and turbidity. The data gathered from the sensors is 
placed in a server in the cloud via wireless channel and 
because of the structure of the data, the volume can increase 
over the time therefore they used Big Data Analytic 
applications to store and analyze data effectively. Then, the 
quality parameter is going to be evaluated and simulated for 
the finale step, where the SMS message is sent to authorized 
personnel to indicate the degree of pollution. One of the main 
issues faced this work is the security and privacy of data 
which can be solved using the Blockchain technique.  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
The proposed system in [7] for surface water pollution 
detection using IoT is based on World Health Organization 
(defines water quality metrics) and a prototype has been 
introduced. They gathered a sample of water measurements 
from different resources of water. Then, the data sent to 
cloud, both the data and water flow is monitored via app and 
dashboard uses IEEE protocol for sending data to cloud. 
Internet of things (IoT) in Marine environment Monitoring: 
A Review addressed the marine environment (ocean) [8]. 
They measure more parameters besides water quality. the 
devices take actions on receiving data after sending like: re-
positioning, raising the temperature etc. They also used LAN, 
wireless sensor network, or mobile communication network, 
depending on solar energy harvesting. 
 
Recently, wastewater from industries was discussed in [14]. 
They presented different case studies and explained the main 
requirements that are needed in order to incorporate the 
blockchain into wastewater management. Finally, they stated 
the direction of future works.  
 
All the reviewed works share the exact same thing as the 
proposed system, which is using different IoT sensors to 
monitor water quality. However, there is a lack of solutions 
when it comes to security and privacy of data. This 
distinguishes the proposed system, as we introduce the 
integration of the blockchain with IoT sensors to solve this 
shortcoming. 
 
 
Figure 1: Architectural Design of the proposed system 
III. PROPOSED SYSTEM 
Figure 1 shows an architectural design of the proposed 
system. As the proposed system is a web application platform 
that integrates both technologies IoT and Blockchain, this 
section starts by introducing the main tools that are used to 
develop the system in terms of the IoT, blockchain, and the 
web application platform. These include the languages, the 
integration strategies alongside some of the algorithms, cloud 
services, sensors, IDEs, and hardware setups conducted to 
design the proposed system. 
 
A. Internet of Things 
Arduino is a ready to use microcontroller board, primarily 
designed for quick adaptation to digital devices, software or 
the environment [11] as shown in Figure 2. In our case, it is 
used for reading water parameters. So, it acts as the 
transmitter that reads and translates sensor information 
whether it’s analog data or digital data to communicate with 
the water sensors. Arduino has many pins to connect sensors 
and other components through. These pins are divided into 
two types: digital pins that read and write single state value, 
or On/Off, which are used with the conductivity sensor, and 
analog pins that read range of values. It’s more used for 
valuable fine-grained control. These pins are used in the 
proposed system with the pH and the dissolved oxygen 
sensor. 
 
 
Figure 2: Arduino UNO board 
In the proposed system different sensors are used to measure 
the water parameters as follows: 
 
1– pH sensor: used to checks the behavior of the hydrogen 
ion in the water. There is the glass membrane at the end of a 
pH probe which allows the hydrogen ions from the water that 
is measured, to defuse into the glass’s outer layer, whereas 
the larger hydrogen ions stay in the water. At that moment, a 
very small current is produced by the variation of the 
hydrogen ions concentration that is outside the probe and 
inside the probe. The created current corresponds to the 
hydrogen ions in the measured water. The analog pH Sensor 
reads the voltage signal from the probe and converts it into 
pH value. The equation for converting the voltage signal into 
pH is: 
 
pH = (−5.6548 voltage)+15.509 
 
2 – Dissolved Oxygen sensor: the dissolved oxygen probe 
used here consists of an anode bathed in an electrolyte, PTFE 
membrane, and a cathode. The oxygen is spread through the 
probe’s membrane which will be at a constant rate with the 
help of membrane that will prevent the reaction from 
happening too fast. The oxygen will cross the membrane to 
the cathode where it will be reduced, and a small voltage is 
produced. If there are no oxygen molecules found, the probe 
will output 0 mV. The mV output will increase as the oxygen 
increases, and a unique voltage in the presence of oxygen will 
be produced from each probe. “0mV = 0” Oxygen is the only 
thing that is constant. 
 
3 – Conductivity sensor: the electrical conductivity probe 3 – 
Conductivity sensor: the electrical conductivity probe trials 
the electronical conductivity in a solution. It is frequently 
practiced in hydroponics, aquaculture, and freshwater 
schemes to keep under observation the quantity of nutrients, 
sodium chloride, or pollution in the water. Within the probe, 
two electrodes are placed across from one another, an AC 
voltage is put on the electrodes triggering cations to shift to 
the negatively charged electrode, whilst the anions shift to the 
positively electrode. The more free electrolyte the solution 
accommodates, the more the electrical conductivity is on an 
increase. The Conductivity circuit can be read with the 
following units: 
 
 
Conductivity = μS/cm 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Total dissolved solids = ppm 
Salinity = PSU (ppt) 0.00 – 42.00 
Specific gravity (sea water only) = 1.00 – 1.300 
 
Finally, The Arduino Integrated Development Environment 
(IDE), a cross-platform framework, is used to write and 
submit compatible programs to the Arduino board. 
 
 
Figure 3: Containers versus the traditional application [9] 
B. Blockchain 
Private blockchain’s biggest framework is Hyperledger 
Fabric, which is contributed by IBM, allowing enterprises to 
have their blockchain ledger without the need of money for 
miners to have stricter sharing of data on their network [12]. 
The fabric also allows the concept of subnetting the network, 
so not every node on the network can see the shared 
information ledger. These subnets are called channels. For the 
blockchain node members, Fabric makes it possible to be part 
of the network only if they were enrolled in the MSP -
Membership Service Provider-Fabric code that runs the 
ledger is based on Chaincode -smart contract – The smart 
contract is a set of coding rules for the main business process. 
In our case, we will specify it for the water measures to decide 
when the violations have occurred. 
 
The tools used in the system for the blockchain are as follow: 
• Convector: Instead of using the Hyperledger fabric 
framework directly, which is a little complicated and 
needs previous Go language, we are using 
Convector. Convector is composed of Fabric 
development tools, but it uses a JavaScript-based 
Development Framework [10]. It has the features of 
making, developing, programming, deploying, and 
testing permissioned blockchain smart contracts. 
• Hurley: Hurley is a development environment 
toolset for blockchain projects. It supports Fabric 
and other chain technologies [10]. In our case Hurly 
will act as the agent to create and manage the 
blockchain Fabric network. 
• Docker: Docker is an open-source containerization 
platform. Docker enables applications to be 
packaged in a container which is standardized 
executable components [13]. Those components are 
combined in the application source code with all of 
the libraries and configurations of the operating 
system and dependencies required to run code in any 
environment the application will be working on. 
Containers make it possible by replacing the 
operating system; process isolation, and 
virtualization in making applications with enabling 
multiple application components to share the 
resources of a single instance of an OS kernel the 
same way that machine virtualization enables many 
virtual machines (VMs) to share their resources. 
Containers deliver all of VM’s advantages such as 
isolation, good value with useful benefits, 
scalability, and availability as illustrated in Figure 3.  
In our case the blockchain private network would be 
contained inside a docker container as a hyper ledger fabric 
image. 
 
C. Web Development 
In the web development process, stack technology has 
been used. It is essentially a set of frameworks and tools used 
together to develop an overall integrated software. There are 
a variety of stack technologies used for web development, but 
this project has been developed by using the full MERN 
stack.  
The MERN stack is a web development framework. It 
contains multiple components that collectively help to build 
the software from the front end to the back-end and lastly to 
the database connection [14]. The components of the MERN 
stack as displays in Figure 4, help facilitate building the web 
application and can be summarized as follows: 
 
• MongoDB: No-SQL database to store data needed 
for the application and to display required data. 
Stores data as JSON documents in collection with 
dynamic schemas.  
• MongoDB Atlas: MongoDB Atlas is a cloud 
database which is completely managed. MongoDB 
Atlas is a cloud database which manages all the 
complexities of installing, maintaining, and 
deploying the applications on a specified cloud 
service platform. In this project, AWS service 
provider is used. Data in MongoDB is saved as 
JSON. 
• ExpressJs: Fast and minimal Node.js web 
application server (Backend) framework. Instead of 
straight coding on Node.js and resulting in lots of 
Node modules, Express makes it easy to integrate 
the backend code all in one place. 
• ReactJs: React is a JavaScript library which is used 
to create interfaces. Due to its ability to manage 
rapidly changing data, React is used for developing 
single-page applications. React creates developers 
code in JavasScript and build components for the 
UI.  
• NodeJs: Node.js offers a JavaScript framework that 
enables the developer to run their code on the server. 
The pack manager for Node, which is npm, grants 
loads of free package options like Node Modules to 
choose from and use in the project. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Figure 4: The main components of the MERN Stack 
IV. EXPEREMENTAL RESULTS 
This section demonstrates the framework experimental 
setup followed by the results of the conducted experiments.  
A. Experimental Setups: 
IoT hardware setup: When initializing the sensor readings to 
be captured through the Arduino serial monitor the first step 
always is setting the port which in our case is the 
‘cu.usbmodem143101’ port and the port is changeable 
according to the different device ports. After setting the port 
we set the baud rate which define the rate of decoding signals 
bits coming from Arduino. All the sensors are working on 
9600 baud rate which is the standard. The following present 
how the sensors’ data were captured:  
• Capturing conductivity sensor related parameters’ 
measurement: The conductivity sensor reads the 
four parameters which are Electrical Conductivity, 
Total Dissolved Solids, Salinity and Gravity for the 
sea water. 
 
Figure 5: pH readings and capturing Arduino code 
• Capturing pH measurement: The code in Figure 5 
specifies the pins that is connected to the Arduino 
hardware A0 analog pin. The code also specifies that 
each 5 minutes which equals 300000 milliseconds 
the received measurements from the sensor would 
be sent to the serial monitor by using the read_ph() 
method in the ph_grav library. 
 
 
Figure 6: Dissolved Oxygen readings and capturing Arduino code 
• Capturing Dissolved Oxygen measurement: The 
code in Figure 6 specifies the pins connected to the 
Arduino hardware which is A0 the analog pin. Like 
with dissolved oxygen, the specified duration to take 
readings is 5 minutes. 
Blockchain setup: For the blockchain part, as specified 
previously, the convector to fabric ledger is used. The 
concept of convector is based on defining chain codes, which 
are the smart contracts. The smart contracts would let us 
define and deploy GAMEP terms and rules. Whenever a new 
violation is detected, that means it has been passed through 
signed and verified terms via the self-executing contract. 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Blockchain project with the smart contracts 
In convector, we defined a model for each smart contract 
which holds all the parameters that is saved onto the ledger. 
The work on smart contract is industry-cc and violation-cc as 
seen in Figure 7. 
 
Controllers are defining the terms, and they control what goes 
into the ledger. In each term procedure’s controller, there are 
three main phases that must exist: 
 
1. 1- Validation phase, which decides on whether the 
term is valid or not, this is the ‘if statement’ in the 
coming code. 
2. 2- Modification phase, which tells what should be 
done after validating.  
3. 3- Store phase, which updates and saves the data to 
the ledger.  
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
We define GAME terms according to the existing sensors as 
the algorithm shown in Figure 8. 
 
 
Figure 8: Detecting violation in the smart contract 
 
Backend and Frontend setup: Collections were created for 
the project to store water measurements and information 
about industries and violations. In addition to storing data in 
the database, MongoDB Atlas has a service to chart stored 
collections called MongoDB Atlas Charts. At the backend, 
models are created to use mongoose and shape the MongoDB 
data. Whereas routes are created to connect the database with 
the backend and implement the CRUD operations. CRUD: 
Create, Read, Update and Delete on both the Violations and 
Industries collections. 
 
For the frontend, Components is used to allow divide the user 
interface into separate, recyclable parts, and to work in 
isolation of each part. For connecting all the components and 
tools that are programmed together, the web services 
RESTful API is used that lets the components communicate 
with each other by using HTTP requests and responses in 
order to send data as Jason objects. The API is created and 
managed by express as shown in Figure 9. 
 
 
 
Figure 9: Express API concept 
 
For the blockchain integration, convector Auto-generated 
API was used. It makes the smart contracts accessible through 
the HTTP request. The whole application integration phase is 
demonstrated in Figure 10. 
 
 
Figure 10: The System integration diagram 
B. Testing and Results: 
The system testing was supposed to be conducted on industry 
tanks in the industrial city of Medina, but due to the COVID-
19 pandemic, entrance was restricted. As a result, during this 
current situation, we were not able to execute the planned test. 
Instead, chemical solutions were utilized to test the water 
parameters in the lab with the proposed system, as shown in 
Figure 11 and 12. Each solution with different measurements 
were used. The testing experiment was conducted on 
different water sources, like drinking water, tap water, bottled 
water, and solution water. The readings of each parameter 
were tested in different settings, for examples when these 
readings exceeded the limit of the allowable value, or when 
they met the GAMPE. The chemical solutions were used for 
pH and conductivity with different measures. The values and 
readings of the testing are specified in Table 1. 
 
 
 
Figure 11: pH different testing solutions 
 
Figure 12: Conductivity different testing solutions 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Table 1: The pH testing results 
As shown in Table 1, the GAMPE standards for pH parameter 
range from 6.5 to 8.5 and when the detected value falls out 
this range, the violation is issued. It can be obviously noted 
that the smart sensor was successful in identifying the 
occurred violations. The same was measured for both 
dissolved Oxygen and conductivity parameters, as illustrated 
in Table 2 and 3. The violation was perfectly identified when 
it occurred from the captured values. However, the fault of 
some dissolved oxygen saturation values occurred due to the 
changes of the water movement and the deepness of the 
water, as well as the amount of the oxygen in the air.  
  
 
Table 2: The dissolved oxygen testing results 
 
Table 3: The Conductivity testing results 
Once the parameters of the industry tank were measured, they 
were uploaded to the web platform, and when the violation is 
detected, the smart contract for that industry is updated. The 
web application interface is designed to serve GAMPE 
authority (the admin) by providing them with useful visual 
charts that help in decision-making, industries information, 
and list of detected violations.  The admin can browse the list 
of the issued violations and approve their status as well as add 
the due fine based on their standards. Figure 13-15 show 
samples of the web platform interfaces.  After the overall 
system testing, we can ensure that the system component 
from IoT sensors to the application and blockchain are 
communicating and are integrated properly. The sensors 
capture the water measures in real time, and whenever a 
sensor capture measured, it is fired to the other components. 
Additionally, whenever there an exceeding value or violation, 
it captures it. The smart contracts verify it by the admin and 
save it permanently, so that no person can alter these records 
later. The system is integrated with the cloud database in 
order to provide the best analysis and user-friendly 
representation. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14: The industries information interface 
 
 
Figure 15: The violations list interface 
V. CONCLUSIN AND FUTURE WORKS 
In this paper, a new framework is proposed to solve a 
worldwide issue, i.e., facing the deterioration of all living 
creatures, and the best way is to start small with one of the 
largest sources causing water pollution, which are industries. 
The goal of this work is to detect water pollution in industrial 
discharge and evaluating whether it contains violated 
components against GAMPE standards through the use of 
Figure 13: The admin dashboard interface 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IoT sensors and blockchain to efficiently handle the security 
of violations. All of these components were integrated in a 
web application where the admin can access the platform to 
monitor the status of water measurements for registered 
industries and review the data related to water violation in 
easily-understood charts. It can be confidently said that most 
of our goals of detecting water pollution by IoT sensors, and 
sending violations in a secure manner through blockchain, 
and merging previous technologies into a web application, 
will solve all of the issues currently occurring in the Manuel 
process for GAMPE authority.  
 
VI. REFERENCES 
 
[1] GAMEP (2018). Annual Report 2018. Annual Report 2018.  
[2] WWAP, U. N. W. W. A. P. U. (2003). The World Water Development 
Report 1: Water for People, Water for Life. The World Water 
Development Reports. UNESCO: Paris, France. 
[3] Saravanan, K., Anusuya, E., Kumar, R., and Son, L. H. (2018). Real-
time water quality monitoring using internet of things in scada. 
Environmental Monitoring And Assessment, 190(9):556. 
[4] Zecchini, M., Chatzigiannakis, I., and Vitaletti, A. (2019). Data 
collection, storage and processing for water monitoring based on iot 
and blockchain technolo-gies. 
[5] Khatri, P., Gupta, K. K., and Gupta, R. K. (2019). Raspberry pi-based 
smart sensing platform for drinking-water quality monitoring system: 
a python framework approach. Drinking Water Engineering Science, 
12(1):31 – 37. 
[6] A. Sujaya DASGUPTA1, B. Madhukar .S. ZAMBARE1, C. N. K. A. 
D. (February 2019). Real-time water quality monitoring system for 
rivers. 
[7] Uferah Shafi1, Rafia Mumtaz2, H. A. A. M. Q. H. K. (October 2018). 
face water pollution detection using internet of things. 15th 
International Conference on Smart Cities: Improving Quality of Life 
Using ICT IoT (HONET-ICT). 
[8] Guobao Xu, Yanjun Shi, X. S. and Shen, W. (April 2019). Internet of 
things in marine environment monitoring: A review. MDPI. 
[9] Thymos cloud engineering (01 AUGUSTUS 2019). Kubernetes and 
openstack. Competing or complementing? 
[10] Mohammad Salah Uddin Chowdurya, Talha Bin Emranb (2019). Iot 
based real-time river water quality monitoring system. 
https://www.elsevier.com/en-xm, 155:8. 
[11] AuthorS. Gouthami, S. G. (December 2016). Internet of things enabled 
real time water quality monitoring system. Role of Big Data Analytics 
for Realizing Intelligent Water Networks. 
[12] Nakamoto, S. et al. (2008). Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash 
system.  
[13] Education, I. C. (6 January 2020). Docker. 
[14] S. Hakak, W. Z. Khan, G. A. Gilkar, N. Haider, M. Imran and M. S. 
Alkatheiri, "Industrial Wastewater Management using Blockchain 
Technology: Architecture, Requirements, and Future Directions," 
in IEEE Internet of Things Magazine, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 38-43, June 
2020, doi: 10.1109/IOTM.0001.1900092. 
 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:12:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
		2022-08-24T13:53:25-0400
	Preflight Ticket Signature