379
42. Hacking finance: experiments with algorithmic 
activism
Tuomo Alhojärvi
INTRODUCTION: A HACKING APPROACH
If finance feels like an opening, a possibility for most of us, it’s probably doing the job it’s supposed to do. 
(Economic Space Agency)
Finance is a word for trouble. Activists often recognize its strategic and game-changing 
potential. Yet, control over finance often feels so out of reach. Exploitative and unsustainable 
financialization seems to continue relatively uncontested at large (e.g. Lapavitsas 2014). The 
increasing socialization of risks and spread of debt are leading characteristics of our finan-
cialized present (e.g. Bryan and Rafferty 2014; Coppock 2013). Unnegotiable debt inhibits 
our possibilities by organizing the present through foreclosing the future. Exhaustion is its 
phenomenological effect, as ‘[c]apital accumulates on the promise of a future that always 
threatens not to come’ (Martin 2016, p. 178). As a global phenomenon operating on a scale of 
its own and through financial technologies of the most alienating and opaque kind, capitalist 
finance appears to be everywhere and nowhere at the same time. It determines but cannot be 
determined.
Many such representations of finance are, of course, also prime examples of a capitalocen-
tric economic discourse (Gibson-Graham 2006a) insofar as they always already know capital-
ist finance to be the game in town. Moreover, this coalesces with an inability to take seriously 
the diverse economies and necessary ambiguities haunting seemingly homogeneous capitalist 
sites. Through a pedagogics of impossibility, capitalocentrism reproduces a ‘scarcity of ways 
to enter the edifice of finance itself and explore what it might mean to reoccupy the scheme of 
credit and debt that it has produced’ (Martin 2015, p. 222). It is, then, the task of this chapter 
to participate in upsetting this scarcity of imagination that so often seems to accompany the 
notion of ‘finance’ and render most of us disenfranchised.
I concentrate on modes of activist organization that reformat seeming ‘heartlands’ of finan-
cialized capitalism as their playground. For Gibson-Graham (2006a, p. 138), ‘[t]he financial 
sector can be seen . . . as an opening in the body of capitalism, one that not only allows capital 
to seep out but that enables noncapitalism to invade’. This is an inspiring vision, but it also 
warrants the hard work of ‘reading for difference rather than dominance’ (Gibson-Graham 
2006b) in the very territories currently inhabited by seemingly monstrous and hyper-alienating 
forms of finance.
I am concerned here with a practice called financial hacking. Hacking means taking things 
apart and putting them together again in novel combinations to serve purposes not originally 
intended. I follow Brett Scott’s (2013, p. 8) understanding of hacking as a practice that ‘com-
bines an act of rebellion with an act of creative re-wiring’. Although it is common to associate 
hacking with so-called high technologies, Scott sees a ‘hacker ethos’ as associated with diverse 
practices from parkour, which hacks movement in public space, to DIY electronics, and from 
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
380 The handbook of diverse economies
slam poetry to capoeira as ‘movement hacking’ and to cross-dressers who ‘hack gender codes’ 
(Scott 2013, p. 9). To Scott, many hacker approaches combine elements of exploring systems 
and gaining access to them, jamming through seeking vulnerabilities and exposing them, and 
building by recombining elements to create something new.
Understood this way, hacking involves pedagogical, oppositional and reconstructive 
aspects. It is about learning the master’s tools in order to use them against mastery, but also 
about negotiation with the precarious, exhilarating and ephemeral space that opens between 
what is given and what can become possible. This space is here illustrated with two examples. 
The first space is the Robin Hood Cooperative (RHC) which is an ‘activist hedge fund’ for 
‘minor asset management’, established in Finland in 2012. The prime strategy of RHC has 
been to use an algorithmic tool to infiltrate and profit from the US stock exchange and to 
channel surpluses to cooperative members and to grassroots political and social projects. The 
second is the Economic Space Agency (ECSA) which is a start-up company that grew out of 
RHC and has its current headquarters in a garage in Oakland, California. ECSA concentrates 
on exploring and redesigning the newest technologies introduced by cryptocurrencies in order 
to reinvent economic space and organization.
What follows is not a technical summary, a detailed ethnography or a critical assessment 
of these projects’ prospects. Instead, I hope to illustrate problematics that might be pertinent 
to the challenges and promises of hacking finance more broadly. I will first provide a short 
description of both organizations and then draw three initial lessons that have to do with ethics, 
technology and space. Hacking operations illustrate, I argue, opportunities for exploring and 
learning from the seeming limits of the possible. This is a risky business, as it involves reach-
ing beyond the creation of local systems of desirable finance and assured tactics to draw from 
practices that are genuinely contentious.
REORGANIZING WITH ALGORITHMS
The activist organizations at stake here are outgrowths from artistic, organizational and the-
oretical experimentation in Finland. Their starting point is a drastic disillusionment with the 
present, in which people are increasingly tied to ubiquitous value-production (e.g. cognitive, 
affective and semiotic production that is irreducible to a clearly delineated space and time 
of ‘work’) while simultaneously being precariously remunerated and increasingly governed 
by constantly accumulating debt. As Akseli Virtanen, co-founder of RHC and ECSA, and 
current CEO of the latter, puts it: ‘Robin Hood is an attempt to think about the possibility of 
cooperation where it seems that distrust, suspicion, and exploitation of others has become the 
most important means of our survival’ (Piironen and Virtanen 2015, p. 100). Influenced by 
French post-structuralism and Italian post-operaismo or post-workerism, this strand of work 
seeks to understand and organize based on its analysis of changing value production in con-
temporary cognitive, affective or biopolitical capitalism (Virtanen 2006). According to this 
line of thinking, financialization has spread people into two categories: those who – through 
financial capital – have access to monetary income without the need for work, and those whose 
only entry point to money is through work and debt (i.e. the precariat). RHC and ECSA are 
shapeshifting explorations of how the latter group could use the former’s tools and drastically 
change the power dynamics – and, indeed, its conditions of existence.
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
Hacking finance: experiments with algorithmic activism 381
Since the early 2000s, finance researcher Sakari Virkki had been developing and testing 
an algorithm programmed to track and mimic the most successful investors in the US stock 
market. Virkki trained the programme – named Parasite – to replicate the moves of successful 
groups of investors, to follow them through highly complex data sets and to make invest-
ment suggestions based on this information (Virkki 2010, 2013). The idea is that investment 
decisions in a stock market do not necessarily follow any rational intentionality driven by the 
individual, but move largely through affective surges, like flocks of birds. These moves can, 
however, be discerned and replicated with clever enough algorithmic tools. In 2012, RHC was 
established as an organization to benefit from and further develop Parasite. Through invest-
ment suggestions based on tracking successful investors, the crux of the strategy was to ‘tax’ 
the surpluses of capitalist finance through replicating its moves for value production.
This parasitic strategy ‘produced a bad copy of a model that overturned the grounds on 
which any distinction between copy and model could stand’ (Robin Hood 2.0 2015, p. 2). RHC 
became a hedge fund, using algorithmic power to handle liquid assets and to leverage shift-
ing and flocking moods within the stock market. It entered Wall Street to perform its action 
inside, folding this presumably ultra-capitalist site into contact with a non-capitalist practice. 
Through this performance, RHC became in a sense fully complicit with ‘the system’. Yet, 
what distinguishes RHC from most other hedge funds is, first, its organizational form, namely 
a cooperative with a very low threshold for membership and a democratic decision-making 
structure, and, second, a political ethos explicitly geared to channelling profits to people and 
organizations typically barred off from such possibilities.
This algorithmic strategy proved successful for a couple of years. Money flowed into the 
cooperative, new members were acquired; the cooperative held mobile ‘offices’ around the 
globe to discuss and strategize, and the project’s online discussion forum (http:// discourse 
.robinhoodcoop .org) became attended by enthusiastic financial explorers. Although the assets 
under management of RHC remained small compared to conventional hedge funds, its fiscal 
success rate was remarkable. As Huffington Post wrote, ‘[i]f Virkki was managing the fund in 
the United States, it would have been ranked the third best-performing portfolio in the country 
in 2012’ (Foy 2013). After the first years of testing the methods and concentrating on organi-
zational development, in 2015 RHC arranged its first (and, so far, last) funding round for the 
‘irrigation of the commons’, in which cooperative members were able to nominate projects 
for potential funding. The cooperative decided to fund a self-managed space in Rio Janeiro, 
a Commons Transition collaboration between the Catalan Integral Cooperative and the P2P 
Foundation, and a media project and community organizing against extractivist gold mining 
in Northern Greece (Troncoso 2015). Although the sums were still small (in the order of a few 
thousand euros per project), RHC had thus managed to induce its own logic of reaping surplus 
from Wall Street and channelling it to non-capitalist projects (in addition to cooperative 
members). 
However successful at first, the hacking of financial algorithms began to show its limits in 
three years. The fiscal year of 2015–16 proved difficult for many hedge funds, and RHC was 
no exception. Due to complex issues affecting Parasite’s hunch, its performance faltered. This 
strengthened the interest within the cooperative to diversify investment strategies so as not 
only to rely on Parasite. Already before this faltering, in 2015, RHC had begun a project of 
reinventing itself as a version 2.0 (Robin Hood 2.0 2015). The strategy of being solely reliant 
on one algorithm was deemed too one-dimensional in the sense of not creating enough options 
for cooperative members, but also because of the modest amounts of surplus it had actually 
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
382 The handbook of diverse economies
managed to produce, leaving the members with some money (i.e. something to pay your bills 
with) but not capital (i.e. power to self-determine futures). Also, crucially, the organizational 
limits, inflexibility and spatial restrictions of the cooperative model were foregrounded (Robin 
Hood 2.0 2015, p. 3).
Two new strategies were introduced. First, the inner organization of RHC was to be rec-
reated so as to produce a marketplace within the cooperative for members to exchange their 
shares, to create more investment options and for testing out new organizational tools. Second, 
RHC was to be joined by a new organization, a start-up based in the USA, soon to be called 
the Economic Space Agency. The objective was to compartmentalize risks accruing from 
a new development phase, allow for more funding options for research and development, and 
to make sure RHC’s original idea and democratic ethos would not face difficulties (e.g. the 
possibility of co-optation with external funding involved).
Both of these new strategies are involved with the notoriously rapidly changing field of 
‘crypto economy’ (Bryan and Virtanen 2018) opened up by the newest developments in finan-
cial technology. More specifically, what is at stake is experimentation with the decentralized 
ledger or database technology called the blockchain, introduced in 2009 through the launch of 
the cryptocurrency Bitcoin. The blockchain is heralded by many as an innovation comparable 
to the internet or the joint stock company, because it allows for scalable systems without the 
need for an organizing and governing centre (Davidson et al. 2016; see also Chapter 25 on 
alternative currencies by North in this volume).
The recent operations of ECSA and RHC 2.0 exhibit two very different sides of this 
much-hyped technology. The potential ECSA sees in the blockchain is that it will revolution-
ize economic organization, since it allows for the creation of ‘economic spaces’ that are ‘pro-
tocols of economic, financial and social interaction, of value and risk creation, of sharing and 
distribution of resources’ (ECSA 2018, p. 235). The group is currently programming a basic 
architecture that would allow for the creation of and interoperability between heterogeneous 
economic spaces (each with its own rules, values, valuation metrics, organizational forms, 
etc.) while respecting their incommensurability. The goal is that any individual or group could 
use the technology to quickly set up its own economy not constrained by physical distance or 
(currently) enforceable governance. ECSA calls its proposal a ‘computing fabric’, enabling 
the spread of financial technology for ‘rendering the rich, heterogeneous multiverse of values 
socially and financially liquid’ (ECSA 2018, p. 240). Instead of liquidity in terms of a univer-
sal equivalent, money as we know it, this multiverse would be composed of a proliferation of 
self-governed and interoperable metrics.
The case of RHC 2.0 provides a counter-example that reminds us to stay vigilant when faced 
with technological promises. The organizational change launched in 2016 within the cooper-
ative had as its aim to create a closed market of shares and a platform for the development of 
new options and organizational forms. The basic first step was to transfer RHC’s member-
ship register onto the blockchain, that is, into a decentralized rather than centralized mode. 
However, this seemingly simple operation proved to be surprisingly complex and costly, and 
was burdened by technical bottlenecks. Through a series of misfortunes, this move has made 
the cooperative largely inoperative for around three years (e.g. with no possibility to add new 
members, no access to individual shares information). As of 2019, there seems to be again 
light at the end of the tunnel, but this experience underlines the vulnerability accompanying 
technological experimentation.
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
Hacking finance: experiments with algorithmic activism 383
FINANCIAL TROUBLES TO STAY WITH
Heretical Ethics
It remains to be seen what kind of effects these organizations will eventually yield. What kind 
of provisional lessons can, for now, be drawn from these explorations with algorithmic activ-
ism? I want to raise three issues. First, the question of ethics. Polemics have surrounded RHC’s 
operations for the whole time. While the need to create more sustainable and just alternatives 
to capitalist finance is a widely shared goal, RHC’s parasitic strategy is unconventional. In 
2014, in a colloquium in Finland, Virtanen presented Parasite’s heretical tactic of tuning into 
the rhythms of Wall Street in order to reap benefits. When he was questioned about the ethics 
of funding whatever investors venture into (including fossil fuels, arms trade, etc.), his answer 
was to explicitly distance RHC from ‘ethical’ investment: ‘We are the worst assholes of the 
precariat’ (Virtanen 2014, translated by Alhojarvi).
As he explains elsewhere, ‘[Robin Hood’s] stance is an ethic-free, moral-free territory 
where experimentation is the only guiding principle. Anything may be expected from us. 
There is no criterion for good or bad since there is no solid context to which such an evaluation 
could refer’ (Piironen and Virtanen 2015, pp. 102–3). This is not solely a relativistic argument, 
but instead the ‘ethic-free territory’ here is better understood as a space of operation freed from 
the constant production of subjectivity, expectations, potentiality and affects so central to cog-
nitive capitalism. To claim an ethic-free territory is to reclaim space for autonomous decisions, 
since ethics here is precisely about the production of desire and the cultivation of subjects that 
leniently produce value, take debt and do unsurprising activism.
Interestingly, this comes quite close to Gibson-Graham’s view, albeit with a symmetrically 
opposed vocabulary. Whereas for RHC ethics is a suspicious terrain because it is so capitalized, 
for Gibson-Graham (2008, p. 156) ethics means precisely a space of negotiation and decision 
as opposed to something ‘structural’ or something ‘good’. As they write, ‘[b]y opening the 
economy to ethical negotiation, we do not presume to fill it up with positive notions of desir-
able futures’ (Gibson-Graham 2008, p. 156). Instead, economy becomes an ‘ultimately unde-
cidable terrain’ in which, however, we need to negotiate, seeking simultaneously ‘an enlarged 
space of decision’ (Gibson-Graham 2006b, p. xxxiii). This kind of framing has very little to do 
with activism that seeks clean and uncompromised positions, and very much to do with appre-
ciating compromise and imperfect starting points as the grounds for negotiation and struggle.
Furthermore, if we take seriously the hypothesis that the production of subjectivity and 
ethics are precisely key grounds for the reproduction of capitalist organizations, then perhaps 
all self-evidently ‘good’ activist methods and coherent positions warrant our suspicion. The 
parasitic strategy of RHC is uncomfortable for sure. Reflecting on RHC’s tactics, Nelms 
(2016, p. 3) argues that the origins of modern finance are ‘deeply intertwined in histories of 
slavery and racial discrimination; it is an open question to what degree parasiting off financial 
systems today leaves such persistent forms of inequality and dispossession not only unchanged 
but unchallenged’. This remains – indefinitely – to be figured out.
But perhaps the opening of such questions is one of the most interesting aspects of a para-
sitic strategy in the first place, as it invites us to stay with an uncertainty about whether we end 
up challenging or benefiting ‘the host’ (Burton and Tam 2015). Despite the undecidability, 
decide we must. As one RHC member wrote in the discussion forum:
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
384 The handbook of diverse economies
[W]hile I strongly align myself with an ethics beyond good and evil . . . this doesn’t mean that we can 
just invest money in whatever and just claim that our post-ethics liberates us from ethical problems. It 
is a problem that we invest in all sorts of things, but the answer to the problem is elusive. I see Robin 
Hood as an approach to figure out an answer to the problem. Robin Hood is not the answer itself, it 
is a means not an end.
Technological Literacy
The second lesson concerns the tools and methods at stake in financial hacking. One of the 
difficulties in studying financial hacking stems from the sheer opacity of the technologies. 
In my case, there is no doubt a heft of personal incapacities involved, but this seems to be 
a shared experience with regards to the technologies of financial activism. To explore the mas-
ter’s tools is also to inherit some problematics from them. Financial technologies are key to 
reproducing capitalocentric discourses that consolidate an expert-driven ‘machine economy’ 
(Gibson-Graham et al. 2013), and they are intimately tied to the production of feelings of 
incapacity, ignorance and inadequacy among those who find their lives determined by finance 
but find no access to finance as an ensemble of tools for self-determination.
Admittedly, part of the explicit purpose of RHC and ECSA is centred on challenging 
divides between experts and non-experts. Both projects strive to democratize finance and 
financial technologies, which necessarily means democratizing also the knowledge production 
and distributions of labour (Suoranta and Vadén 2008). This means that pedagogical issues – 
barriers to intellectual and practical emancipation – need to be at the core of financial hacking. 
As Virtanen (Piironen and Virtanen 2015, p. 95) argues, ‘[b]y taking something sacred, which 
we are not allowed to touch or which only the priests can touch and understand . . . we are 
returning it to common use and play’. This project entails not only singular explorations, and 
what Scott (2013) calls ‘experiential learning’, but also an accumulation, testing and develop-
ment of richer knowledge about finance as possibility: ‘Like deeper “digital literacy”, we need 
rich “economic literacy”’ (ECSA 2016). 
However, financial technologies often push back against efforts of democratization. There 
is a mismatch between the ethos of democratizing finance – including its knowledges, sites 
and agencies – and a practice that remains exclusive in terms of intersecting forms of ability, 
gender, accessibility, knowledge, etc. In the case of RHC, there are plenty of examples of this 
friction. The irony of a group of university professors and PhDs ‘democratizing’ finance, and 
speaking for/as ‘the precariat’, has not escaped its analysts (e.g. Foy 2013). Although core 
actors have undergone remarkable efforts to explain how RHC and its algorithmic operations 
work, different stages of confusion have often surrounded the debates at the RHC’s discussion 
forum and Annual General Meetings.
It may then be necessary to concentrate on how inherited forms of hierarchies and exclusive 
expertise may be reiterated against our best intentions. Furthermore, it might be worth looking 
at how the economic literacy promoted by these projects is able to connect to and foster other 
knowledges, ones practised very often by people disenfranchised by all that comes along 
high-tech. My sense is that we also need to question the capitalocentric framing that accom-
panies so many ‘alt.economy’ (Nelms 2016) projects and that posits them as immanent ‘solu-
tions’ while setting up a wider canvas of hegemonic and historical capitalist financialization 
or ‘monoeconomy’ (ECSA 2018, p. 236). Insofar as financial technologies and discourses are 
marked by capitalocentric characteristics (in the sense of being disenfranchising, and offering 
pre-limited and hierarchically differentiated access for interventions and learning) better 
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
Hacking finance: experiments with algorithmic activism 385
prospects for alliances might be found through strategies of reading for difference rather than 
dominance.
Twisted Spaces
The third lesson concerns economic spaces. I see in RHC and ECSA two distinct ways of 
creating economic spaces. The parasitic algorithmic strategy of RHC emerged simultaneously 
with Occupy Wall Street, and it has sometimes been framed as a continuation of Occupy by 
other means. Not only a discursive ‘reframing’ of finance as a landscape full of potentiality, 
RHC has managed to enter the space notorious for its exclusivity and to fold it into a project 
operating for specific non-capitalist purposes. Although troubled by financial, technical as 
well as social obstacles, as we have seen, RHC’s parasitic strategy has managed to reformulate 
and practise finance as an unforeseen opening. Moreover, through funding rounds, grassroots 
projects have received an opportunity to benefit from the semiotic value production of Wall 
Street. Instead of reproducing the typical image of capitalist finance as a self-controlled sphere 
– or bubble – that determines but cannot be determined (at least not by someone like me), RHC 
has burst this bubble in practice and related together capitalist and non-capitalist spaces in an 
exhilarating sphere of potentiality. It thus provides one provisional answer to Gibson-Graham’s 
(2006a, p. 138) question: ‘How might we confront the economic “unthinkable”, engendering 
a vision of the global economy as penetrable by noncapitalist economic forms?’
In contrast, ECSA has adopted a spatial discourse to describe its efforts to redesign 
crypto-technologies for creating ‘n-dimensional programmable and vibratory organizations’ 
(ECSA 2018, p. 236). If Parasite is a topological folding of capitalist and non-capitalist 
spaces, then ECSA is an effort to explore other dimensions that the newest financial technolo-
gies might render possible – if hacked appropriately. These technologies are ‘synthetic, plastic, 
moldable, filled with topological capacities which are in effect just waiting for someone to 
start reengineering them for the production of a very different economic space’ (ECSA 2016). 
This type of financial hacking draws our attention to the crucial role that technologies have 
in creating possibilities for scalability and connectivity. The relations within any diverse 
economy are always also mediated by technologies, and these media perform and enable 
different kinds of relational economic spaces. If we are to think financial spaces outside the 
‘binary frame’ of global vs. local (Gibson-Graham 2002), experimenting with such financial 
technologies might make sense.
Both projects are still in development and their next steps and eventual effects are still to be 
actualized. Whereas RHC is now humbly picking up its pieces to go forward again, ECSA on 
the other hand surrounds itself with hype, not holding back its ambitions: ‘Just as the internet 
fundamentally changed communication . . . ECSA will transform finance, potentially enabling 
hundreds of millions of people to author economic spaces and control their financial relations’ 
(ECSA 2018, p. 238). We might want to digest such statements with care, noting the crucial 
role that hype and grandiose statements have within the crypto-economy and financial technol-
ogy more generally to allure attention, affective energy and, quite simply, capital. As RHC’s 
and ECSA’s own theoretical background underlines so clearly, in an age of semiotic inflation 
and constant information overflow, the performance of success (as if on a stage) is a crucial 
precondition of possibility for any actual success.
Yet, there is something in the air. Something that seems like an ephemeral promise of more 
space to breathe, move and self-determine, against all the odds of capitalist financialization. 
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
386 The handbook of diverse economies
It almost feels like remembering the possibility of a future. Perhaps this is, in these foreclosed 
times, not the smallest achievement. As McKenzie Wark (2004, p. 178) ends the Hacker 
Manifesto: ‘There are other worlds and they are this one’.
REFERENCES
Bryan, D. and M. Rafferty (2014), ‘Financial derivatives as social policy beyond crisis’, Sociology, 48 
(5), 887–903.
Bryan, D. and A. Virtanen (2018), ‘What is a crypto economy?’, accessed 16 August 2018 at https:// 
medium .com/ econaut/ what -is -a -crypto -economy -155bdbc4ab1d.
Burton, J. and D. Tam (2015), ‘Towards a parasitic ethics’, Theory, Culture & Society, 33 (4), 103–25.
Coppock, S. (2013), ‘The everyday geographies of financialization: Impacts, subjects and alternatives’, 
Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society, 6, 479–500.
Davidson, S., P. De Filippi and J. Potts (2016), ‘Disrupting governance: The new institutional economics 
of distributed ledger technology’, accessed 28 February 2019 at https:// papers .ssrn .com/ sol3/ papers 
.cfm ?abstract _id = 2811995.
Economic Space Agency (ECSA) (2016), ‘Economic space’, accessed 16 August 2018 at https:// medium 
.com/ economic -spacing/ economic -space -c87f41eb3b59.
Economic Space Agency (ECSA) (2018), ‘On intensive self-issuance: Economic Space Agency and the 
space platform’, in I. Gloerich, G. Lovink and P. de Vries (eds), MoneyLab Reader 2: Overcoming the 
Hype, Amsterdam: Institute of Network Cultures, pp. 233–42.
Foy, S. (2013), ‘21st century Robin Hood introduces altruism to investment banking’, Huffington Post 
blog, 6 December, accessed 16 August 2018 at https:// www .huffingtonpost .com/ student -reporter/ 21st 
-century -robin -hood -i _b _3639926 .html ?guccounter = 1.
Gibson-Graham, J.K. (2002), ‘Beyond global vs. local: Economic politics outside the binary frame’, in 
A. Herod and M.W. Wright (eds), Geographies of Power: Placing Scale, Malden, MA: Blackwell 
Publishers, pp. 25–60.
Gibson-Graham, J.K. (2006a), The End of Capitalism (As We Knew It): A Feminist Critique of Political 
Economy, Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press.
Gibson-Graham, J.K. (2006b), A Postcapitalist Politics, Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota 
Press.
Gibson-Graham, J.K. (2008), ‘Other economies are already here! Response to commentaries on 
A Postcapitalist Politics’, Emotion, Space and Society, 1, 155–8.
Gibson-Graham, J.K., J. Cameron and S. Healy (2013), Take Back the Economy. An Ethical Guide for 
Transforming Our Communities, Minneapolis, MN: University of Minnesota Press.
Lapavitsas, C. (2014), Profiting without Producing: How Finance Exploits Us All, London: Verso.
Martin, R. (2015), Knowledge LTD: Toward a Social Logic of the Derivative, Philadelphia: Temple 
University Press.
Martin, R. (2016), ‘From the critique of political economy to the critique of finance’, in B. Lee and 
R. Martin (eds), Derivatives and the Wealth of Societies, Chicago, IL: University of Chicago Press, 
pp. 174–96.
Nelms, T.C. (2016), ‘alt.economy: strategies, tensions, challenges’, Journal of Cultural Economy, 9 (5), 
507–12.
Piironen, P. and A. Virtanen (2015), ‘Democratizing the power of finance: A discussion about Robin 
Hood Asset Management Cooperative with founder Akseli Virtanen’, in G. Lovink, N. Tkacz and 
P. de Vries (eds), MoneyLab Reader: An Intervention in Digital Economy, Amsterdam: Institute of 
Network Cultures, pp. 93–103.
Robin Hood 2.0 (2015), ‘Equity, Options, Assemblage. Robin Hood 2.0’, Grey Paper, May 2015, 
accessed 16 August 2018 at http:// www .futureartbase .org/ wp -content/ uploads/ 2015/ 04/ Robin -Hood 
.Grey -Paper -April -2015 .pdf.
Scott, B. (2013), The Heretic’s Guide to Global Finance: Hacking the Future of Money, London: Pluto 
Press.
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong
Hacking finance: experiments with algorithmic activism 387
Suoranta, J. and T. Vadén, T. (2008), WIKIWORLD: Political Economy of Digital Literacy and the 
Promise of Participatory Media, Finland: Paulo Freire Research Centre and Open Source Research 
Group, University of Tampere.
Troncoso, S. (2015), ‘Robin Hood Coop funds 3 commons building projects’, P2P Foundation blog, 
6 October, accessed 16 August 2018 at https:// blog .p2pfoundation .net/ robin -hood -coop -funds -3 
-commons -building -projects/ 2015/ 10/ 06.
Virkki, S. (2010), ‘Methods, Systems and Program Products for Market Analysis’, Granted US Patent, 
US 7835968 B1.
Virkki, S. (2013), ‘Methods, Systems and Program Products for Market Analysis’, Granted US Patent 
US 8484118 B1.
Virtanen, A. (2006), Biopoliittisen Talouden Kritiikki, Helsinki: Tutkijaliitto.
Virtanen, A. (2014), Presentation at Talouden Uudet Muodot colloquium, University of Jyväskylä, 
Finland, 10 April.
Wark, M. (2004), A Hacker Manifesto, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
Tuomo Alhojärvi - 9781788119962
Downloaded from PubFactory at 04/17/2023 04:38:37AM
via City University of Hong Kong