International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE)
International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE) 
ISSN: 2277-3878, Volume-8, Issue-2S11, September 2019 
3512 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
 
Abstract:  The current paper is focused on its security issues 
with its prospective applications for educational applications and 
explored how blockchain Technology can be used to solve some 
education problems.Blockchain Technology can be integrated 
into multiple areas like cryptocurrencies,smart contract 
,Bank,Blockcahin with video games,finance,judiciary , commerce 
and IOT.Blockchain Technology has already changed peoples 
lifestyle in many areas due to its great influence. 
In this paper the Three types of Blockchain engineering 
1.0,2.0,3.0 with its protocol stack layer working ,its advantages 
and applications are checked .Along with different platforms on 
which Blokchain is running with its features is highlighted and 
evolution phases in Blockchain .This paper aim is to test amenities 
of security,related to the Blockchain and need of innovation of 
Blockchain. 
 
Index Terms: Blockchain-Trust, Immutable, security 
,services, EducationTechnology . 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A block chain is essentially a block of chain with growing list 
of records referred to as blocks that are joined with 
cryptography. Each block chain contains a hash(i.e a special 
category of hash perform that has bound properties that are 
utilized in cryptography)of a previous block, a 
timestamp(keeping track of the creation and modification 
time of a document .Security i.e. nobody –not even the owners 
of the document ought to be able to modify it once it's been 
recorded only if the timestampers integrity is rarely 
compromised.Block chain was invented by santoshi 
Nakamoto in 2008 and it is implemented in 2009 to function 
the general public dealings ledger of the cryptocurrency 
(digital asset) bitcoin (cryptocurrency) a type of electronic 
money .Blockchain Technology is decentralized(i.e peer to 
peer).It consists a world network of computers, uses 
blockchain technology to put together and manage the 
information that records each bitcoin dealings and managed 
by its network.It has been thought of as a part of the reality 
technological revolution since the invention of stream engine 
,electricity Technology (chung and Kim 2016, Schwab 2017). 
Fig Below shows traditional and Blockchain N/w 
 
 
Revised Manuscript Received on 10, September 2019. 
* Correspondence Author 
 Miss Ammbika Vamanrao Mittapally, Computer Science And 
Enggineering, Doctoral Research Scholar –CSE,Koneeru Lakshmaiah 
Education Foundation(KLEF) ,Vaddeswaram, Guntur, Andhra 
Pradesh-522502, India. 
D.S.Rao,Associate Professor,Computer Scienceand 
Enggineering,Associate Dean(P & D), ,Koneeru Lakshmaiah Education 
Foundation(KLEF) ,Vaddeswaram,Guntur District, Andhra 
Pradesh-522502, India. 
 
 
Fig 1:Traditional Centralized Block chain Network 
Fig 2: Blockchain Network for Peer –to-Peer Technology 
In this paper ,we will have a fast study 
regarding what's blockchain in section 2, then we will discuss 
regarding security problems associated with blockchain 
technology in section 3, at the end ,we shall mention the 
services provided by blockchain technology section 4, 
explored however blockchain technology are often employed 
in education system, the paper is all over in section [5].  
II. DIFFERENT PHASES AND GENERATIONS OF 
BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY 
For convenience and relying upon new inventions ,the new 
quite activity alongside its existing activities within the 
Blockchain generations categorized into 3 stages. 
Blockchain one.0, Blockchain a pair of.0, Blockchain 
three.0.[1,5,6] 
Blockchain one.0-Digital currency : which is expounded to 
cryptocurrencies in applications associated to money, like 
exchange currency, transfer currency, digital payments 
systems.It works for Peer –to-Peer cash and Peer-to-Peer 
payments[1,5,6]. 
Blockchain a pair of.0-Digital Economic: which is related 
to economic market applications victimization the Blockchain 
that are intensive than easy money transactions, stock, 
exchange, bonds, titles, smart property, sensible contracts, 
loans and mortgages[3]. 
 
Block-Chain Technology -Security, Platforms  
Ammbika V M, D.S Rao  
 
Block-Chain Technology -Security, Platforms  
3513 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
 
Blockchain three.0-Digital Application: for society which 
might be used on the far side currency, finance and 
markets-specifically in governments sectors, health, science, 
literacy, culture and art ,identity, education, public product, 
communication[8]. . 
Block chain Technology stack additionally known as as 3 Tier 
Blockchain Technology one.0: 
Bitcoin-Virtual currency, stack of protocols,Blockchain 
Technology are 3 layers that are still in development part 
.Communication among completely different layers in 
Blockchain Technology is Full duplex i.e 2 approach 
communication i.e causation and receiving of knowledge 
takes place in each direction. Firstly, information is 
distributed from Blockchain Technology to stack of 
protocols(which consists of some set of rules and rules for 
communication i.e criteria)it works with communication 
protocols like TCP/IP-Transport protocols-Middle 
layer.Middle layer will 2 approach communication with 
Bitcoin –Virtual Currency for transmission and reception of 
knowledge blocks[8] 
The Bitcoin may be employed in 3 alternative ways. 
 
Fig 3: Communication among different layers in Blockchain 
Technology 
 
Fig 4: Blockchain Technology Stack Model in Blockchain 1.0 
Bitcoin is favorite and really wide used crypto currencies. 
Different layers in Bitcoin stack-Blockchain Technology. 
A:Blockchain works on the idea of Peer-to-peer Technology 
that include clear ledger the info file that is accessible on all 
Blocknode in network, altered by miners, administered by all 
block nodes and handled by nobody[6]. 
B:The second layer –middle tier of the stack protocol –which 
include software package with some rules and rules used for 
cash transfer and information is updated on Blockchain 
ledger.It include TCP/IP-Transport layer for transmission and 
reception of knowledge on net victimization google chrome, 
Netscape etc[8]. 
The Third Tier-top layer –digi money that is Bitcoin virtual 
currency denoted as BTC or Btc- for group action and 
exchanges[9].It   works   victimization  the hash  
technology,digital signature, public key,Peer-to-Peer, 
Proof-of-work-which enable users to form Bitcoins.    
Alternative    Bitcoins    are    Ripple,    Litecoin, ,Dogecoin, 
NXT Peer-coin, alt_currencies[12]. 
Advantages of Biticon; 
Bitcoin: 
a:Name itself indicates that it works bit by bit[4]. 
b: Allows on-line purchase and on-line group action.  
c: Works a lot of versatile than master card. 
d: Price grows at regular intervals. 
e: Permits versatile non-reversible group action.  
f: It's like digital money group action. 
 
Fig 5: Bitcoin uses. 
In short any cryptocurrency structure/Model include:  
A: Blockchain 
B:Protocol  
C:Currency 
Mostly coin include currency & protocol with their own 
Blockchain or they execute victimization Bitcoin 
Blockchain[9]. 
For example, it additionally include 3 Tier design. 
 
Fig 6: Litecoin Technology with stack Model 
Blackchain a pair of 0. -digital Economy: 
which incorporates Bitcoin a pair of.0 that consists of 
–Protocols, sensible property,sensible contracts,  
 Dapps(decentralized Application)[7] 
,Dao (Decentralized Autonomous organizations)  
DACs-Decentralized autonomous firms. 
 
Stack protocol-consist of communications protocol, SMTP, 
FTP of Blockchain a pair of.0 that is employed for linking, 
causation email, transfer of file on web victimization Napster 
a pair of.0,  Facebook, WebBrowser3.0 
 
International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE) 
ISSN: 2277-3878, Volume-8, Issue-2S11, September 2019 
3514 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
 
Fig 7: Ripple Technology with stack Model 
This concept came into existence twenty two years past ,but 
recently it's uncombable with new rising technology 
platform.New Technology concerned in Blockchain a pair 
of.0 is sensible contracts[3]. they're principally software 
package applications that mechanically run the terms of 
contract.In sensible contract once bound condition is glad by 
the concerned parties during a written agreement agreement 
,then payments may be created as per the contract that is all 
clear[3]. 
Ethereum: in style platform that runs for sensible 
contracts[4]. 
Advantages of Ripple: 
A: it's open supply with distributed agreement ledger[4].  
B: Uses RippleNet-send cash globally 
C: Speed:High speed on demand settlement.  
D: value:Low operational cost. 
E: Certainty: Real-Time. 
Decentralized Application(Daap): 
Features: 
A: Application- open supply. 
B: Operate severally i.e no body dominant the bulk of its 
token. 
C: info File:Stored Public.  
D: Operations on File:Public  
E: Topology:Peer-to-Peer.  
 
Applications: 
 
Mostly application should manufacture tokens victimization 
commonplace algorithmic rule or set of criteria[10].These 
tokens are employed by several application. 
Market Response: 
Application adapts protocol in co-ordinance with its projected 
enhancements & market response[12].All changes are 
determined upon the agreement of its users. 
Projects employed in Dapps: Lazoz, Twister,Gems, Storj, 
OpenBazzar[12]. 
Blockchain 3.0-Digital Application-Digital  money. Mostly 
used for sensible cities as well as at numerous sectors like 
sensible governance, sensible quality, sensible living, the 
sensible use of natural resources, sensible on-line, sensible 
voters, sensible economy[9]. Blockchain Technology 
operates each internally and outwardly considering quality 
and amount characteristics. Blockchain 3.0 is wide used, in 
needed list for world wide and operates at minimum worth 
[10]. 
Blockchain Learning: 
A: Peer-to-Peer Learning 
B: Learning is financial gain supply. 
C: Moocs: large on-line Course detached world wide singly. 
D: Peer-to-Peer learning contracts. 
 Blockchain Health: 
Popular idea associated with digital health quality.Blockchain 
Health application may be used for Health connected 
applications[13]. 
Advantages: 
A: Health information may be recognized however 
information is unbroken non-public[13]. 
Platform: Blockchain Technology works on numerous 
platform 1: Ethereum 2: Hyperledger, coin or little contracts 
bound, it is based on various algorithmic, developing tools 
and programming languages. 
1: Ethereum: This supports decentralized platform that runs 
good contracts: applications that run precisely as programmed 
with no risk of down time,(fraud or third party interference). 
Ethereum permits developers to form markets, store registries 
of debts or guarantees.On a Blockchain anyone will setup a 
node that replicates the mandatory knowledge for all nodes to 
achieve an argument & be salaried by users and app 
developers[3].It allows user knowledge to stay non-public 
and app to be decentralized just like the web was expect to 
work. 
2: Hyperledger: Hyperledger is Associate in Nursing open 
supply cooperative effort created to advance cross-industry 
blockchain technologies[27]. It's a worldwide collaboration 
and it is hosted by The Linux Foundation, together with 
leaders in finance, banking, IoT[27 ], supply chain, 
manufacturing and technology. 
Table 1:Comparison of Ethereum and Hyperledger 
Sr no characteristic s Ethereum Hperledger 
1 Permission 
Restrictions 
Permission less Permissioned 
2 Restricted public 
access 
to data 
Public or private private 
3 Consensus Proof-of-work PBFT 
4 Scalability High Node 
–scalibility,Low 
performance-scal 
ability 
Low 
node-scalability, 
High 
performance-scal 
ability 
5 Centralized 
regulation(gov 
erance *) 
Medium core 
developer group,but 
EIP 
process 
Low,open-gevern 
ance model based on 
Linux Model 
6 Anonymity Pseudonymity,no 
encryption of 
transaction data 
Pseudonymity.en 
cryption of 
transaction data 
7 Native 
currency 
Yes,ether No 
 
Block-Chain Technology -Security, Platforms  
3515 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
 
8 scripting High 
possibility,Turin 
g-complete virtual 
machine,high-lev el 
language 
support(solidity) 
High 
possibility,Turin 
g-complete scripting 
of chaincode,high-l 
evel 
Go-language. 
III. EVOLUTION PHASES IN BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY: 
Recently Blockchain is categorized in 3 phases relying upon 
its economic criteria, political price, humanitarian and edges 
of system Bitcoin, scientific-(inventions)filed[2] .In 
economic and for political edges ,the coordination, database, 
irrevocability of transactions victimization blockchain 
technology are options house that might be as basic for any 
progress in society because the Magna Charta[6]. In this case, 
the blockchain will function the general public record 
repository for societies, as well as the register of all 
documents, events, actions, activities, establish and assess of 
it[7]. 
In this system, all property would become sensible 
property[2] .This becomes the identity of encryption every 
quality in blockchain with its distinctive identity.so as quality 
are copied controlled by, sold on the blockchain.This 
indicated that every one daily victimization assets like 
automotive, mobile, house land, shapes and alternative digital 
assets may be registered group action may be done on 
Blockchain[7].For example, we will say that world 
ever-changing potential of the Blockchain for its use in 
distinctive registering intellectual property(IP)[2]. 
Now a days ,the leading digital art trade provides digital 
services for in camera registering the small print of any digital 
gadgets or digital asset(like image ,file, anamnesis, hardware, 
CPU, camera, watch, software,Xerox machine) on the 
blockchain[1].The Blockchain might replaces all out there 
Intellectual property(IP)management systems. Mostly, it 
works victimization commonplace algorithmic rule that is run 
on a particular file or any file that is to be compressed into a 
brief sixty four character secure hash that isn't calculated 
backward[2].The hash values are added during a Blockchain 
group action, for timestamp price the Proof-of that digital 
quality price at that individual movement[2] . 
The hash price may be verified from the previous file(which is 
hold on in camera on the homeowners pc, not on the 
Blockchain )providing that maintaining the originality of the 
contents gift in it[7]. 
 
 SECURITY ISSUES 
Though the security issues of Blockchain innovation enables 
us to settle twofold spended problem, including its 
administrations. Blockchain innovation can be utilized in 
instruction framework to take care of a portion of its issues 
which is an essential point [15,16,17]. 
 The Blochchain Technology comprises five primary         
 charactersitics: 
 
1: Blockchain Decentralized: 
The primary component of blockchain innovation is it doesn't 
rely upon any third party for exchange i.e shared.The 
information can be recorded, stored, updated in 
distributively[15]. 
2 : Immutable:Any records are composed and put away for 
all time with no progressions except if anyone assumes 
responsibility for it[16]. 
 
Fig 8. Attributes of Blockchain 
 
3: Transparent: Blockchain can be tructed as a result of its 
straightforward nature and each block can be entered into 
it[17]. 
 
4: Persistency: Blocks with invalid transactions can be 
recognized, approved rapidly and invalid transactions are not 
conceded by genuine miners [15]. It is about difficult to erase 
or rollback transactions, once they are incorporated into the 
Blockchain[17]. 
 
5: Trust: Block chain Technology is dependable and it offers 
secure activities like payments ,or issue of certificates, record 
keeping. Since the records are shared among a network of 
sealed nodes[15]. 
6: Timestamp: It is time of block created and measures of 
time spend in doing transactions [16]. 
 
Fig 9: Characteristics of Blockchain Technology. 
 
Security issues Related to blockchain innovation  
1: DNS ATTACKS: Sending peers wrong data [13]. 
2: Mempool Attacks: Flooding new blocks with transactions 
[14]. 
 
International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE) 
ISSN: 2277-3878, Volume-8, Issue-2S11, September 2019 
3516 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
3: Selfish Mining: Miners endeavoring to expand their prizes 
by keeping blocks private [15]. 
4: 51% attack: Someone achieves majority share in a system 
and misuses it [11, 13]. 
5: Forks:That can be brought about by sybil nodes or selfish 
mining[15]. 
6: Double spending attacks: Creating two transactions from 
the equivalent upsent transaction [11, 3, 12].. 
 
 
Fig 10 : Securities issues of Blockchain Technology. 
 
Why Blockchain innovation need to characterize security. 
 
There is no denying that Blockchain is every now and again 
depicted as an at last secure arrangement in numerous 
industries, starting from money transaction, ending with 
advertising automation. When the state of Michigan 
introduced a bill to punish controlling blockchain 
information, they made the primary legitimate endeavor to 
ensuring information put away and transmitted through 
conveyed frameworks. This legislation didn't simply show up 
out of nowhere thinking about the cryptographic money, it 
just appears to be consistent to take activities to lawfully 
punish these attempts. This prompts a question: If the 
innovation should be ensured legally, what do we mean by 
sparing that blockchain is secure? 
A few reasons why blockchain network needs a superior 
security. 
Reason #1: Decentralized systems won't be as secure as 
they appear. 
 
Robust case in favor of blockchain technology is that with 
copies of blockchain being unbroken on a cosmopolitan n/w, 
there is nobody week purpose for hackers to focus on such, 
theory would possibly work for smaller systems that don‟t 
suppose mining the maximum amount. If everybody will be 
part of the n/w, how will we check that the safety isn't in risk 
[2]. 
The answer here is often a permissioned system, where 
potential members are verified [3]. This but creates a lot of 
queries than answers, who is to blame of determining whether 
the participants area unit secure? Who deserves to possess 
that sort of power? 
Reason #2: Attacks on market places 
On December 2017, nice hash, one of the biggest Bitcoin 
market places got hacked, resulting in million in losses [6]. 
It raises a crucial issue. If blockchain operations are safety. 
Technically it was not the fault of the technology since it had 
been not Bitcoins vulnerability that created the attack 
potential. The weakness within the market place itself price a 
great deal to Bitcoins investors [7]. 
As blockchain gets much popular, so do third party 
marketplaces and distributors however not all of them area 
unit are safe [8]. They might not be as secure as users or 
investors would really like to think-&the Nice Hash attack 
simply evidenced it [8]. 
Reason #3 : Smart contracts will malfunction. 
If enforced right, smart contracts will really answer several of 
the present problems in current selling, sales, investment, and 
development method [18]. However, if the contract 
incorporates a tiny bug, it will place the signed parties in risk. 
In 2016, it happened with associate degree Ethereum contract, 
worth $ eighty million fortuitously; Ethereum community was 
ready to resolve the problem by making it look as nothing is 
going on [18]. Developers have written a replacement version 
of history wherever the attack was deleted.As nothing ever 
happened. However effective Ethereums community live was 
,its none the less arguable. If any transaction are often written 
this manner, couldn‟t it negatively impact the worth of 
cryptocurrency?[18] Such fast –and-dirty fixes would 
possibly solve a 1 time crisis however on a permanent 
resolution ,we need something a lot of clear and reliable[18]. 
Reason 4# : ”51” attack. 
Once the blockchain transaction is created ,miners who hold 
at least 50% of computing power got to verify the 
attack[11].If they did, the transaction will pass. Now imagine 
matters within which one person or a bunch of individuals 
may concentrate in their hands 51% of mining power[13]. 
This owner becomes the sport charger, acquiring prospects to 
pass transactions therewith same coin doubly, or as repeatedly 
as needed[11,13]. It breaks all the rules. which will never 
happen ,one may assume.In 2014, Ghash.io pool got near to 
dominant 51% of mining power that caused several miners to 
go away the pool and worry for the integrity of 
blockchain[11,13].51 systems attack appearance unrealistic 
as a result of cryptocurrency house owners learnt to right 
away notice abnormal additions to hash rate and neutralize 
them by adding a lot of power[11,13]. 
Zen cash has recently suffered the 51% attack & paid a great 
transaction for that[11,13]. 
Reason 5# : The size and complexness of a blockchain 
network. 
Tiny systems perpetually face nice possibilities of 51% attack. 
Since miners want less resources to execute it. Bigger n/w 
area unit safer in this regard however insecure in several 
others [14]. 
Let's take Bitcoin, for instance Growing quick, the n/w 
becomes significantly larger everyday & not every miner is 
totally tuned in to potential threats & technology weakness 
[14].By sharing scientific 
discipline keys-a mistake in skilled 
miners. Often make, they place 
 
Block-Chain Technology -Security, Platforms  
3517 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
 
themselves at risk-&compromise the complete system [ 21]. 
Running an enormous distributed system needs powerful n/w. 
If Network grows too quick, infrastructure will fail to support 
it[38]. 
In short, there area unit huge security problems that none the 
less got to be tackled [14]. Yet other is not any denial that 
blockchain is about as clear & reliable as technology ever 
gets.We can either defend our n/w‟s from being attacked by 
dominant hash power & cooperating with evidenced, 
third-party distributors or become explanation for associate 
degree attack. 
Despite of nice security problems, it conjointly has several 
various services, which can be enclosed in blockchain.We 
enumerate service provided by blockchain technology in 
education System. 
Blockchain as a service (Baas):using this customers can 
create cloud-based solutions, they can host & use their own 
blockchain apps, smart contracts & functions on the 
blockchain whereas the cloud-bases service supplier manages 
all the mandatory tasks and activities to stay the infrastructure 
agile. 
1: Intelligent Transportation systems (ITSC): 
Blockchain are often used to determine a secured ,trusted & 
decentralized system[22] . It's system, creating higher usage 
of its infrastructure and resources, especially effective for 
crowdsourcing technology. 
2: Trust-Free system: 
It‟s trust free systems supported blockchain technology 
promise to revolutionize interactions between peers that need 
high degrees of trust. Usually expedited by third party 
suppliers. Peer–to-Peer platforms for resource sharing 
represent often discusses field of application for “trust-free” 
blockchain technology. However, It is the trust between peers 
which plays an important role in nearly all sharing economy 
interactions [25]. 
3: Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT): 
It could be a info design that permits the keeping & sharing of 
records in distributed method, while guaranteeing its integrity 
through the employment of consensus-based validation 
protocols signatures[23]. In principle, DLT has the potential 
to scale back prices & increase the potency of securities 
settlement, the ultimate step of each security transaction. 
Blockchain Technology are often used to unravel some 
education systems drawback. 
The blockchain Technology is deeply interconnected with 
totally different foundations of society, education, culture, 
charity & even identity, government, economy [23]. In fourth 
coming back years Blockchain is associate degree intelligent 
digital mesh, which can connect individuals, devices, content 
& services [24].  
Education is domain wherever several national, international 
institutional analysis for integration the blockchain 
technology in attention-grabbing & innovative applications 
such as: proof-of-work[3], proof-of-stake[4], 
proof-of-learning[5], management of credentials & 
transcripts, management of student records[7], management 
of name & payments. 
Supported the blockchain property of serving as a 
decentralized, trust-free[6], immutable[7] store of every type 
of data or assets, a group of pioneering universities began to 
experiment & issue cryptographically signed, verifiable 
certificates on blockchain, which students will access or share 
with employers[8]. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
The simplest (& worst) half regarding blockchain security is 
its constant growth. As technology develops, it becomes a lot 
of enticing for hackers. The strikes rise higher & there is 
nothing we can do it.There continuously area unit growing to 
be new attack & new ways that to prevent them. But as 
technologies, blockchain extremely is the definition of 
security. 
Blockchain ends up in autonomous & free 
information handling, to support communication & 
education. Discipline is a fresh blockchain platform for comes 
within the instructional & recruiting spheres, aiming to give 
the transparency of labor confidentiality & reliability of data 
else by system participants. 
Blockchain Technology in education system are often used 
since its teaching & learning initiatives. 
REFERENCES 
1. KyleBurgessandJoeColangelo.The Promise of Bitcoinand the 
Blockchain.Consumers‟Research,2015 
2. MichaelCrosby,Nachiappan,PradhanPattanayak,SanjeevVerma,andVi
gneshKalyanaraman.Blockchaintechnology:Beyondbitcoin,http://scet.
berkeley.edu/wpcontent/uploads/blockchainpaper.pdf,2015. 
3. AnastasiaBarinovaandSergeyZapechnikov.Onthetechniquesandtoolsf
orprivacy-preservingsmartcontracts.Bezopasnostinformacionnyhtehn 
ology,2017(2),2017. 
4. YeGuoandChenLiang.Blockchainapplicationandoutlookinthebanking 
industry.Financial Innovation,2(1):24,20 
5. TylerMoore.Thepromiseandperilsofdigitalcurrencies.InternationalJour 
nalofCriticalInfrastructureProtection,6(34):147–149,2013 
6. ArvindNarayanan,JosephBonneau,EdwardFelten,AndrewMiller,andSt
evenGoldfeder.BitcoinCryptocurrencyTechnologies:AComprehensive 
Introduction.PrincetonUniversityPress,2016 
7. DonTapscott.TheDigitalEconomy:PromiseandPerilintheAgeofNetwor 
kedIntelligence:McGraw-Hill,1994. 
8. Arthur Gervais,Ghassan O. Karame, Karl W ü st,Vasileios Glykantzis, 
Hu bertRitzdorf,andSrdja Capkun.On the security and performance of 
proof of work blockchains. In Proceeding softhe 2016 ACMSIGSAC 
Conferenceon Computer and Communications Security 
,CCS‟16,pages3–16,NewYork,NY,USA,2016.ACM. 
9. JianjunSun,JiaqiYan,andKemZ.K.Zhang.Blockchain-basedshari 
ngservices:Whatblockchaintechnologycancontributetosmartcities.Fin 
ancialInnovation,2(1):26,2016. 
10. SarahUnderwood.BlockchainBeyondBitcoin.Commun.ACM,59(11): 
15–17,October2016. 
11. DannyBradbury.Theproblemwithbitcoin.ComputerFraud&Security,20 
13(11):5–8,2013. 
12. JenniferJ.Xu.Areblockchainsimmunetoallmaliciousattacks?FinancialI 
nnovation,2(1):25,2016. 
http://scet/
http://scet/
International Journal of Recent Technology and Engineering (IJRTE) 
ISSN: 2277-3878, Volume-8, Issue-2S11, September 2019 
3518 
Published By: 
Blue Eyes Intelligence Engineering 
& Sciences Publication  
Retrieval Number: B14310982S1119/2019©BEIESP 
DOI: 10.35940/ijrte.B1431.0982S1119 
 
13. NingShi.Anewproof-of-workmechanismforbitcoin. 
FinancialInnovation ,2(1):31,2016. 
14. Bitcoinwiki; 2015. Accessed: 24/3/2016. https://en.bitcoin.it. 
15. J. Garay, A. Kiayias, and N. Leonardos, The Bitcoin Backbone 
Protocol: Analysis and Applications, pp. 281–310, Springer Berlin 
Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2015. 
16. A. Gervais, G. O. Karame, V. Capkun, and S. Capkun, “Is bitcoin a 
decentralized currency?,” IEEE Security Privacy, vol. 12, pp. 54–60, 
May 2014. 
17. S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System, Feb. 
24, 2013. (http://bitcoin.org/ bitcoin.pdf) 
18. Einstein, A., B. Podolsky, and N. Rosen, 1935, “Can 
quantum-mechanical description of physical reality be considered 
complete?”, Phys. Rev. 47, 777- 
19. YuanfengCaiandDanZhu.Frauddetectionsforonlinebusinesses:aperspe 
ctive from block chain technology.Financial Innovation,2(1):20,2016 
20. J. Van den Hooff, M. F. Kaashoek, N. Zeldovich, "Versum: Verifiable 
computations over large public logs", Proceedings of the 2014 ACM 
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pp. 
1304-1316, 2014. 
21. J. Bruce, The mini-blockchain scheme, July 2014, [online] Available: 
http://cryptonite.info/files/mbc-scheme-rev3.pdf. 
22. Sean Rowan, Michael Clear, Meriel Huggard and Ciaran Mc Goldrick, 
“Securing vehicle to vehicle data sharing using blockchain through 
visible light and acoustic side-channels”, eprint arXiv:1704.02553, 
April,2017. 
23. A. Anjum, M. Sporny, A. SillBlockchain standards for compliance and 
trustIEEE Cloud Comput., 4 (4) (2017), pp. 84-90. 
24.  M Chung, J Kim, The internet information and technology 
research directions based on the fourth industrial revolution. KSII 
Trans. Internet Inf. Syst. 10(3), 1311–1320 (2016). 
25. M.S. Adam, M.H. Anisi, I. AliObject tracking sensor networks in smart 
cities: taxonomy, architecture, applications, research challenges and 
future directionsFuture Generat. Comput. Syst. (2017). 
26. Loi Luu, Duc-Hiep Chu, Hrishi Olickel, Prateek Saxena, and Aquinas 
Hobor. Making Smart Contracts Smarter. In Proceedings of the 2016 
ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications 
Security, CCS „16, pages 254–269, New York, NY, USA, 2016. ACM. 
27. Al-Hader M, Rodzi A, Sharif AR, Ahmad N (2009) Smart city 
components architicture, 2009 International Conference on 
Computational Intelligence, Modelling and Simulation, IEEE., pp 
93–97. 
AUTHORS PROFILE 
 
Ammbika V. M Completed Bachelor of 
Computer Science And Enggineering in 2005 
from Shivaji University with First Class and 
Distinction,Completed MTech in Computer 
Science and Enggineering from JNTU University 
with First Class and Distinction ,Doctoral 
Research Scholar in Computer Science And 
Enggineering from Koneru Lakshmaiah Education 
Foundation(KLEF),Vaddeswaram,Guntur District Andhra 
Pradesh-522502,India,,Published papers -1:”Security Challenges with cloud 
computing” in IJEST ,Volume 4,Issue 10,15 
oct.2015,2:”Computer Security with computer protection and network 
management” in IJESRT volume 5,Issue 6,05 june 2017,3:”Bigdata with 
Internet Of Things (IOT)” in IJEST volume 06,ISSUE 6,05 june 
2017,4:”Balancing Load using parallel. Computing and distributed 
computing”,in IJESRT volume 07,Issue 4,05 April 2018, 
membership-Member of Indian Institute of Engineers of India 
MIE-1538225,Member of ISTE –LM-123599  
 
 
D.S.Rao, Computer Science and Enggineering,Associate Dean(P & D), 
,Koneeru Lakshmaiah Education Foundation(KLEF) ,Vaddeswaram, 
Guntur District, Andhra Pradesh-522502, India. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
https://en.bitcoin.it/
http://bitcoin.org/
http://cryptonite.info/files/mbc-scheme-rev3.pdf
http://cryptonite.info/files/mbc-scheme-rev3.pdf