SBA-GT: A Secure Bandwidth Allocation Scheme with Game Theory for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios
SBA-GT: A Secure Bandwidth Allocation
Scheme with Game Theory
for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios
Yuyang Cheng1,2, Shiyuan Xu1,3, Yibo Cao1,4, Yunhua He1,5(B), and Ke Xiao1
1 School of Information Engineering, North China University of Technology, Beijing, China
heyunhua@ncut.edu.cn
2 Department of Electrical Engineering, The University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia
3 Department of Computer Science, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, Hong Kong
4 School of Cyberspace Security, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications,
Beijing, China
5 Institute of Information Engineering, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China
Abstract. Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) are widely utilized for wireless
communication services, promoting the emergence of promising UAV-assisted
vehicle networks. However, due to the ever-increasing traffic data and diversified
wireless service requirements of vehicles, there are also privacy issues caused by
fraud, which challenges the effective allocation of limited security bandwidth for
secure communications. In this article, to solve these two problems, we firstly
propose a secure bandwidth allocation scheme based on the game theory on the
Internet of Vehicles assisted by UAVs. Secondly, the proposed blockchain-based
system introduces an emerging consensusmechanism that can significantly reduce
the delay in exchanging information and protect data privacy. Furthermore, to allo-
cate the limited safe bandwidth, based on the real-time feedback of each UAV, we
design an optimal decision search algorithm based on gradient descent to achieve
Stackelberg equilibrium. Finally, the simulation results show the superiority of
improving the utility’s security bandwidth allocation scheme.
Keywords: Vehicular Ad-Hoc Network (VANET) · Bandwidth allocation ·
UAV · Game theory · Information security · Privacy protection
1 Introduction
With the rapid popularity of UAVs equipped with wireless transceivers, a promising
UAV-assisted vehicle network has been advocated to provide vehicles with ubiquitous
wireless communications [1, 2, 6, 7 14], . The traditional mobile network uses ground
base stations to adapt to the wireless access of vehicles [13, 15–18]. High data rate
wireless communication for drones. Therefore, the Internet ofVehicles composed of base
stations anddrones has becomeanewparadigm for the next generation of communication
networks.
Specifically, most current data management systems use a Proof-of-Work (PoW)
mechanism in blockchain systems [3]. However, the bandwidth allocation of secure
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
L. Wang et al. (Eds.): WASA 2022, LNCS 13472, pp. 356–364, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-19214-2_29
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-031-19214-2_29&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-19214-2_29
SBA-GT for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios 357
spectrum resources is essential for providing vehicles with satisfactory Quality-of-
Experience (QoE) wireless data services [4].
The Proof of Stake (PoS) mechanism has many advantages [5]. In a PoS-based
network, vehicles are essential for maintaining the operation and safety of the network.
Therefore, we propose amodel based on the Stackelberg game to jointlymaximize utility
and secure bandwidth allocation, and then design an optimal decision search algorithm
based on gradient descent to find Stackelberg equilibrium. Finally, simulations verify
the feasibility and effectiveness of the proposed scheme.
We propose a blockchain-based network and game-theoretic security bandwidth
allocation scheme. The contribution of this paper can be summarized as follows:
• We propose a secure bandwidth allocation scheme with game theory to provide se-
cure data services to vehicles in VANET, which jointly considers the cooperation and
competition between drones and vehicles.
• We develop a novel PoS-based framework for service management, including smart
contracts, enabling all vehicles to send feedback messages without any privacy leaks
and get safe bandwidth allocation.
• We design utility functions for vehicles and drones, and we utilize the Stackelberg
game to study the complex interaction between drones and vehicles.
• An optimal decision search algorithm based on gradient descent is designed to find
Stackelberg equilibrium. Finally, through simulation performance, we compare with
other methods to prove the superiority and effectiveness of our method.
2 Our Proposed Scheme
2.1 Network Model
As shown in Fig. 1, we consider a UAV-based VANET, consisting of a single ground
base station, a roadside unit, multiple drones, and vehicles.
The set of UAVs is represented as U = {1, 2, · · ·,U } and the bandwidth of the UAV
is B0. We apply the UAV-to-X communication protocol in the connections between
UAVs and the RSU. During the provision of wireless service, the serving UAV hovers
over the vehicles. In the time slot t, the location of the UAV u is denoted as lu(t) =
{xu(t), yu(t), zu(t)}, where z is the height of the UAV. Due to vehicles’ mobility, the
number of vehicles under each UAV varies over time. At the time slot t, the set of
vehicles under UAV u is denoted as Nt
u = {1, 2, · · ·, ntu, · · ·,Nt
u}. The location of the
vehicle ntu is lntu = {xntu , yntu , 0}. As such, the distance between UAV u and vehicles ntu
at a time slot t is given by
du,ntu(t) =
√
(xu(t) − xntu(t))
2 + (yu(t) − yntu(t))
2 + z2u (1)
We assume that the Line-of-Sight (LOS) chain-link dominates the channel between
the drone and each vehicle. Therefore, the channel gain from UAV u to vehicle ntu is
gu,ntu(t)(t) = g0(du,ntu(t))
−μ where g0 is the UAV-to-ground channel gain with the unit
358 Y. Cheng et al.
distance andμ is the path loss parameter of the LOS link. Then, the signal to interference
plus noise ratio (SINR) at the vehicle ntu is
βntu(t) = Pugu,ntu(t)(t)
σ 2 +
U∑
u′=1,u′ �=u
Pu′gu′,ntu(t)(t) + P0g0,ntu(t)
(2)
where Pu represents the transmission power from the UAV u to each vehicle and σ 2
denotes the white Gaussian noise power. P0 and g0,ntu(t) represents the power of each
vehicle and power gain from the base station to the vehicle. At the time slot t, the
bandwidth data rate from UAV is Rntu = log2(1 + βntu(t)).
Fig. 1. Network model Fig. 2. VANET system and UAV-assisted
system
2.2 Our Proposed UAV-Based VANET System
Our proposed UAV-assisted VANET system maximizes the efficiency of secure band-
width allocation and provides smart contracts in the storage server for protection. The
current VANET [12] system and the UAV assistance system elaborates in Fig. 2. The
process of management includes the following steps:
Step 1. The communication protocol between the base station and the RSU is stored in
the storage server as a smart contract, the program that defines the vehicle. The com-
munication protocol will be automatically executed when the conditions specified by
the smart contract are met. Step 2. When one vehicle desires the RSU for road traffic
information services, the vehicle inquires the RSU through UAV to receive information
about the service. Step 3. If the vehicle decides to enable the service, the request infor-
mation and verification information will hear the address sent to the smart contract by
the RSU. Step 4. Once successfully sent to the smart contract, the RSU will grant the
vehicles access to traffic information directly or through the UAV. Step 5. When one
vehicle finishes using the information service, RSU will send a data packet containing
the provided service to the smart contract address. Step 6. The smart contract will be
SBA-GT for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios 359
automatically calculated and sent to the base station. It also triggers the information
transmitted from the base station to the RSU.
2.3 The Secure Bandwidth Allocation System
To find the best bandwidth allocation for vehicles and drones. The utility of vehicles and
drones should be designed separately. Their utilities consist of the revenue from the sale
of secure bandwidth and the cost of providing wireless services. Therefore, the utility
function of UAV in the time slot is expressed as
Uu(Pu(t)) =
Nt
u∑
ntu
Pu(t)bntu(t)−
Nt
u∑
ntu=1
cu(t)bntu(t) (3)
Among them, Pu(t) is the security bandwidth price of the drone u cu(t) is the cost of
providing unit security bandwidth for the drone u and bntu(t) is the security bandwidth
obtained by the vehicle ntu in a time slot t. The utility of each vehicle consists of the
satisfaction of obtaining safe bandwidth and the cost of purchasing safe bandwidth from
the associated drone. γntu is the satisfaction parameter of the vehicle ntu, and R
′
ntu
(t) is the
data rate requirement of a vehicle ntu in the time slot t. Formally, the utility function of
a vehicle ntu in the time slot t is
Untu(bntu(t)) = γntu log(1 + Rntu(t)bntu(t)
R′
ntu
(t)
) − pu(t)bntu(t) (4)
2.4 Security Analysis of the Proposed Roaming System
By adopting the Ouroboros consensus mechanism, our roaming management system
can achieve a minimal data exchange delay compared with the current roaming system.
In particular, it takes about 20 s to add a block to the chain and 3 min to confirm the
transaction. Therefore, compared with traditional roaming fraud protection systems,
fraud attacks can be detected approximately 4 h earlier. In addition, the Ouroboros
consensusmechanism has been proven to resist multiple types of attacks, such as double-
spending attacks and grinding attacks [6].
Data authentication and unforgeability: Attackers cannot be used as a legitimate tool
to destroy the trust evaluation storage server because it cannot forge any vehicle to apply
for verification, and maliciously authorized vehicles are also problematic to destroy the
storage server since it is almost impossible to control most entities due to high costs.
Malicious attack: A group of malicious vehicles may produce unfair feedback to deal
with the security bandwidth allocation of the target vehicle. In our system, the UAV
iterative algorithm obtains the allocation, and thus the continuous feedback sent by the
malicious vehicle will not be effective.
360 Y. Cheng et al.
3 Game Theory Analysis
3.1 Game Modeling
In the Stackelberg game, the goal is to maximize their utility. Therefore, we define the
following two problems:
Problem 1.
max { Uu(pu(t)), pu(t)} ≥ 0,B0 ≥
Nt
u∑
ntu=1
bntu(t) (5)
The local condition means that the bandwidth price should be greater than or equal
to zero, and the amount of bandwidth allocated should be less than the owned by the
drone.
Problem 2.
max{Untm(bntm(t)), bntm(t)} ≥ 0 (6)
Among them, the conditionmeans that the amount of bandwidth obtained by vehicles
should be greater than zero.
Assumption 1: bntu(t)
′ and pu(t) are respectively the solutions of UAV ntu problem 2
and problem 1 in time slot t. Let bu(t) be the bandwidth demand vector of vehicles in the
coverage area of UAV u, and b−ntu,u(t)
′ be the vehicle bandwidth demand vector except
for vehicle ntu. We have these two inequalitiesUu(pu(t)′, bu(t)′) ≥ Uu(pu(t), bu(t)′) and
Untu(bntu(t)
′, b−ntu,u(t)
′, pu(t)′) ≥ Uu(bntu(t), b−ntu,u(t)
′, pu(t)′).
3.2 Follower Strategy
By solving problem 2, we obtain the optimal bandwidth purchase strategy for vehicles
according to the following theorem.
Theorem 1: Given the bandwidth price, the optimal bandwidth purchase strategy for
the UAV covered by the vehicle ntu at time t is
bntu(t)
′ = max(
αntu
pu(t)
−
R′
ntu
(t)
log(1 + γntu(t))
, 0) (7)
Proof : We need to know if the utility function has the extremum. The processing of
proof elaborates in Table 1.
Case 1: Low Bandwidth Price Regime. The low price situation corresponds to the sit-
uation where the bandwidth price provided by UAV u is not greater than
αntu
Rntu
(t)
R′
ntu
(t)
.
Therefore, the utility function Untu(bntu(t)) initially increases and then declines bntm(t).
The optimal bandwidth requirement at the time slot t can be obtained by solving
∂Untu
(bntu
(t))
∂(bntu
(t)) = 0. Therefore, within the coverage of UAV u in a time slot t, the optimal
bandwidth requirement of a vehicle ntu is bntu(t)
′ = αntu
pu(t)
− Rntu
(t)
R′
ntu
(t)
.
SBA-GT for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios 361
Case 2: High Bandwidth Price Regime. The high bandwidth price systemmeans that
the bandwidth price provided by UAV u is greater than . So lim
bntm
(t)→0
∂Untm
(bntm
(t))
∂(bntm
(t)) < 0,
the first derivative of the utility remains negative as the bandwidth demand enhances.
The optimal bandwidth requirement of the vehicle ntu in the UAV u coverage of time slot
t is b′
ntm
(t) = 0.
Table 1. Proof of Theorem 1.
Proof: The max-min value judgment
1: For
∂Untu
(bntu
(t))
∂(bntu
(t)) = αntu
Rntu
(t)
R′
ntu
(t)+Rntu
(t)bntu
(t)
− pu(t)
2: And
∂2Untu
(bntu
(t))
∂(bntu
(t))2
= − αntu
(Rntu
(t))2
(R′
ntu
(t)+Rntu
(t)bntu
(t))2
is less than 0
3: Therefore, the utility function is concave
4: For lim
bntu
(t)→∞
∂Untu
(bntu
(t))
∂(bntu
(t)) = −pu(t) is less than 0
5: And lim
bntu
(t)→0
∂Untu
(bntu
(t))
∂(bntu
(t)) = αntu
Rntu
(t)
R′
ntu
(t)
− pu(t)
6: Therefore, it has a max or min value
Then, we further analyze the optimal bandwidth price strategy of each UAV is
Uu(pu(t)) = (pu(t) − cu(t))
Nt
u∑
ntu=1
max(
αntu
pu(t)
−
R′
ntu
(t)
log(1 + βntu(t))
, 0)
= (pu(t) − cu(t))
Nt
m∑
ntm=1
(
αntu
pu(t)
−
R′
ntu
(t)
log(1 + βntu(t))
)
(8)
The second derivative of the UAV utility function relative to the bandwidth price
pu(t) can be expressed as ∂2Uu(pu(t))
∂(pu(t))2
= −2
Nt
u∑
ntu=1
(
cuαntu
(pu(t))3
) < 0.
We propose an optimal decision search algorithm based on gradient descent to find
the optimal bandwidth pricing strategy for each UAV. By adjusting the policy to improve
the utility, the price of the drone u is updated topu(t)[τ+1] = pu(t)[τ ]+ε∇Uu(pu(t)[τ ]),
where pu(t)[τ ] is the bandwidth price of the UAVm in the τ−th iteration, ε is the number
of iterations of bandwidth price, and ∇Uu(pu(t)[τ ]) is the gradient value. The iterative
process of optimal bandwidth pricing strategy shows in Algorithm 1.
362 Y. Cheng et al.
4 Simulation Performance
Table 2 elaborates the parameters of our experimental environment.
Figure 3 shows the comparison result of the UAV’s utility. When B0 is fixed, the
utility of the UAV in our proposed scheme is greater than that of the other two conven-
tional schemes. In the linear-based allocation scheme, the bandwidth price is determined
according to the linear pricing mechanism. As a result, this bandwidth price is not opti-
mal, and drones cannot have the most excellent utility. In our proposed scheme, the
bandwidth price is determined based on the game theory of the optimal bandwidth
price.
The performance of the proposed scheme is evaluated by comparing it with themany-
to-one scheme [8] scheme, the maximum signal-strength-indicator (max-RSSI) [9]
scheme, themaximum signal-to-interference-plus-noise-ratio (max-SINR) [10] scheme,
the Auction-Based UAV Swarm Many-to-Many scheme (AMMA) and UE-Optimal
Many-to-One Matching scheme (UMOA) [11].
Table 2. Experimental parameters and value.
Parameters Value Parameters Value
Square network 1000 m × 1000 m Gain between BS and vehicle 10 mW–30 mW
Number of UAV 10, 12, 15 Gain between UAV and ground g0 −50 db
Desired data rate 1 Mbps–15 Mbps Path loss μ −2
AWGN variance 10−14 W Number of iterations 0.1
SBA-GT for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios 363
The system throughput among UAVs and vehicles of our scheme specifies in Fig. 4.
The figure elaborates that our scheme has the highest system throughput. The second
one is about 40.2% lower than ours compared with other schemes.
Fig. 3. Utility of the UAV Fig. 4. System throughput
5 Conclusion
In this paper, we propose a novel security bandwidth allocation scheme based on the
storage server and smart contracts in UAV-assisted VANET with game theory. Specif-
ically, we firstly developed a secure bandwidth allocation framework. To allocate the
secure bandwidth of drones, we design an iterative-based algorithmbased on the needs of
vehicles and the real-time bandwidth of drones, to maximize utility by Stackelberg equi-
librium. Furthermore, we not only elaborate the security analysis of the smart contracts in
the network, and resist fraud andmalicious attacks, respectively, but also achieve privacy
protection and secure bandwidth allocation. Finally, we conduct simulation experiments
to verify the effectiveness of our scheme.
Acknowledgment. This work was supported in part by the R&D Program of Beijing Municipal
Education Commission under Grant KM202010009010, in part by the Yunnan Key Laboratory
of Blockchain Application Technology under Grant 2021105AG070005 (YNB202102), in part
by the Beijing Municipal Natural Science Foundation under Grant M21029 and in part by the
National Key Research and Development Program of China under Grant 2018YFB1800302.
References
1. Liang, J., Ma, M.: An efficiency-accuracy tradeoff for IDSs in VANETs with markov-based
reputation scheme. In: Proceedings of ICC, pp. 1–6 (2021)
2. Bhabani, B., Mahapatro, J.: A delay-efficient channel allocation scheme for disseminating
alert messages using WBAN and VANET. In: Proceedings of ICC, pp. 1–6 (2021)
3. Xu, S., Chen, X., He, Y.: EVchain: an anonymous blockchain-based system for charging-
connected electric vehicles. Tsinghua Sci. Technol. 26(6), 845–856 (2021)
4. Wen, Y., Shi, J., Zhang, Q., Tian, X., Huang, Z., Yu, H., et al.: Quality-driven auction-based
incentive mechanism for mobile crowd sensing. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 64(9), 4203–4214
(2015)
364 Y. Cheng et al.
5. Nguyen, C.T., Hoang, D.T., Nguyen, D.N., Niyato, D., Nguyen, H.T., Dutkiewicz, E.: Proof-
of-stake consensus mechanisms for future blockchain networks: fundamentals. Appl. Opport.
IEEE Access. 7, 85727–85745 (2019)
6. Shen, Y., Liu, Y., Yang, H., Sang, L., He,W.: Cell-cluster network-assisted adaptive streaming
media optimization over wireless network. In: Proceedings of WCNC, pp. 1–6 (2021)
7. Yang, X., Zhang, H., Ji, H., Li, X.: Hybrid cooperative caching based iot network considering
the data cold start. In: Proceedings of WCNC, pp. 1–6 (2021)
8. Meng, Y., Zhang, Z., Huang, Y., Zhang, P.: Resource allocation for energy harvesting-aided
device-to-device communications: a matching game approach. IEEE Access. 7, 175594–
175605 (2019)
9. Elshaer, H., Kulkarni, M.N., Boccardi, F., Andrews, J.G., Dohler, M.: Downlink and uplink
cell association with traditional macrocells and millimeter wave small cells. IEEE Trans.
Wirel. Commun. 15(9), 6244–6258 (2016)
10. Guvenc, I.: Capacity and fairness analysis of heterogeneous networks with range expansion
and interference coordination. IEEE Commun. Lett. 15(10), 1084–1087 (2011)
11. Zhang, Q., Wang, H., Feng, Z., Han, Z.: Many-to-many matching-theory-based dynamic
bandwidth allocation for UAVs. IEEE Internet Things J. 8(12), 9995–10009 (2021)
12. Cao, Y., Xu, S., Chen, X., He, Y., Jiang, S.: A forward-secure and efficient authentication
protocol through lattice-based group signature in VANETs scenarios. Comput. Netw. 124,
109149 (2022)
13. Cheng, Y., Xu, S., Zang, M., Jiang, S., Zhang, Y.: Secure authentication scheme for VANET
based on blockchain. In: Proceedings of ICCC, pp. 1526–1531 (2021)
14. Cheng, Y., Xu, S., Zang,M., Kong,W.: LPPA: a lightweight privacy-preserving authentication
scheme for the internet of drones. In: Proceedings of ICCT, pp. 656–661 (2021)
15. Xiong, Z., Cai, Z., Han, Q., Alrawais, A., Li. W.: ADGAN: protect your location privacy in
camera data of auto-driving vehicles. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 18(2), 1310–1321 (2022)
16. Xiong, Z., Xu, H., Li, W., Cai., Z.: Multi-source adversarial sample attack on autonomous
vehicles. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 70(3), 2822–2835 (2021)
17. Wang, J., Cai, Z., Yu., J.: achieving personalized k-anonymity based content privacy for
autonomous vehicles in CPS. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 16(6), 4242–4251 (2020)
18. Cai, Z., Zheng, X.: A private and efficient mechanism for data uploading in smart cyber-
physical systems. IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng. 7(2), 766–775 (2020)
	SBA-GT: A Secure Bandwidth Allocation Scheme with Game Theory for UAV-Assisted VANET Scenarios
	1 Introduction
	2 Our Proposed Scheme
	2.1 Network Model
	2.2 Our Proposed UAV-Based VANET System
	2.3 The Secure Bandwidth Allocation System
	2.4 Security Analysis of the Proposed Roaming System
	3 Game Theory Analysis
	3.1 Game Modeling
	3.2 Follower Strategy
	4 Simulation Performance
	5 Conclusion
	References