On-Demand Ride-Hailing Service Platforms With Hired Drivers During Coronavirus (COVID-19) Outbreak: Can Blockchain Help&#x003F;
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT 1
On-Demand Ride-Hailing Service Platforms With
Hired Drivers During Coronavirus (COVID-19)
Outbreak: Can Blockchain Help?
Tsan-Ming Choi and Xiutian Shi
Abstract—During the recent COVID-19 (CoV) global outbreak,
there is a sharp decline of revenue of on-demand ride-hailing (ODR)
platforms because people have serious worries of infection in the
shared vehicles. Blockchain, which supports cryptocurrency and
creates full traceability of the service history of each car and driver,
may come to rescue by allowing the platform to offer only the
“safe cars” to consumers. Motivated by the real world challenges
associated with the CoV outbreak for the ODR platform, we build
game-theoretical models based on the M/M/n queuing system to
explore if and how blockchain can help. In the basic model, the
ODR platform decides the service price and special hygiene level.
Comparing between the cases with and without blockchain, we
find that blockchain implementation increases both the service
price and hygiene level. In addition, when the consumers’ inherent
worry of infection is substantially large, implementing blockchain
achieves all-win for the ODR platform, drivers and consumers. In
the extended models, we first consider the case when the special
hygiene level is determined by the drivers under a mixed-leadership
game and then explore the case when customers are risk averse.
The main findings about blockchain adoption remain valid in both
cases. However, when the drivers take charge of the special hygiene
level, both optimal decisions are lower in most cases. It is also
important to make efforts to reduce consumers’ feeling volatility
toward service valuation for improving the value of blockchain
adoption and related performances.
Index Terms—Blockchain, coronavirus outbreak, pricing, ride-
hailing platform operations.
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background and Motivation
UBER and Alto are popular on-demand ride-hailing (ODR)
service platforms. They used to have a solid business in
normal market environments. However, with the recent global
COVID-19 outbreak, the ride-hailing industry deeply suffered
Manuscript received September 3, 2021; revised October 26, 2021; accepted
November 18, 2021. The work of Tsan-Ming Choi was supported by Yushan
Fellow Program under Grant NTU-110VV012. The work of Xiutian Shi was
supported by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant
72071113. Review of this manuscript was arranged by Department Editor K.-K.
R. Choo. (Corresponding author: Xiutian Shi.)
Tsan-Ming Choi is with the Department and Graduate Institute of Business
Administration, National Taiwan University, Roosevelt Road, Taipei 10617,
Taiwan (e-mail: jasonchoi@ntu.edu.tw).
Xiutian Shi is with the School of Economics and Management, Nanjing
University of Science and Technology, Nanjing 210094, Jiangsu (e-mail:
xtshi@njust.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2021.3131044.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TEM.2021.3131044
and the ride-hailing platform Alto’s CEO even claimed that
“Ride volume had fallen by about 75%.”1 These may be related
to the regulations or public awareness that consumers were
encouraged to follow “social distancing” rules, including staying
at home orders, public school closures, and other restrictions
[16]. More importantly, consumers who need to go out have
deep worries about hygiene and the risk of being infected. A
recent report by Washington Post is very pessimistic toward
Uber’s ride-ship business.2
Under COVID-19, some car-hailing platforms, such as Alto,
hire and train their own drivers with “background checked” as
shown from the official websites. For other platforms like Didi
and Uber, they have hired their own trained drivers under the
“Didi” and “Uber Black” premium service schemes for ODR
services [12]. A big decline of demand directly hurts the drivers
and ODR platform. Consumers also suffer by the inconvenience
caused. Expecting the coronavirus outbreak will continue for
some time and similar disease cases may appear from time to
time in the future, it is critically important to think of a solution
to this challenge. It is noticed that the spread of pandemic has
pushed ODR platforms to invest substantially in health safety
programs, such as special hygiene for protection. It is reported
that Uber has spent US$50 million on health-protection related
resources, including face masks, hand sanitizers, and bleach
wipes, so as to lift the extra hygiene level during the COVID-19
pandemic. From Uber (Hong Kong)’s website, we can see that
Uber (Hong Kong) has imposed extra measures to enhance the
hygiene level like providing and using special cleaning and
sterilizing materials and procedures.3 A recently launched ODR
platform with a focus on safety, Alto, has well survived and
gained market share in the global COVID-19 pandemic. Besides
providing masks, gloves, and sanitation training for its drivers,
Alto also checks the drivers’ temperatures before each shift,
installs “plexiglass” barriers between drivers and riders, and
offers a hospital-grade high-performance sanitizing mist that
kills 99.9% of bacteria and viruses, including COVID-19. The
company even implements high efficiency particulate air filters
1Accessed: Sep. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://edition.cnn.com/2020/
03/27/tech/drivers-delivery-workers/index.html
2Accessed: Oct. 18, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.washingtonpost.
com/technology/2020/08/10/uber-coronavirus-lockdowns/
3Accessed: Oct. 18, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.uber.com/hk/zh-
hk/coronavirus/?_ga=2.85499225.117759456.1602996145-231336113.
1602996145&uclick_id=f5736ccf-4d3f-484d-8ece-e56b5aa7e68f
0018-9391 © 2021 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2748-5813
mailto:jasonchoi@ntu.edu.tw
mailto:xtshi@njust.edu.cn
https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2021.3131044
https://edition.cnn.com/2020/03/27/tech/drivers-delivery-workers/index.html
https://edition.cnn.com/2020/03/27/tech/drivers-delivery-workers/index.html
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/08/10/uber-coronavirus-lockdowns/
https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/08/10/uber-coronavirus-lockdowns/
https://www.uber.com/hk/zh-hk/coronavirus/{?}_ga$=$2.85499225.117759456.1602996145-231336113.1602996145&uclick_id$=$f5736ccf-4d3f-484d-8ece-e56b5aa7e68f
https://www.uber.com/hk/zh-hk/coronavirus/{?}_ga$=$2.85499225.117759456.1602996145-231336113.1602996145&uclick_id$=$f5736ccf-4d3f-484d-8ece-e56b5aa7e68f
https://www.uber.com/hk/zh-hk/coronavirus/{?}_ga$=$2.85499225.117759456.1602996145-231336113.1602996145&uclick_id$=$f5736ccf-4d3f-484d-8ece-e56b5aa7e68f
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
2 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
(that are used in hospitals) to provide clean air. It recorded an
impressive 300% increase in demand in May 2020 compared to
April 2020, because Uber and Lyft both fell behind in terms of
hygiene related “health-safety” measures. It is also observed
that some platforms encourage drivers to take responsibility
for the health-safety issues.4 This is especially true if the ve-
hicles are owned by the drivers. Didi provides guidance for
drivers to keep them and passengers protected from COVID-19
“without enforcement.” For example, it recommends drivers
to wear personal protective equipment (PPE) such as masks
if they feel comfortable. Moreover, drivers are recommended
to install in-vehicle plastic protective sheets at their own dis-
cretions. Lyft, another well-established rideshare platform, also
spent nearly US$2.5 million to purchase hand sanitizers, masks,
disinfectants, etc. and offered them to its drivers for their usage3.
However, Lyft does not have the legal power to force its drivers to
fully use these resources as well as undertake the extra hygiene
requirements such as regular temperature check or plastic pro-
tective sheet installation. In addition, although many platforms
provide guidance to drivers and may request for reporting, the
drivers may not faithfully follow and some may even provide
fake reports and information. Though many ODR platforms have
already claimed that they are clean and safe with a high hygiene
level, consumers may still doubt because all kinds of passengers
may have taken the vehicles before and whether the vehicles
are really properly sterilized is unknown. All these motivate the
need to have new technologies for traceability of reliable and
trustworthy information on both drivers and customers.
In ride-hailing and logistics industries, the distributed ledger
technology blockchain has been well-proposed for different
functions. The new technologies enable firms and platforms to
operate more efficiently and effectively [17], [12]. The current
"news-reported" proposal mainly focuses on cryptocurrency
such as "Uber dollar" which may create benefits and convenience
to the drivers, consumers and ODR platform. In fact, in early
2021, Uber’s CEO Dara Khosrowshahi said on CNBC that Uber
is considering "accepting cryptocurrencies including bitcoin as
a form of payment" with the support of blockchain.5, 6 RideX,
an Ethereum blockchain based platform for taxi-services, has
planned to use cryptocurrency in its operations with the crypto-
wallets.7 Both drivers and passengers are benefited with the
use of cryptocurrency, which also helps achieve the contactless
payment scheme. Arcade City has launched the blockchain ride
hailing and deliveries app.8 This platform uses to be Ethereum
blockchain-powered application that allows users to pay for
their rides through the integrated Airbitz login-enabled Bitcoin
wallets. Nowadays, it has further developed and established
its own blockchain ecosystem and declared that the scalability
4For Alto’s case, we thank a manager from a popular website for drivers and
a senior executive of Alto for their industrial inputs. For the other cases, the
practices are observed from the platforms’ blogs and official websites.
5Accessed: Jun. 3, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.coindesk.com/
uber-crypto-payments
6Accessed: Nov. 2, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://bitcoinist.com/an-uber-
crypto-future-could-be-closer-than-you-think/
7Accessed: Jun. 3, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://uxplanet.org/ridex-taxi-
service-on-ethereum-blockchain-fecee1879a23?gi=3406a8a15234
8Accessed: Jun. 12, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.newsbtc.com/
sponsored/arcade-city-taps-blockchain-technology-create-new-age-uber/
and usability challenges, such as privacy issues, drivers’ instant
payment, and integration of credit card and crypto payments, are
well solved.
Blockchain, in fact, has many other critical functions. For
instance, using a private permissioned blockchain can create
full traceability of the reliable and trustworthy sterilization
information as well as service history of each car and every
driver. To be specific, for customers (i.e., passengers), to use
the ride hailing services, their phone numbers will naturally be
recorded and put into the blockchain with code. This makes it
easy to trace when there are valid business/health-safety needs.
The same applies to drivers in which their working schedule with
respect to the vehicle will also be recorded in the blockchain. If
the process of data registration is well designed in which each
step taken during the sterilization process is well-documented
in the blockchain based system, drivers dare not fake the related
information as the records are all kept permanently and govern-
ing bodies can always trace and inspect the corresponding data
records. Drivers will need to face very serious consequences if
they provide fake information and blockchain’s data records are
the strongest evidence. This is critical as it helps foster trust
of consumers and it allows the ODR platform to offer only the
safe and well-sterilized cars to consumers, as the cars associated
with infected/suspected passengers or drivers can quickly be
identified and further sterilized. In the real world, platforms,
such as RideX and Acrade City, reveal the features and benefits
of blockchain adoption on their official websites. This would
naturally help reduce consumers’ worry and foster trust.
Moreover, drivers’ wages are reduced significantly due to the
epidemic. In order to make compensation, instant payment is
actually a feature that drivers in ride hailing platforms’ loyalty
program will have access to. We have conducted an interview
with a senior data scientist in Uber to obtain the needed industrial
inputs. According to the interview, blockchain implementa-
tion is effective and helpful because platforms can foster con-
sumers’ trust during COVID-19 and smart contracting function
of blockchain can achieve instant payments. Note that to the
best of our knowledge, the only technology which possesses all
these features is blockchain. To be specific, the only technology
to support cryptocurrency is blockchain, which enables efficient
and accurate payment (no cheating and quick). For example,
in the RideX platform, which has implemented blockchain,
it is reported that, “when the user makes a transaction, an
Ethereum Smart-contract is written in such a way that 80%
of the bill amount goes to the Taxi Driver, 11% of it goes
to the Government’s Wallet address (Futuristic scenario), and
the rest of the 9% funds are transferred to RideX community
funds.7” The only technology, which can guarantee full trust and
permanent information, as evidenced in applications in diamond
supply chains (see Everleger9), and food industries (IBM and
Walmart case), is also blockchain. Blockchain is well known as
a decentralized system and related information, can be shared
with all relevant parties easily. According to our investigation,
all these features will reduce consumers’ worry and enhance
information transparency. Using blockchain here is hence not a
simple “buzz word” or “gimmick” or “garbage-in garbage-out,”
9Accessed: Jun. 3, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.everledger.io/
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://www.coindesk.com/uber-crypto-payments
https://www.coindesk.com/uber-crypto-payments
https://bitcoinist.com/an-uber-crypto-future-could-be-closer-than-you-think/
https://bitcoinist.com/an-uber-crypto-future-could-be-closer-than-you-think/
https://uxplanet.org/ridex-taxi-service-on-ethereum-blockchain-fecee1879a23{?}gi$=$3406a8a15234
https://uxplanet.org/ridex-taxi-service-on-ethereum-blockchain-fecee1879a23{?}gi$=$3406a8a15234
https://www.newsbtc.com/sponsored/arcade-city-taps-blockchain-technology-create-new-age-uber/
https://www.newsbtc.com/sponsored/arcade-city-taps-blockchain-technology-create-new-age-uber/
https://www.everledger.io/
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 3
because it cannot be replaced by another technology like AI or
big data analytics [13], [32]. However, the use of blockchain in
ride-hailing platforms as well as the challenges they faced under
CoV are not yet systematically explored in the literature.
B. Research Questions and Contribution
Motivated by the challenges created by the CoV outbreak
as well as the probable help brought by blockchain, we build
consumer utility based theoretical models with the goal of
addressing the research questions as follows.
1) For the ODR platform: What are the optimal pricing and
hygiene level decisions under the CoV outbreak with and
without implementing blockchain?
2) When will the implementation of blockchain help the
ride-hailing platform? What will be the situation in which
deploying blockchain becomes an all-win solution (i.e.,
consumers, drivers, and ODR platform all get benefited)?
3) How robust are the findings when we generalize the mod-
els to different settings such as a) the case when the special
hygiene level is the decision made by the drivers, and
b) consumers are risk averse? What additional insights
can be uncovered regarding the benefits and values of
blockchain?
The objective of this article is to identify solutions for ride-
hailing platforms under CoV and uncover whether and when
blockchain can create “all-win” so that consumers, drivers and
the ODR platform are all benefited. By exploring the answers to
the above research questions, we theoretically establish analyti-
cal basic models based on an M/M/n queueing system, in which
the special hygiene measures and pricing policies are imposed
by the ODR platform. We investigate the platform’s incentive
to adopt blockchain, which fosters consumers’ trust under CoV
by significantly reducing their worry of infection. Blockchain
implementation is expected to increase the service price and
hygiene level at the same time. We also analytically find that if
the consumers’ inherent worry of infection is substantially large,
implementing blockchain is beneficial to the ODR platform,
drivers and consumers (i.e., it achieves all-win). If this situation
is not satisfied, we uncover the situation in which government
sponsors are needed in order to achieve all-win. The amount of
sponsor needed is also derived in closed-form. Regarding the
impacts brought by two critical factors in the problem, namely
the number of drivers and the effective demand arrival rate,
we have the following findings. First, we find that when the
number of drivers increases, the optimal price, optimal special
hygiene level, and the respective ODR platform’s profit, drivers’
profit and consumer surplus all go up. Second, for blockchain
adoption, when the number of drivers increases, the values of
blockchain for the ODR platform, drivers and consumers are
more likely to be positive. For the effective demand arrival rate,
it has polarized influences. These results show that if the number
of drivers is relatively large or the effective demand arrival rate
is low, an all-win situation by blockchain adoption is easier
to be achieved. This situation well reflects what is happening
during COVID-19. Hence, we urge car-hailing platforms to
adopt blockchain under the epidemic.
In the extended models and analyses, we consider various
important extensions. In the first extended model (Model DVD)
in which the drivers determine the special hygiene level them-
selves, we model it as a mixed-leadership game. In the absence
of blockchain, we find that both the optimal service price and
special hygiene level are lower under Model DVD compared
to the basic models in which the ODR platform decides the
special hygiene level. For the case when blockchain is present,
comparing to the basic model, we find the conditions under
which the optimal service price and special hygiene level are
lower under Model DVD. Moreover, we analytically prove that
under Model DVD, the blockchain adoption increases both the
optimal service price and special hygiene level. After robustness
checking, we show the findings about the value of blockchain
implememtation under the basic models remain valid even if the
special hygiene level decision is made by the drivers, rather than
the ODR platform.
In the second extended model, we consider the situation
with risk averse consumers (i.e., Model RA). We find that no
matter whether blockchain is present or absent, for the case
in which consumers are risk averse, the optimal service price,
special hygiene level, profits of the ODR platform and drivers,
and consumer welfare are lower compared to the respective
case in which consumers are risk neutral. In addition, the risk
attitude of consumers does not affect the impact of blockchain
implementation on the optimal service price and special hygiene
level. Last but not least, we suggest the platform make efforts in
reducing consumers’ feeling volatility toward service valuation,
as their risk attitude blunts the value of blockchain for all parties.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first analytical study
that explores the application of blockchain as a solution to deal
with the CoV outbreak for ODR platforms in logistics. All the
results and insights are mathematically proven in closed-form.
The findings not only contribute to the literature but also provide
insights to enhance practices, which help the ODR platforms to
better cope with the CoV outbreak.
C. Organization
This article is organized as shown in the following. After
presenting the background and introduction in Section I, we
review related studies in the literature in Section II. We establish
the basic models in Section III, in which features of the ODR
operations with and without blockchain are developed. We in-
vestigate when blockchain will create the all-win situations in
Section IV. When blockchain can help consumers and drivers
but not the ODR platform, we propose how governments may
provide sponsorship to help. For robustness checking and deriv-
ing more insights, we explore various extensions in Section V.
Section VI concludes this article. To improve readability, all
technical derivations as well as analytical proofs are placed in
the online appendix (A2).
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
A. Ride-Hailing Platforms Operations
Over the past few years, studies on ride-hailing platforms
are very popular in the literature. The earliest studies focus
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
4 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
on the optimal pricing decisions for the ODR services. For
instance, Bellos et al. [3] analytically explore via stylized models
the vehicle-sharing problem with respect to “product line de-
sign.” Cachon et al. [4] theoretically examine the optimal
“surge pricing policies” on a service platform in the presence
of a “self-scheduling control” capacity. Taylor [44] studies the
“supply demand matching” issues for on-demand platforms,
including ride-hailing platforms. The author considers the case
in which consumers possess the “high-low” utility function
and derives the optimal pricing policies. Most recently, Hu et
al. [24] analytically study the optimal surge pricing decisions
in ride-hailing platform operations. The authors interestingly
explore the “two-sided temporal responses” in their model.
After that, many recent studies emerge to examine various im-
portant consumer behaviors related issues or innovative strate-
gies in ODR platforms. For example, considering the impatient
consumer behaviors, Bai et al. [2] investigate the optimal pricing
scheme and ODR platform with data from Didi. The authors
uncover the insights regarding the situation when customers
possess the impatient behavior. Nourinejad and Ramezani [37]
analytically study the ride-sourcing model. They argue that the
long-term “daily profit” of the platform with the dynamic pricing
policy can be improved after relaxing the constraint governing
the charged price and agents’ wage. Sun et al. [43] study labor
supply on ride-sharing platforms. The authors consider both par-
ticipation and working-hour decisions in the model with “sample
self-selection bias” of driver participation and the income rate is
endogenous. Sun et al. [42] examine ride-sourcing platform op-
erations and prove that consumers will suffer a loss if the “closest
drivers are chosen” by the platform. Choi et al. [12] explore the
on-demand service platform with risk-sensitive consumers. The
authors prove that customized pricing using blockchain technol-
ogy can help improve revenue for the platform. Chen et al. [7]
study the optimal dynamic policies for best matching supply
and demand in real time for an ODR platform. The authors
propose an “approximate dynamic programming” algorithm to
solve the problem and generate insights regarding the optimal
commission rate and surge price. Most recently, Yu et al. [50]
examine the issues on regulating “ODR services”. The authors
propose an insightful result that to improve total social welfare,
the government may in fact reform the taxi industry, rather than
putting stricter rules toward the on-demand ride services.
Similar to the above examined studies, this article explores
ride-hailing platform service operations. In particular, we also
focus on studying the optimal pricing decisions. However, dif-
ferent from all of the reviewed papers, we investigate the special
hygiene level, which is a crucial aspect under the CoV outbreak.
We also focus on uncovering the impacts brought by blockchain
technologies. Other considerations, such as the hygiene level
decision making role (the ODR platform versus drivers), and
risk attitudes of customers, which are important under the CoV
outbreak and studied in this article, are not explored in the extant
literature.
B. Logistics Operations Under Disasters
The second area, which relates to this article, is on supply
chain and logistics service operations under disasters [22]. Gupta
et al. [21] classify the disaster management research by high-
lighting five critical attributes of a major disaster. Among them,
disaster management function, which includes the decision-
making process, prevention, and mitigation, is fundamentally
important. Some research conducts game-theoretical analyses
toward logistics systems in the presence of current or future dis-
asters such as climate changes, natural disasters [46], or sudden
disruptions in transportation [47]. Early studies have explored
the development in information technology and quantified val-
ues of such investment on operations issues [40]. In recent years,
more and more studies have paid attention to the deployment
of technologies. For example, Yan and Pedraza-Martinez [48]
examine the use of social media analytics for disasters related
logistics planning. Mejia et al. [34] investigate how information
transparency may yield higher donation for disasters via the
crowdsourcing platform. Ivanov [26] proposes a simulation
based approach to forecast impacts brought by the CoV outbreak
on global distribution channels. Most recently, motivated by a
real case in Hong Kong, Choi [10] investigates the situation of
making stationary static services “mobile” and offering them via
using a truck under the CoV outbreak. Using multiple methods,
Bag et al. [1] empirically investigate the impact of “big data
analytics” on healthcare supply chain operations to fight against
pandemics. For a review and discussion of pandemic and the
related operations and supply chain management studies, please
refer to Craighead et al. [15] and Kaplan [29]. Regarding how
on-demand service operations may continue under disasters
or disease outbreaks like the CoV pandemic, to the best our
knowledge, this article is the first one in the literature.
C. Operations Management With Blockchain Technologies
Blockchain technologies are widely used in logistics oper-
ations [8], [33], [38], as well as addressing the traceability
problem in business operations [23]. Historically, the cryptocur-
rency, such as bitcoin, is closely related to blockchain. In fact,
blockchain’s rapid development is directly associated with the
popularity of bitcoins. Nowadays, blockchain is no longer just a
tool or system for secure financial transactions. It actually works
for many different aspects in logistics and business operations
[35], such as supply chain finance [18], information sharing [20],
crowdsourcing [36], transport and logistics [31], and healthcare
sector [41]. In the recent literature, Choi [9] mathematically
explores the diamond supply chain with the use of an Everledger
blockchain based platform. The authors show how blockchain
can provide the needed information to enhance channel trans-
parency. Orji et al. [38] examine the critical factors which affect
the deployment of blockchain in transport. The authors provide
a solid evaluation of these factors, which are crucial for freight
logistics. Lopez and Farooq [33] study the “smartphone based
mobility data blockchain” as an emerging technology in logistics
networks. The authors pay attention to privacy issues and derive
a six-layer framework, which precisely describes the related
“information flow”. Choi et al. [12] propose to use blockchain
to help on-demand service platforms to offer customized pricing
schemes for different risk sensitive customers. The importance
of blockchain is highlighted. Most recently, Cai et al. [5] study
the use of blockchain to combat cheating behaviors in supply
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 5
chains with the use of platforms. Pun et al. [39] investigate the
value of blockchain in combatting counterfeiting with consider-
ation of the interplay between a manufacturer and a counterfeiter.
Similar to the above reviewed papers using blockchain and
its related technologies, this article also analytically studies
the impacts and values of blockchain as a useful technological
tool. However, this article focuses on dealing with the CoV
outbreak for ride-hailing platform operations. The consideration
of enhancing “safety” via information transparency, which is
important in this study, is also not explored by the prior studies.
As the impact of such digital transformation on the employees
or agents is largely overlooked in the literature [15], this article
contributes to fill this gap by exploring the drivers’ incentives to
make efforts in lifting the special hygiene level with the use of
blockchain.
III. BASIC MODELS
A. ODR Platform Operations Without Blockchain
We consider an ODR platform, which is similar to Uber, Didi
and Alto, in which the ODR platform hires well-trained drivers to
serve the market. Between the drivers and ODR platform, there
is a revenue sharing scheme in which a proportion 0 < α < 1 of
revenue generated by the rides will be shared with the drivers.
This is a common practice in many ride-hailing platforms [12].
Following the observed industrial practice, the payment to the
drivers will be made as a lump-sum periodically, e.g., on the last
day every month. As such, when drivers receive the payment,
owing to time value of money, they actually receive less money
compared to the case when they can get a share of the revenue
instantly. Without blockchain, the ODR platform hires a bank
to help with financial matters and there is a fixed service fee
of TFIN. For the ODR platform, it has to make decisions on
two things, namely the pricing p (for the ride service which is a
critical part of revenue management [45]) and special hygiene
level h, which represents the “extra” hygiene level compared
with operations during the normal market conditions and is
critical under the CoV outbreak. Based on the observations
from industries, the special hygiene level refers to the PPE and
related efforts (to cope with COVID-19), such as face covering,
gloves, sanitization, and plexiglass barriers installation. In our
model, we consider the case when the cost for achieving a special
hygiene level h is a quadratic function as follows:J(h) = kh2/2
[28]. This cost will be settled also on the last date of every month
periodically. For consumers, under the CoV outbreak, they
deeply worry about the risk of being infected. We call this worry
the “consumers’ inherent worry of infection” and represent it by
w. Note that it is possible that there is no demand for car-hailing
service even if it is free of charge, when the consumers have
extremely serious concerns about being infected. Then, it is nat-
ural for the platform to turn to other solution such as blockchain
implementation. We assume that the consumers’ worry of being
infected is in a reasonable range to avoid the trivial scenario,
under which comparison with the blockchain adoption case
becomes trivial. In addition, for ride-hailing services, consumers
commonly do not want to wait and hence waiting time creates
a disutility. In this article, we follow the standard and simple
M/M/n queueing model (e.g., [12], [44],) the market demand
for on-demand riding services to follow a standard “Poisson
process” with “exponentially distributed” service time. For the
standard parameters for the Poisson process, we have:
1) the number of hired drivers [representing the available
service capacity (in hours)] = n,
2) the “effective demand arrival rate” is r under CoV out-
break, and
3) the “average service rate” is denoted by a, where r/(na) <
1[44].
As a result, the expected waiting time in the M/M/n queue can
be found at the steady state (and we denote it by Θ). Following
the standard results in the literature (see, e.g., [44], [12]), the
expected waiting time Θ in this M/M/n queueing system is
Θ =
(
n−1∑
i=0
[r/a]i
i!
+
[r/a]n
n!(1− (r/(na)))
)−1
(
(r/a)n
n!(1− (r/(na)))2na
)
. (1)
For the consumer, its valuation toward the ride service is
denoted by v. We model v as a continuous variable following
a density function g(v). The consumer will pay for the ride
service when its valuation is higher than its net cost, which
includes the service payment p, expected waiting time scaled
disutility tΘ (and t > 0 is the coefficient which maps and scales
the waiting time to reflect the consumer disutility), and worry
of being infected w. The consumer will be happy for riding on
a “clean” vehicle and hence the special hygiene level h creates
a utility. In general, a higher h improves the consumer utility
and helps offset the worries. With the above formulations, the
market demand for the case without blockchain under the CoV
outbreak is
dBCT =
∫ 1
p+tΘ+w−h
g(v)dv. (2)
Following the extant literature, we consider g(v) to be a
uniform distribution in the range of 0 to 1. Thus, (2) becomes
dBCT = 1− tΘ− w + h− p. (3)
With (3) and the above descriptions, we can derive the profit
functions for the ODR platform
(
ΠPF
BCT
)
and drivers
(
ΠDV
BCT
)
in the following:
ΠPF
BCT
= φp(1− tΘ− w + h− p)− J(h)− TFIN −ΠDV
BCT
(4)
ΠDV
BCT
= αp(1− tΘ− w + h− p) (5)
where φ > 1 is a threshold representing the average gain in
interests by the ODR platform as it receives payment from
customers continuously and the other cost parameters are all
calculated on the last date of every month. Accordingly, the first
term in (4) represents the expected total revenue received by the
platform with time value consideration. Note that the second
and third terms in (4) are the special hygiene cost and a fixed
service fee charged by the bank, respectively. As shown in (5),
the revenue is shared to the drivers with a proportion α.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
6 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
TABLE I
NOTATION EMPLOYED IN THE BASIC MODEL
Checking the structural properties shows that ΠPF
BCT
is a
concave function when k > (φ− α)/2. This reflects the situ-
ation when achieving the special hygiene level h is sufficiently
expensive, which means it is economically unwise to achieve a
special hygiene level to its upper limit.
It is also straightforward to find the consumer surplus as
follows:
Γ
BCT
=
(1− (p− h+ tΘ+ w))2
2
. (6)
Note that in this article, we focus on exploring the measures,
which can create all win to the consumers, drivers, and ODR
platform. Thus, (4), (5), and (6) are the important performance
measures under the case without blockchain. To enhance read-
ability, we present Table I, which shows a summary of the major
notation and symbols employed in this article.
B. ODR Platform Operations With Blockchain
When blockchain is implemented, several changes appear.
First, the ODR platforms can now pay the drivers using
cryptocurrency. As what the ride-hailing platform RideX has
implemented in practice, the platform can pay the drivers using
smart contracting mechanism, which means the drivers can
instantly get a share of revenue from each ride in cryptocurrency.
This brings an additional benefit to the drivers. For the ODR
platform, it also saves the service fee required by the bank. In
addition, the utilization of cryptocurrency achieves contactless
payment naturally, which is one proposed measure by the
car-hailing platforms under CoV (see Section I). Moreover,
blockchain can support the full traceability of prior passenger
information and disclose transparent information regarding
sterilization details. After the platform highlighting these
features and benefits of blockchain on the platform’s official
websites and promoting related feature with news, consumers
will be informed about blockchain implementation and related
benefits, which will significantly reduce their worry of being
infected as a result. Thus, the reduced parameter on “worry
of being infected” is represented by m, and m � w. Third,
blockchain is not free. For instance, using IBM blockchain cloud
service incurs a service fee per unit time. Blockchain, despite
having many appealing features, is known to be “expensive”
because it takes time to create a block and establish the hashtags,
etc. Thus, a unit blockchain operations cost b is incurred (per
demand or usage CPU time). In addition, a fixed cost TBCT is
incurred for basic systems maintenance, server hosting, etc.
With the above description, the market demand for the case
with blockchain under the CoV outbreak is
dBCT =
∫ 1
p+tΘ+m−h
g(v)dv = 1− tΘ−m+ h− p. (7)
Note that the linear additive demand is derived following
the consumer utility approach, which is also in line with the
commonly seen linear demand function in the literature. This
is a rather standard result in operations management. Observe
that in the literature, some studies also employ the multiplicative
demand (e.g., with the product quality decision [11]) but we do
not have any reasons to say the commonly seen linear demand
is not applicable here.
With (7), we can obtain the profit functions for the ODR
platform (ΠPF
BCT) and drivers (ΠDV
BCT) to be the following:
ΠPF
BCT = (φp− b)(1− tΘ−m+ h− p)− J(h)
− TBCT −ΠDV
BCT (8)
ΠDV
BCT = αφp(1− tΘ−m+ h− p) (9)
where the first term in (8) is the expected profit margin received
by the platform with the consideration of time value and the
variable cost of blockchain adoption. The second and third terms
in (8) are the special hygiene cost and a fixed cost of blockchain
adoption, respectively. Compared with the platform’s objective
function (4) in the absence of blockchain, the service fee required
by banks (TFIN) is waived with blockchain implementation.
As shown in (9), the revenue is shared to the drivers with
proportion α.
Similar to ΠPF
BCT
, checking the structural properties of ΠPF
BCT
shows that it is a concave function when k > φ(1− α)/2. In this
article, we assume that the cost of establishing a special hygiene
level is substantially expensive, which implies that ΠPF
BCT and
ΠPF
BCT are both concave.
We can also derive the consumer surplus as follows:
ΓBCT =
∫ 1
p−h+t+m
(v − (p− h+ tΘ+m))g(v)dv
=
(1− (p− h+ tΘ+m))2
2
. (10)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 7
TABLE II
OPTIMAL PRICING AND SPECIAL HYGIENE DECISIONS AS WELL AS THE
CORRESPONDING PROFITS AND CONSUMER SURPLUS FOR THE CASES WITH
AND WITHOUT BLOCKCHAIN
Comparing the cases with and without blockchain, we can
see that the consumer’s worry is reduced to be m under the
case with blockchain, the drivers are benefited with the fast
payment as well as a potentially larger demand derived from
the reduced consumers’ worry. The ODR platform can save the
fixed service fee for banks while it does need to bear the fixed cost
as well as the unit operations cost of blockchain. We summarize
the critical features of ODR services under the CoV outbreak
captured by the analytical model and related assumptions in
Online Appendix (A1).
IV. ANALYSES
A. Optimal Decisions, Profits, and Consumer Surplus
As the ODR platform’s profit functions (in the presence and
absence of blockchain) are concave, we can easily find the
optimal pricing and special hygiene level decisions by solving
the respective first order conditions. The results (as well as their
definitions) are summarized in Table II.
From Table II, it is easy to show that the blockchain adoption
increases the optimal special hygiene level and price at the
same time (i.e., p∗BCT > p∗
BCT
and h∗
BCT > h∗
BCT
). The main
reason explaining this finding is the fact that the “worry of being
infected” is significantly reduced (i.e., m � w). It hints that the
consumers have to pay more for the blockchain adoption but their
worry about the infection is significantly reduced and the ODR
platform increases the special hygiene level as well. Therefore,
it is neither clear nor intuitive whether the blockchain adoption
benefits the ODR platform and drivers, as well as the consumers.
As such, we discuss whether an all-win situation can be achieved
via blockchain adoption in the following subsection.
B. All-Win Situation and Government Sponsor
From Table II, we can see the analytical expressions of the
ODR platform’s profits, drivers’ profits, and consumer surplus
functions at the optimal decisions. Define: V PF∗=ΠPF∗
BCT −
ΠPF∗
BCT
, V DV ∗=ΠDV∗
BCT −ΠDV∗
BCT
, V CS∗=Γ∗
BCT − Γ∗
BCT
, which
correspondingly represent the values of blockchain for the ODR
platform, drivers, and consumers. With simple algebra, we can
find the closed form expressions of these values of blockchain
functions as follows:
V PF∗ = TFIN − TBCT
+ φ(1−α)k((2k−(φ−α)))B2−(φ−α)k(2k−φ(1−α))(1−tΘ−w)2
2(2k−φ(1−α))(2k−(φ−α))
where
B = (1− tΘ−m− [b/(φ(1− α))])
V DV∗ =
(
αkB
2k − φ(1− α)
)(
φkB
2k − φ(1− α)
+
φb
φ(1− α)
)
− α
(
k(1− tΘ− w)
2k − (φ− α)
)2
V CS∗ =
k2
2
(
B
2k − φ(1− α)
− 1− tΘ− w
2k − (φ− α)
)
(
B
2k − φ(1− α)
+
1− tΘ− w
2k − (φ− α)
)
.
We further define three critical thresholds as follows and then
present Proposition 4.1
Proposition 4.1: Under the basic models:
(a) V PF∗
(
>
=
<
)
0 ⇔ w
(
>
=
<
)
w̄PF, V DV∗
(
>
=
<
)
0 ⇔
w
(
>
=
<
)
w̄DV, V CS∗
(
>
=
<
)
0 ⇔ w
(
>
=
<
)
w̄CS. (b) The ODR
platform, drivers and consumers are all benefited by the
w̄PF = 1− tΘ−
√√√√( (2k − (φ− α))
(φ− α)
){(
φ(1− α)(1− tΘ−m− [b/(φ(1− α))])2
(2k − φ(1− α))
)
+
(
2(TFIN − TBCT)
k
)}
w̄DV = 1− tΘ−
√(
kB
2k − φ(1− α)
)(
φkB
2k − φ(1− α)
+
φb
φ(1− α)
)(
(2k − (φ− α))
k
)2
w̄CS =
(
1
2k − φ(1− α)
)(
2k
(
m+
b
φ(1− α)
)
+ (φ− α)
(
1− tΘ−m− b
φ(1− α)
))
.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
8 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
implementation of blockchain if and only if the consumers’
inherent worry of infection w > max(w̄PF, w̄DV, w̄CS).
Proposition 4.1 is a very important result. It highlights the nec-
essary and sufficient condition under which an all-win situation
can be achieved with the use of blockchain. To be specific, if the
consumers’ inherent worry of infection is substantially large,
implementing blockchain is beneficial to the ODR platform,
drivers and consumers. This has a very good implication to the
case under the CoV outbreak as the consumers’ inherent worry
of infection should be very large. Proposition 4.1 hence provides
a scientifically solid evidence to support the use of blockchain
as a good measure to deal with the CoV outbreak as it can
benefit the consumers, drivers, and ODR platform altogether.
For the consumers, though they have to pay a higher service
price with blockchain, their worries of infection are significantly
reduced by the improved special hygiene level and the beneficial
features of blockchain implementation. Although the adoption
costs of blockchain are high, the platform still has incentives to
implement it to foster consumers’ trust, by reducing their inher-
ent worry of infection from a sufficiently high level. Moreover,
the incremental demand brought by blockchain implementation
and the enhanced service price would benefit the drivers. An
additional benefit to the platform and drivers comes from the
instant payment enabled by blockchain technology. This result is
consistent to our interview with the senior data scientist in Uber:
blockchain implementation is promising by achieving instant
payment.
Though the consumers’ inherent worry of infection plays a
significant role in evaluating blockchain implementation, there
are some other influencing factors that have impacts on the
platform’s incentive for blockchain adoption and the drivers’
and consumers’ preferences of this technology.
Corollary 4.1: Under the basic models: (a) The ODR plat-
form’s incentive and the drivers’ preferences for blockchain
adoption are strengthened when the consumers are less sensitive
to expected waiting time, or the variable costs of this technology
reduce. (b) The consumers’ preference of blockchain adoption
is weakened when the consumers are less sensitive to expected
waiting time or the variable costs of this technology increase.
Corollary 4.1 shows the joint effects of the above-mentioned
influencing factors on the value of blockchain adoption. When
the consumers become more serious about waiting time, this atti-
tude blunts the platform’s incentive and the drivers’ preferences
for blockchain adoption. However, the consumers’ increasingly
serious concerns about expected waiting time strengthen their
preference of blockchain adoption, which significantly helps
reduce their worry of being infected.
From Proposition 4.1, we can see that one situation may
appear in which the consumers and drivers are benefited with
the implementation of blockchain but the ODR platform suffers.
This case occurs when consumers’ inherent worry of infection
is bounded as follows: max(w̄DV, w̄CS) < w < w̄PF. This case
will occur, e.g., when the fixed cost of TBCT is very high. In
this situation, we propose the government to consider providing
sponsorship to the ODR platform to help. Governments
in Australia, China, and Germany have revealed funding
boosts to support the development of blockchain technology
TABLE III
VALUES OF BLOCKCHAIN FOR THE ODR PLATFORM, DRIVERS, AND
CONSUMERS
∗The notation “+”/ “-” represents that the value of blockchain is positive/negative.
and its application in industries and public services.10,11
The sponsorship or investment arranged by governments
essentially covers partial implementation costs of blockchain
technology. To be specific, we define the following notation
Φ = k{φ(1−α)((2k−(φ−α)))B2−(φ−α)(2k−φ(1−α))(1−tΘ−w)2}
2(2k−φ(1−α))(2k−(φ−α)) > 0
and then present Proposition 4.2.
Proposition 4.2: Under the basic models, when
max(w̄DV, w̄CS) < w < w̄PF, the government can provide
a sponsor of SPF > S̄PF to the ODR platform so that the
ODR platform, drivers, and consumers are all guaranteed
to be benefited by the implementation of blockchain, where
S̄PF = TBCT − TFIN − Φ.
Proposition 4.2 indicates a case in which governments should
consider helping. This case appears when the consumers’ inher-
ent worry of infection is medium. Under this situation, the benefit
by adopting blockchain cannot dominate the substantial cost for
the ODR platform. To overcome this challenge, the amount of
needed sponsors by the government is uncovered in Proposition
4.2. Policy makers of the government can hence make reference
to it for setting the right amount of sponsors.
As a remark, in Proposition 4.2, we focus on the sponsorship
scheme to the ODR platform (i.e., the firm), which is commonly
seen in many places. However, we may also have the cases
such as max(w̄DV, w̄PF,) < w < w̄CS and max(w̄CS, w̄PF) <
w < w̄DV in which to achieve all-win, the government needs to
sponsor the consumers and drivers to make the implementation
of blockchain an all-win measure. However, these cases should
be rare in practice, because the fixed cost of blockchain imple-
mentation should be high which means the platform’s benefit
should be under threat most (rather than the consumers and
drivers). Anyhow, if these rare cases do occur, theoretically,
arrangements in the form of sponsors to consumers/drivers
(similar to Proposition 4.2) can be made.
Table III summarizes the main results obtained in the basic
models in which the special hygiene measures are imposed by
the ODR platform. If the consumers’ inherent worry of infection
10Accessed: Oct. 18, 2021. [Online]. Available: http://www.xinhuanet.com/
english/2020-07/06/c_139190439.htm
11Accessed: Oct. 18, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://cointelegraph.com/
news/new-zealand-blockchain-group-to-request-government-blockchain-
strategy
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-07/06/c_139190439.htm
http://www.xinhuanet.com/english/2020-07/06/c_139190439.htm
https://cointelegraph.com/news/new-zealand-blockchain-group-to-request-government-blockchain-strategy
https://cointelegraph.com/news/new-zealand-blockchain-group-to-request-government-blockchain-strategy
https://cointelegraph.com/news/new-zealand-blockchain-group-to-request-government-blockchain-strategy
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 9
is substantially large, an all-win scenario can be achieved by im-
plementing blockchain. If this situation is not satisfied, sponsors
from government are needed in order to achieve all-win.
C. Discussions and Effects of Critical Factors
We now proceed to explore how various critical factors affect
the optimal decisions as well as the achievability of all-win. We
first look at the effects brought by the number of drivers n and
arrival rate r. We have Proposition 4.3.
Proposition 4.3: Under the basic models, no matter whether
blockchain is present or absent: (a) When the number of drivers
n increases (resp. decreases), the optimal price, optimal special
hygiene level, and the respective ODR platform’s profit, drivers’
profit, and consumer surplus all go up (resp. down). (b) When the
effective demand arrival rate r increases (resp. decreases), the
optimal price, optimal special hygiene level, and the respective
ODR platform’s profit, drivers’ profit, and consumer surplus all
go down (resp. up).
Proposition 4.3 shows several important results regarding the
effects of n and r. For example, if n increases (i.e., when the num-
ber of hired drivers increases), not only the optimal price, but also
the special hygiene level as well as the benefits of ODR platform,
drivers, and consumers will all go up12. For the effective arrival
rate r, if it increases, the optimal price, special hygiene level and
benefits of all related parties (i.e., ODR platform, drivers and
consumers) will go down. This finding is a bit surprising which
is also different from the “supply-demand matching” theory.
When the effective arrival rate goes up, “demand” goes up and
one would expect that price will go up to balance supply and
demand. However, the opposite happens. This finding is in fact
related to the presence of “special hygiene level,” which makes
the “supply-demand matching” problem different from the one
when pricing is the sole decision. Specifically, the platform
prefers to reduce the service price to induce consumers’ demand
rather than raise the special hygiene level when the potential
demand (i.e., effective arrival rate r) is large, as it faces the
tradeoff between an increment of demand by reducing worry of
infection and related costs to achieve a certain special hygiene
level. However, as the effective arrival rate r goes down naturally
during the pandemic, it is suggested that the platform should
increase the special hygiene level to foster consumers’ trust,
which leads to a higher service price, based on the results in
Proposition 4.3. In addition, the raised demand yields a higher
expected waiting time, which leads to a lower utility and service
price as a result. It implies that though we consider consumers’
worry of infection under the epidemic, consumers’ dislike of
expected waiting time still plays a crucial role in ODR platforms’
operations.
Next, we examine the effects brought by the number of drivers
and effective demand arrival rate on the values of blockchain
adoption, respectively. Note that the three critical thresholds
of infection (i.e., w̄PF, w̄DV, w̄CS) are all decreasing in the
12The results here refer to the aggregated profit across all drivers. For the
average profit for each driver, the same results would still hold because Θ/n
also decreases in n. Interested readers may refer to Taylor (2018) and Choi et al.
(2020) for details of this argument.
TABLE IV
IMPACTS OF THE NUMBER OF DRIVERS AND EFFECTIVE DEMAND ARRIVAL
RATE ON THE PLATFORM, DRIVERS, AND CONSUMERS
∗The notation “↑”/ “↓” represents that the index increases/decreases in the number of
drivers/effective demand arrival rate.
expected waiting time Θ, which by itself decreases in n and
increases in r.
Proposition 4.4: Under the basic models: (a) When the
number of drivers n increases (resp. decreases), the values of
blockchain for the ODR platform, drivers and consumers in-
crease (resp. decrease) and are more (resp. less) likely to be
positive. (b) When the effective demand arrival rate r increases
(resp. decreases), the optimal price, the values of blockchain
for the ODR platform, drivers, and consumers decrease (resp.
increase) and are less (resp. more) likely to be positive.
Proposition 4.4 implies that a relatively large number of
drivers or a relatively low arrival rate makes the all-win situation
by blockchain adoption easier to be achieved. As the arrival
rate drops significantly due to the CoV outbreak, the adoption
of blockchain becomes more valuable for the ODR platform,
drivers, and consumers. This directly implies that it is easier to
achieve “all-win” under the epidemic. According to a survey,
which focuses on the satisfaction of drivers and customers
of Uber, these efforts to protect health during COVID-19 are
viewed as the second important aspect that contributes to sat-
isfaction on the app13. Note that this important insight is in
line with Proposition 4.2, as the lower bound for government
sponsor to achieve the all-win situation (i.e., S̄PF) increases in
the arrival rate, which hints that the government sponsor plays
a less crucial role under the CoV outbreak, because the ODR
platform has stronger motivation to adopt the blockchain when
there is a significant drop of arrival rate. We summarize the
impacts of the number of drivers and effective demand arrival
rate in Table IV.
V. EXTENDED MODELS AND ANALYSES
A. Model DVD: Drivers Decide the Special Hygiene Level
In the basic models, we assume that the ODR platform is
responsible for determining the special hygiene level of vehicles;
however, another scenario exists in which the drivers are the
ones who are responsible for it. This case is especially relevant
if the vehicles are owned by the drivers. For example, drivers are
encouraged to purchase face coverings, partitions, and cleaning
13Accessed: Feb. 24, 2021. [Online]. Available: https://www.uber.com/blog/
uber-experience-survey/
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://www.uber.com/blog/uber-experience-survey/
https://www.uber.com/blog/uber-experience-survey/
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
10 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
TABLE V
OPTIMAL PRICING AND SPECIAL HYGIENE DECISIONS UNDER MODEL DVD
supplies at wholesale prices directly from the app of Lyft14.
In this situation, the decision making process will be different.
To be specific, the drivers and ODR platform will make their
own decisions simultaneously and engage in a mixed-leadership
game in which the ODR platform leads in making the “pricing”
decision and drivers lead in deciding the special hygiene level.
Here, the ODR platform decides the optimal price (i.e., service
fee) and the drivers decide the optimal special hygiene level.
We name this scenario where drivers decide the special hygiene
level as Model DVD.
Under Model DVD, similar to the basic models, we have
the ODR platform’s profit functions, drivers’ profit functions,
and consumer surplus functions for the cases with and without
blockchain as follows:
Π̂PF
BCT
= (φ− α)p(1− tΘ− w + h− p)− TFIN
Π̂DV
BCT
= αp(1− tΘ− w + h− p)− (kh2/2)
Γ̂
BCT
= Γ
BCT
=
(1− (p− h+ tΘ+ w))2
2
Π̂PF
BCT = (φ(1− α)p− b)(1− tΘ−m+ h− p)− TBCT
Π̂DV
BCT = αφp(1− tΘ−m+ h− p)− (kh2/2)
Γ̂BCT = ΓBCT =
(1− (p− h+ tΘ+m))2
2
.
The optimal decisions are summarized in Table V. Moreover,
checking the optimal decisions, we have Proposition 5.1.
Proposition 5.1 (Blockchain is absent): When blockchain is
absent, compared to the basic models in which the ODR platform
decides the special hygiene level, both the optimal service price
and special hygiene level are lower under Model DVD.
Proposition 5.1 shows that when the drivers make decisions
on special hygiene level under Model DVD, in the absence of
blockchain, the optimal service price as well as special hygiene
level would become lower than the case in which these deci-
sions are made by the ODR platform. The result indicates that
“who decides the special hygiene level” does matter while a bit
surprisingly, when the drivers are in charge, the special hygiene
level in fact gets worse for the case without using blockchain.
Proposition 5.2 (Blockchain is present): Under Model DVD,
when blockchain is present, comparing to the basic models in
which the ODR platform decides the special hygiene level. (a)
The optimal service price is lower (resp. higher) under Model
14Accessed: Nov. 24, 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.lyft.com/blog/
posts/expanding-our-health-safety-program
DVD if b > b̂p (resp. b < b̂p). (b) the optimal special hygiene
level is lower (higher) under Model DVD if b > b̂h(resp. b <
b̂h), where b̂p and b̂hsolves p∗BCT = p̂∗BCTand h∗
BCT = ĥ∗
BCT,
respectively.
When blockchain is present, Proposition 5.2 reveals how the
unit blockchain operations cost plays a role in affecting whether
or not the optimal service price as well as the optimal special
hygiene level will be larger under Model DVD than under
the basic models. This also indicates the importance of “who
controls the special hygiene level.” To be specific, allowing
drivers to make decision on special hygiene level (i.e., under
Model DVD) will lead to higher special hygiene level if the
unit blockchain operations cost is sufficiently low (i.e., b < b̂h).
Comparing with the case without blockchain, we find that the im-
plementation of blockchain incentivizes the drivers to increase
the special hygiene level voluntarily, when the unit blockchain
operations cost is low enough. If the unit blockchain operations
cost is truly sufficiently low (i.e., b < b̂h and b < b̂p), then
Proposition 5.2 reveals that both the selling price and hygiene
level would be higher when the drivers make the extra hygienve
level decision (i.e., under Model DVD). However, the opposite
case appears if the unit blockchain operations cost is sufficiently
high.
Proposition 5.3: Under Model DVD, the blockchain adop-
tion increases both the optimal service price and the special
hygiene level
(
i.e., p̂∗BCT > p̂∗
BCT
and ĥ∗
BCT > ĥ∗
BCT
)
.
Proposition 5.3 shows the impact of blockchain on the optimal
decisions. Though the blockchain adoption enables the ODR
platform to charge a higher service price, it provides a higher
special hygiene level as well. Therefore, it is not straightforward
to see whether or not implementing blockchain is beneficial to
the ODR platform, drivers, and consumers. Similar to the basic
models, we measure the values of blockchain adoption from
different perspectives.
For a notational purpose, define the following:
Π̂PF∗
BCT
= Π̂PF
BCT
(
p̂∗
BCT
, ĥ∗
BCT
)
, Π̂DV∗
BCT
= Π̂DV
BCT
(
p̂∗
BCT
,
ĥ∗
BCT
)
, Γ̂∗
BCT
= Γ̂
BCT
(
p̂∗
BCT
, ĥ∗
BCT
)
, Π̂PF∗
BCT = Π̂PF
BCT(
p̂∗BCT, ĥ
∗
BCT
)
, Π̂DV∗
BCT = Π̂DV
BCT
(
p̂∗BCT, ĥ
∗
BCT
)
, Γ̂∗
BCT =
Γ̂BCT
(
p̂∗BCT, ĥ
∗
BCT
)
. We can derive Π̂PF∗
BCT
, Π̂DV∗
BCT
, and Γ̂∗
BCT
to be the following:
Π̂PF∗
BCT
= (2− (φ− α))
(
k(1− tΘ− w)(φ− α)
2k − α(φ− α)
)2
− TFIN
Π̂DV∗
BCT
=
(
kα(1−tΘ−w)2
[2k−α(φ−α)]2
)(
2k(2−(φ−α))−α(φ−α)
2
)
Γ̂∗
BCT
=
1
2
(
k(1− tΘ− w)[2− (φ− α)]
2k − α(φ− α)
)2
.
Define the following thresholds
ŵDV = 1− tΘ− (2k − α(φ− α))√√√√( 1
kα(φ− α)
)(
2Π̂DV∗
BCT
2k(2− (φ− α))− α(φ− α)
)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://www.lyft.com/blog/posts/expanding-our-health-safety-program
https://www.lyft.com/blog/posts/expanding-our-health-safety-program
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 11
ŵPF = 1− tΘ−
(
2k − α(φ− α)
k(φ− α)
)√
Π̂PF∗
BCT + TFIN
2− (φ− α)
ŵCS = 1− tΘ−
√
2Γ̂∗
BCT
(
2k − α(φ− α)
k(2− (φ− α))
)
.
We further define the values of blockchain as fol-
lows: V̂ PF∗=Π̂PF∗
BCT − Π̂PF∗
BCT
, V̂ DV∗ = Π̂DV∗
BCT − Π̂DV∗
BCT
,
V̂ CS∗=Γ̂∗
BCT − Γ̂∗
BCT
. We have Proposition 5.4.
Proposition 5.4: Under Model DVD: (a) V̂ PF∗
(
>
=
<
)
0 ⇔
w
(
>
=
<
)
ŵPF, V̂ DV∗
(
>
=
<
)
0 ⇔ w
(
>
=
<
)
ŵDV, V̂ CS∗
(
>
=
<
)
0 ⇔
w
(
>
=
<
)
ŵCS. (b) The ODR platform, drivers, and consumers
are all benefited by the implementation of blockchain if
and only if the consumers’ inherent worry of infection w >
max (ŵPF, ŵDV, ŵCS).
Proposition 5.4 shows that the findings under the basic models
remain valid even if we change the decision role. The respective
insights are hence robust with respect to who makes the special
hygiene level decision.
Next, we show how the Model DVD affects the values of
blockchain for the ODR platform, drivers, and consumers. Based
on the definition, there is no difference between formations of
consumer surplus in the basic models and Model DVD. There-
fore, we focus on the perspectives from the platform and drivers.
As the comparison is analytically intractable, we conduct a
numerical analysis to compare the values of blockchain for the
platform and drivers under the basic and DVD models.
Recall that in Section IV, the crucial influential parameters
are the number of hired drivers (n) and effective arrival rate (r),
respectively. We check in this numerical analysis the values of
blockchain for the platform and drivers under the basic models
and Model DVD by varying n and r. The numerical examples
use the following parameter values initially: a = 4, ϕ = 3, α =
0.5, w = 0.7, m = 0.001, t = 0.2, b = 0.8, and k = 3. Note
that these parameter values well-satisfy the models assumptions
and are realsitic with respect to the corresponding physical
meanings. Keeping these parameters unchanged and setting the
arrival rate as r = 12, we conduct the numerical analysis by
varying the number of hired drivers from 6 to 16 to guarantee
the queueing system is stable, and obtain Fig. 1(a) and (b).
Fig. 1(a) shows that adopting blockchain hurts the ODR
platform when the number of hired drivers is small under both the
basic models and Model DVD. In addition, from both Fig. 1(a)
and (b), we can see that the values of blockchain for both
the ODR platform and drivers are lower under Model DVD
compared with that under the basic models. It is interesting to
observe that the gap becomes more significant as the number of
hired drivers increases.
Keeping the other parameters unchanged, we vary the value
of arrival rate (r) from 20 to 36 and set the number of drivers
to be 20. The results are presented in Fig. 2(a) and (b). From
Fig. 2(a) and (b), we can observe that the values of blockchain
for the platform and drivers decrease in the arrival rate under
Fig. 1. (a) Impacts of the number of hired drivers on the value of blockchain
for the platform under the basic models and Model DVD. (b) Impacts of the
number of hired drivers on the value of blockchain for the drivers under the
basic models and Model DVD.
Fig. 2. (a) Impacts of the arrival rate on the value of blockchain for the platform
under basic and DVD models. (b) Impacts of the arrival rate on the value of
blockchain for the drivers under basic and DVD models.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
12 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
both the basic models and Model DVD, respectively. Adopting
blockchain eventually hurts the ODR platform and drivers under
both models as the arrival rate raises. However, the platform
is hurt more significantly under the basic models compared to
Model DVD, when the arrival rate is sufficiently high. Moreover,
Fig. 2(a) and (b) also show that although the values of blockchain
are lower under Model DVD, the gap shrinks as the arrival rate
increases.
B. Model RA: Risk Averse Consumers
Risk averse decision making is a common behavior in both
logistics systems (Fahimnia et al., [19]; Jose and Zhuang, [27])
and on-demand platform operations (Choi et al., [12]). In the
basic models, we assume that the consumers are risk neutral
and they will pay for the ride-hailing service if their service
valuation (i.e., v) with additional utility from the special hy-
giene level exceeds the price and scaled disutility due to the
expected waiting time and infection concerns. We now explore
the scenario when the consumers are risk averse by directly
extending the basic models with the only change in terms of the
consumers’ risk attitude (from risk neutral to be risk averse).
We argue that risk aversion behavior of consumers should be
important under the CoV outbreak because consumers tend to
be more conservative in making decisions. Following the similar
approach in the literature (see Kazaz et al., [30]), we assume
that consumers’ risk premium is represented by βσv , where the
consumers’ risk averse degree is denoted as β and the risk is
captured by the standard deviation of service valuation (σv). It
is important to take the variation of service valuation into con-
sideration under COVID-19, because consumers’ value toward
searching car-hailing services varies significantly due to the
epidemic status. Under these models, consumers do not welcome
volatility of service valuation, which follows the standard Nobel
prize winning Markowitz’ mean-variance theory. As a remark,
we do not consider risk aversion of the drivers because in this
article, they are the hired agents who are actually paid to work.
They do not have the right to decline the job assignment, etc.
When the risk averse consumers search for service, the market
demand for the case without and with blockchain under the CoV
outbreak, respectively become
dRA
BCT
=
∫ 1
p+tΘ+w−h+βσv
g(v)dv (11)
dRA
BCT =
∫ 1
p+tΘ+m−h+βσv
g(v)dv. (12)
Similar to the previous analysis, we consider g(v) as a uni-
form distribution in the range of 0 to 1. Thus, (11) and (12)
become
dRA
BCT
= 1− tΘ− w + h− p− β
12
(13)
dRA
BCT = 1− tΘ− w + h− p− β
12
. (14)
Then, if the consumers are risk averse, under the case without
blockchain, the profit functions for the ODR platform (ΠPF,RA
BCT
)
and drivers (ΠDV,RA
BCT
) as well as the consumer welfare are hence
given as follows:
ΠPF,RA
BCT
= φp(1− tΘ− w + h− p− β
12
)
− (kh2/2)− TFIN −ΠDV,RA
BCT
(15)
ΠDV,RA
BCT
= αp(1− tΘ− w + h− p) (16)
ΓRA
BCT
=
(1− (p− h+ tΘ+ w+ β
12 ))
2
2
. (17)
Now, when the blockchain is implemented, we can derive
the profit functions for the ODR platform (ΠPF,RA
BCT ) and drivers
(ΠDV,RA
BCT ) as well as the consumer welfare in the following:
ΠPF,RA
BCT = (φp− b)
(
1− tΘ−m+ h− p− β
12
)
− (kh2/2)− TBCT −ΠDV,RA
BCT (18)
ΠDV,RA
BCT = αφp
(
1− tΘ−m+ h− p− β
12
)
(19)
ΓRA
BCT =
(1− (p− h+ tΘ+m+ β
12 ))
2
2
. (20)
The ODR platform’s profit functions under both the cases
with and without blockchain adoption are concave with the
consideration of consumers’ risk attitude. We can hence easily
find the optimal pricing and special hygiene level decisions by
solving the respective first order conditions. The results (as well
as their definitions) are summarized in Table VI.
We have Proposition 5.5.
Proposition 5.5: (a) No matter whether blockchain is present
or absent, for the case in which consumers are risk averse (i.e.,
under Model RA), the optimal service price, special hygiene
level, profits of the ODR platform and drivers and consumer
welfare are lower compared to the respective case in which
consumers are risk neutral. (b) No matter whether the consumers
are risk neutral or risk averse, adopting blockchain will always
yield the higher optimal selling price and special hygiene level
(i.e., p∗BCT > p∗
BCT
and h∗
BCT > h∗
BCT
, and pRA∗
BCT > pRA∗
BCT
and
hRA∗
BCT > hRA∗
BCT
). Thus, the risk attitude of consumers does not
affect this result.
Proposition 5.5(a) highlights a solid result on the impacts
brought by the risk averse attitudes of consumers, which would
drive all optimal decisions and benefits of all parties lower.
Proposition 5.5(b) interestingly reveals that in terms of the im-
pacts brought by adopting blockchain on the optimal decisions,
the risk attitudes of consumers do not matter. In other words, no
matter whether the consumers are risk neutral or risk averse,
both the optimal service price and special hygiene level are
increased after adopting blockchain (i.e., pRA∗
BCT > pRA∗
BCT
and
hRA∗
BCT > hRA∗
BCT
).
Although the qualitative insights of comparison between
cases with and without blockchain remain the same irrespective
of the consumer risk attitude, we attempt to check further the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 13
TABLE VI
OPTIMAL PRICING AND SPECIAL HYGIENE DECISIONS AS WELL AS THE CORRESPONDING PROFITS AND CONSUMER SURPLUS FOR THE CASES WITH AND
WITHOUT BLOCKCHAIN WITH RISK AVERSE CONSUMERS
value of blockchain for the ODR platform, drivers, and con-
sumers with risk consideration. Define: V PF,RA=ΠPF,RA∗
BCT −
ΠPF,RA∗
BCT
, V DV,RA=ΠDV,RA∗
BCT −ΠDV,RA∗
BCT
, V CS,RA=ΓRA∗
BCT −
ΓRA∗
BCT
, which correspondingly represent the values of blockchain
for the ODR platform, drivers and consumers. With simple
algebra, we can find the closed form expressions of these
values of blockchain functions as follows and we present
Proposition 5.6
V PF,RA = TFIN − TBCT +
φ(1− α)k((2k − (φ− α)))BRA2
2(2k − φ(1− α)) (2k − (φ− α))
− (φ− α)k(2k − φ(1− α))(1− tΘ− w − β
12 )
2
2(2k − φ(1− α))(2k − (φ− α))
where
BRA =
(
1− tΘ−m− β
12
− [b/(φ(1− α))]
)
V DV,RA =
(
αkBRA
2k − φ(1− α)
)(
φkBRA
2k − φ(1− α)
+
φb
φ(1− α)
)
− α
(
k(1− tΘ− w − β
12 )
2k − (φ− α)
)2
V CS,RA =
k2
2
(
BRA
2k − φ(1− α)
− 1− tΘ− w − β/12
2k − (φ− α)
)
×
(
BRA
2k − φ(1− α)
+
1− tΘ− w − β/12
2k − (φ− α)
)
.
Proposition 5.6: For the case in which consumers are risk
averse, the values of blockchain for the ODR platform, drivers
and consumers are reduced ( V PF,RA < V PF∗ , V DV,RA <
V DV∗ , and V CS,RA < V CS∗) compared to the case in which
the consumers are risk neutral.
From Proposition 5.6, we find that the values of blockchain
for all related parties become smaller when the consumers are
risk averse, compared to the case when they are risk neutral.
The impact of risk aversion is hence clear. As the consumers’
risk averse behavior blunts the value of blockchain from all
parties’ perspective, it may be suggested that the platform should
make efforts in reducing consumers’ uncertain feeling toward
the service valuation through promotions if consumers are found
to be risk averse.
VI. CONCLUSION
A. Concluding Remarks and Managerial Insights
Today, ODR service platform operations are very common.
However, during the recent CoV global outbreak, it is reported
that people have serious worries of being infected as all kinds of
passengers have taken the vehicles before. This directly leads
to a huge challenge to the industry and the respective ride-
hailing service operations. Motivated by the real world challenge
associated with the CoV outbreak for the ODR platform, we
theoretically explore this problem based on the M/M/n queuing
models. We focus on whether the blockchain technology can
come to the rescue.
In the basic models in which the special hygiene measures
are imposed by the ODR platform, we have analytically proven
that if the consumers’ inherent worry of infection is substan-
tially large, implementing blockchain is always beneficial to
the ODR platform, drivers, and consumers. If this situation
is not satisfied, we have found the situation in which gov-
ernment sponsors are needed in order to achieve all-win. In
addition, the amount of sponsor needed has also been derived in
closed-form.
After that, we have focused our investigation on two critical
factors, namely the number of drivers and the effective demand
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
14 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
arrival rate. We have first found that if the number of drivers
increases, then the optimal price, optimal special hygiene level,
and the respective ODR platform’s profit, drivers’ profit, and
consumer surplus will all go up. We have also uncovered that
if the effective demand arrival rate increases, then the optimal
price, optimal special hygiene level, and the respective ODR
platform’s profit, drivers’ profit, and consumer surplus will all go
down. More importantly, we highlight the fact that if the number
of drivers is relatively large or the effective demand arrival rate
is low, an all-win situation by blockchain adoption will be easier
to be achieved. As this situation well reflects the situation under
COVID-19, we urge car-hailing platforms to adopt blockchain
under the epidemic.
In the extended models, we have considered various important
extensions and conducted the corresponding analyses. In the
first extended model in which the drivers determine the spe-
cial hygiene level themselves (Model DVD), we have explored
the respective mixed-leadership game. We have found that if
blockchain is absent, compared to the basic models in which
the ODR platform decides the special hygiene level, both the
optimal service price and special hygiene level will become
lower under Model DVD. This finding shows that “who decides
the special hygiene level” does matter; while surprisingly, if the
drivers are in charge, the special hygiene level will in fact get
worse for the case without using blockchain. For the case when
blockchain is present, comparing to the basic models in which
the ODR platform decides the special hygiene level, we have
proven that the optimal service price is lower under Model DVD
if the unit blockchain operations cost is sufficiently high with
respect to a threshold, and the optimal special hygiene level is
lower under Model DVD if the unit blockchain operations cost
is sufficiently high with respect to another critical threshold.
Moreover, we have analytically revealed that under Model DVD,
blockchain adoption increases both the optimal service price and
special hygiene level. For robustness checking, we have also
demonstrated that under Model DVD, the ODR platform, drivers
and consumers will all be benefited by the implementation of
blockchain if and only if the consumers’ inherent worry of
infection is sufficiently high. It means the findings under the
basic models remain valid even if the special hygiene level
decision is made by the drivers, rather than the ODR platform.
Finally, in the second extended model, we have considered
the case when the customers are risk averse (i.e., Model RA).
Under Model RA, we have uncovered that no matter whether
blockchain is present or absent, for the case in which consumers
are risk averse, the optimal service price, special hygiene level,
profits of the ODR platform and drivers and consumer welfare
are lower compared to the respective case in which consumers
are risk neutral. In addition, irrespective of whether the cus-
tomers are risk neutral or risk averse, adopting blockchain will
always yield higher optimal selling price and special hygiene
level. Thus, the risk attitude of consumers does not affect this
result. Last but not least, we have proven that for the case in
which consumers are risk averse, the values of blockchain for
the ODR platform, drivers, and consumers are reduced compared
to the case in which the consumers are risk neutral.
B. Future Research
Similar to other analytical modeling studies, we admit lim-
itations. In the current study, viewing blockchain implementa-
tion as a tool to cope with the CoV outbreak, we show that
the technological tool may achieve an all-win situation under
certain conditions or with the government sponsor. In the future,
the specific value of government sponsorship deserves deeper
explorations. For example, it is interesting to examine how
government sponsorship to the ODR platform can lower the
infection rate and hence would reduce the social costs in treating
the inflection and the sponsorship may become more significant
with blockchain adoption (as the technological tool further re-
duces inflection leading to savings in medical treatment, which
can cover the sponsorship in return). Moreover, after the CoV
outbreak, during the normal operations of ride-hailing platforms,
no matter with hired drivers or contractors, how blockchain
technology can play a role is another interesting topic, which
provides a promising future research direction. Under the CoV
outbreak, we argue that safety is the top priority. Just like in many
cities, there are tracing devices for travelers (e.g., Singapore,
Hong Kong, etc). However, using blockchain would hurt privacy,
which is important. We propose to explore this issue in future
research. Furthermore, we assume that the effective arrival rate
is exogenous for neat results. More research efforts can also be
put on the scenarios where the effective arrival rate is affected
by consumers’ decisions and the pricing and special hygiene
decisions made by the platforms. Finally, in the current models,
the perceived hygiene level by consumers and consumers’ worry
of being infected are fixed and known. However, in the real
world, it may be random (due to the lack of transparency). It
will hence be very interesting to study how the presence of
blockchain can help reduce the uncertainty. It is also a promising
future research direction to consider the case in which variables
like consumers’ worry of getting infected are random and follow
some probability distributions (for both the cases with and
without blockchain implementation). Further analyses can be
conducted to explore their impacts.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the editors and five reviewers
for their insightful, critical, and constructive comments on this
article, especially during the time with COVID-19 virus. We are
also indebted to Dr. Kevin Li, a senior data scientist at Uber (at
the time when we developed this article) for his kind inputs and
comments.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Bag, S. Gupta, T. M. Choi, and A. Kumar, “Roles of innovation
leadership on using big data analytics to establish resilient health-
care supply chains to combat the COVID-19 pandemic: A multi-
methodological study,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage., to be published,
doi: 10.1109/TEM.2021.3101590.
[2] J. Bai, K. C. So, C. S. Tang, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “Coordinating
supply and demand on an on-demand service platform with impatient
customers,” Manuf. Serv. Oper. Manage., vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 479–711,
2018.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2021.3101590
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
CHOI AND SHI: ODR SERVICE PLATFORMS WITH HIRED DRIVERS DURING CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) OUTBREAK 15
[3] I. Bellos, M. Ferguson, and L. B. Toktay, “The car sharing economy:
Interaction of business model choice and product line design,” Manuf.
Serv. Oper. Manag., vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 185–201, 2017.
[4] G. P. Cachon, K. M. Daniels, and R. Lobel, “The role of surge pricing
on a service platform with self-scheduling capacity,” Manuf. Serv. Oper.
Manage., vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 368–384, 2017.
[5] Y. J. Cai, T. M. Choi, and J. Zhang, “Platform supported supply chain
operations in the blockchain era: Supply contracting and moral hazards,”
Decis. Sci., vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 866–892, 2021.
[6] D. Cetindamar, B. Abedin, and K. Shirahada, “The role of employees in
digital transformation: A preliminary study on how employees’ digital
literacy impacts use of digital technologies,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage.,
to be published, doi: 10.1109/TEM.2021.3087724.
[7] X. Chen, H. Zheng, J. Ke, and H. Yang, “Dynamic optimization strategies
for on-demand ride services platform: Surge pricing, commission rate, and
incentives,” Transport Res. Part B-Methodological, vol. 138, pp. 23–45,
2020.
[8] J. Chod, N. Trichakis, G. Tsoukalas, H. Aspegren, and M. Weber, “On the
financing benefits of supply chain transparency and blockchain adoption,”
Manage. Sci., vol. 66, no. 10, pp. 4359–4919, 2020.
[9] T. M. Choi, “Blockchain-technology-supported platforms for diamond
authentication and certification in luxury supply chains,” Transport Res.
E-Logistics, vol. 128, pp. 17–29, 2019.
[10] T. M. Choi, “Innovative ‘bring-service-near-your-home’ operations under
corona-virus (COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2) outbreak: Can logistics become
the messiah?,” Transport Res. E-Logistics, vol. 140, 2020, Art. no. 101961.
[11] T. M. Choi, “ Financing product development projects in the blockchain
era: Initial coin offerings versus traditional bank loans,” IEEE Trans. Eng.
Manage., to be published, doi: 10.1109/TEM.2020.3032426.
[12] T. M. Choi, S. Guo, N. Liu, and X. Shi, “Optimal pricing in on-demand-
service-platform-operations with hired agents and risk-sensitive customers
in the blockchain era,” Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 284, no. 3, pp. 1031–1042,
2020.
[13] T. M. Choi, S. W. Wallace, and Y. Wang, “Big data analytics in op-
erations management,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 27, pp. 1868–1883,
2018.
[14] K. K. R. Choo, S. Ozcan, A. Dehghantanha, and R. M. Parizi,
“Blockchain ecosystem-technological and management opportunities and
challenges,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage., vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 982–987,
Nov. 2020.
[15] C. W. Craighead, D. J. Ketchen, and J. L. Darby, “Pandemics and supply
chain management research: Toward a theoretical toolbox,” Decis. Sci.,
vol. 51, no. 4, pp. 838–866, 2020.
[16] C. J. Cronin and W. N. Evans, “Private precaution and public restrictions:
What drives social distancing and industry foot traffic in the COVID-19
era?,” Nat. Bur. Econ. Res., vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 864–882,2020.
[17] R. Cui, M. Li, and S. Zhang, “AI and procurement,” Manuf. Serv. Oper.
Manage., to be published, doi: 10.1287/msom.2021.0989.
[18] M. Du, Q. Chen, J. Xiao, H. Yang, and X. Ma, “Supply chain finance
innovation using blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage., vol. 67, no. 4,
pp. 1045–1058, Nov. 2020.
[19] B. Fahimnia, C. S. Tang, H. Davarzani, and J. Sarkis, “Quantitative models
for managing supply chain risks,” Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 247, no. 1,
pp. 1–15, 2015.
[20] T. Guggenberger, A. Schweizer, and N. Urbach, “Improving interorga-
nizational information sharing for vendor managed inventory: Toward a
decentralized information hub using blockchain technology,” IEEE Trans.
Eng. Manage., vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 1074–1085, Nov. 2020.
[21] S. Gupta, M. Starr, R. Z. Farahani, and N. Matinrad, “Disaster management
from a POM perspective: Mapping a new domain,” Prod. Oper. Manage.,
vol. 25, no. 10, pp. 1611–1637, 2016.
[22] H. Gurnani, A. Mehrotra, and S. Ray, Supply Chain Disruptions: Theory
and Practice of Managing Risk. Berlin, Germany:Springer, 2012.
[23] G. M. Hastig and M. Sodhi, “Blockchain for supply chain traceability:
Business requirements and critical success factors,” Prod. Oper. Manage.,
vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 935–954, 2020.
[24] B. Hu, M. Hu, and H. Zhu, “Surge pricing and two-sided temporal
responses in ride-hailing,” Manuf. Serv. Oper. Manage., to be published,
doi: 10.1287/msom.2020.0960.
[25] M. Iansiti and K. R. Lakhani, “The truth about blockchain,” Harvard Bus.
Rev., vol. 95, pp. 119–127, Jan./Feb. 2017.
[26] D. Ivanov, “Predicting the impacts of epidemic outbreaks on global
supply chains: A simulation-based analysis on the coronavirus outbreak
(COVID-19/SARS-CoV-2) case,” Transport Res. E-Logistics, vol. 136,
2020, Art. no. 101922.
[27] V. R. R. Jose and J. Zhuang, “Incorporating risk preferences in stochas-
tic noncooperative games,” IISE Trans., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 1–13,
2018.
[28] A. Kalra, M. Shi, and K. Srinivasan, “Salesforce compensation scheme
and consumer inferences,” Manage. Sci., vol. 49, no. 5, pp. 655–672,
2003.
[29] E. H. Kaplan, “OM forum—COVID-19 scratch models to support local
decisions,” Manuf. Serv. Oper. Manage., vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 645–655,
2020.
[30] B. Kazaz, S. Webster, and P. Yahav, “Interventions for an artemisinin-
based malaria medicine supply chain,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 25, no. 9,
pp. 1576–1600, 2016.
[31] L. Koh, A. Dolgui, and J. Sarkis, “Blockchain in transport and logistics-
paradigms and transitions,” Int. J. Prod. Res., vol. 58, no. 7, pp. 2054–2062,
2020.
[32] Y. H. Kuo and A. Kusiak, “From data to big data in production re-
search: The past and future trends,” Int. J. Prod. Res., vol. 57, no. 15–16,
pp. 4828–4853, 2019.
[33] D. Lopez and B. Farooq, “A multi-layered blockchain framework for
smart mobility data-markets,” Transport Res. C-Emerging, vol. 111,
pp. 588–615, 2020.
[34] J. Mejia, G. Urrea, and A. J. Pedraza-Martinez, “Operational trans-
parency on crowdfunding platforms: Effect on donations for emer-
gency response,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 28, no. 7, pp. 1773–1791,
2019.
[35] B. Müßigmann, H. Von Der Gracht, and E. Hartmann, “Blockchain tech-
nology in logistics and supply chain management-A bibliometric literature
review from 2016 to January 2020,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage., vol. 67,
no. 4, pp. 988–1007, Nov. 2020.
[36] K. Nelaturu et al., “On public crowdsource-based mechanisms for a
decentralized blockchain oracle,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage., vol. 67,
no. 4, pp. 1444–1458, Nov. 2020.
[37] M. Nourinejad and M. Ramezani, “Ride-sourcing modeling and pric-
ing in non-equilibrium two-sided markets,” Transport Res. Part B-
Methodological, vol. 132, pp. 340–357, 2019.
[38] I. J. Orji, S. Kusi-Sarpong, and S. Huang, “Evaluating the factors that
influence blockchain adoption in the freight logistics industry,” Transport
Res. E-Logistics, vol. 141, 2020, Art. no. 102025.
[39] H. Pun, J. M. Swaminathan, and P. Hou, “Blockchain adoption for com-
bating deceptive counterfeits,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 30, no. 4, pp.
864–882, 2021 doi: 10.1111/poms.13348.
[40] J. Ru, R. Shi, and J. Zhang, “When does a supply chain member benefit
from vendor-managed inventory?,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 27, no. 5,
pp. 807–821, 2018.
[41] S. Shi, D. He, L. Li, N. Kumar, M. K. Khan, and K. K. R. Choo,
“Applications of blockchain in ensuring the security and privacy of elec-
tronic health record systems: A survey,” Comput. Secur., vol. 97, 2020,
Art. no. 101966.
[42] L. Sun, R. H. Teunter, M. Z. Babai, and G. Hua, “Optimal pricing for
ride-sourcing platforms,” Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 278, no. 3, pp. 783–795,
2019.
[43] H. Sun, H. Wang, and Z. Wan, “Model and analysis of labor supply
for ride-sharing platforms in the presence of sample self-selection and
endogeneity,” Transport Res. Part B-Methodological, vol. 125, pp. 76–93,
2019.
[44] T. A. Taylor, “On-demand service platforms,” Manuf. Serv. Oper. Manage.,
vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 704–720, 2018.
[45] Y. Wang, Q. Meng, and Y. Du, “Liner container seasonal shipping
revenue management,” Transport Res. Part B-Methodological, vol. 82,
pp. 141–161, 2015.
[46] K. Wang and A. Zhang, “Climate change, natural disasters and
adaptation investments: Inter-and intra-port competition and coopera-
tion,” Transport Res. Part B-Methodological, vol. 117, pp. 158–189,
2018.
[47] W. Xie, Y. Ouyang, and S. C. Wong, “Reliable location-routing design
under probabilistic facility disruptions,” Transport Sci., vol. 50, no. 3,
pp. 1128–1138, 2016.
[48] L. Yan and A. J. Pedraza-Martinez, “Social media for disaster manage-
ment: Operational value of the social conversation,” Prod. Oper. Manage.,
vol. 28, no. 10, pp. 2514–2532, 2019.
[49] B. Yang et al., “Phase transition in taxi dynamics and impact of rideshar-
ing,” Transport Sci., vol. 54, pp. 250–273, 2020.
[50] J. J. Yu, C. S. Tang, Z. J. M. Shen, and X Chen, “A balancing act
of regulating on-demand ride services,” Manage. Sci., vol. 66, no. 7,
pp. 2975–2992, 2020.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2021.3087724
https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2020.3032426
https://dx.doi.org/10.1287/msom.2021.0989
https://dx.doi.org/10.1287/msom.2020.0960
https://dx.doi.org/10.1111/poms.13348
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination.
16 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT
Tsan-Ming Choi received the Ph.D. degree in sup-
ply chain operations management from the Depart-
ment of Systems Engineering and Engineering Man-
agement, The Chinese University of Hong Kong
(CUHK), Hong Kong, in 2002.
He is currently a Yushan Fellow and Professor with
the Department and Graduate Institute of Business
Administration, National Taiwan University (NTU),
Taipei City, Taiwan. Before joining NTU in the fall
of 2021, he was a Professor with The Hong Kong
Polytechnic University. He has authored or coau-
thored extensively in leading journals in the fields of operations management,
engineering management, logistics, and supply chain management.
Dr. Choi is a Member of the Engineering Panel, Research Grants Council
(Hong Kong). He is the Coeditor-in-Chief for Transportation Research Part
E: Logistics and Transportation Review, Department Editor for IEEE TRANS-
ACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, Senior Editor for Production and
Operations Management, and Associate Editor for Decision Sciences, IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, Information
Sciences, etc. He was the recipient of the prestigious President’s Award for
Excellent Performance and Achievement from The Hong Kong Polytechnic
University.
Xiutian Shi received the Ph.D. degree in management
science and engineering from Nanjing University,
Nanjing, China, in 2014.
She is currently an Associate Professor with the
School of Economics and Management, Nanjing Uni-
versity of Science and Technology, Nanjing, China.
She has authored or coauthored research papers in
journals, such as European Journal of Operational
Research, International Journal of Production Eco-
nomics, Transportation Research Part E, Interna-
tional Journal of Production Research, and IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS. Her current
research interests include game-theoretic modeling of supply chain management
and marketing-operations interface.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:35:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.