Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies
Legal Aspects of Decentralized
and Platform-Driven Economies
Marcelo Corrales Compagnucci, Toshiyuki Kono and Shinto Teramoto
Abstract The sharing economy is sprawling across almost every sector and activity
around the world. About a decade ago, there were only a handful of platform-driven
companies operating on the market. Zipcar, BlaBlaCar and Couchsurfing among
them. Then Airbnb and Uber revolutionized the transportation and hospitality indus-
tries with a presence in virtually every major city. “Access over ownership” is the
paradigm shift from the traditional business model that grants individuals the use of
products or services without the necessity of buying them.Digital platforms, data and
algorithm-driven companies as well as decentralized blockchain technologies have
tremendous potential. But they are also changing the “rules of the game.” One of
such technologies challenging the legal system are AI systems that will also reshape
the current legal framework concerning the liability of operators, users and manu-
facturers. Therefore, this introductory chapter deals with explaining and describing
the legal issues of some of these disruptive technologies. The chapter argues for a
more forward-thinking and flexible regulatory structure.
Keywords Sharing economy · Platforms · AI · Blockchain · Data protection ·
Autonomous vehicles
M. Corrales Compagnucci (B)
Center for Advanced Studies on Biomedical Innovation Law (CeBIL), Faculty of Law, University
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark
e-mail: marcelo.corrales13@gmail.com
T. Kono · S. Teramoto
Faculty of Law, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan
© Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2020
M. Corrales Compagnucci et al. (eds.), Legal Tech and the New Sharing Economy,
Perspectives in Law, Business and Innovation,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-1350-3_1
1
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-15-1350-3_1&domain=pdf
mailto:marcelo.corrales13@gmail.com
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-1350-3_1
2 M. Corrales Compagnucci et al.
1 Introduction
The sharing economy is a new model of organizing economic activity that may
substitute traditional corporations and capitalism around the world. This activity
is based on acquiring, providing or sharing access to goods and services based on
underutilized assets.1 The sharing economy is facilitated by a community based on
digital platforms that enable people who have never met before to share resources
and trust each other. Information and innovation technologies are used in order to
match individuals who possess such superfluous resources with existing demand in
the market.2
Decentralized platforms are sometimes associatedwith “peer-to-peer” (P2P) tech-
nologies (such as Napster in the late 1990s). However, it is characterized by two very
different business models: (i) Sometimes individuals own and get to share their
assets with each other, like extra rooms (Airbnb3 and Homestay),4 cars (Uber,5 Lyft
and Turo),6 parking spaces (Just Park),7 skills (Taskrabitt)8 and even their own pets
(Rover)9; (ii) In other cases, companies own and lend out the assets, such as cars,
bicycles and motorbikes. Prime examples are Zipcar10 and Car2Go11 now owned by
Avis and Daimler-Benz, respectively.12
It is indisputable that the sharing economy produces an enormous amount of
wealth. In 2015, PriceWaterhouseCoopers projected growth from $15 billion in
global revenue to $335 billion in 2025.13 Faster than ever, we have barely begun
to scratch the surface of the possibilities of innovation and dynamic capability
behind this new economic model.14 However, the extraordinary growth of the shar-
ing economy creates unprecedented legal problems. This book anthology takes up
various disruptive technologies that are currently transforming the legal system
around the world. Such technologies include: cloud computing, Big Data, Internet of
Things (IoT), artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), deep learning (DL),
blockchain, algorithms and other related autonomous systems—such as self-driving
vehicles.
1Sundararajan (2016).
2See, e.g., Malik and Wahaj (2019), p. 249 et seq.
3Maurer (2016), p. 6.
4See Homestay. Available at: https://www.homestay.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
5See Uber. Available at: https://www.uber.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
6See Turo. Available at: http://www.turo.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
7See Justpark. Available at: https://www.justpark.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
8See Taskrabbit. Available at: https://www.taskrabbit.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
9See Rover. Available at: https://www.rover.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
10See Zipcar. Available at: https://www.zipcar.com. Accessed 10 June 2019.
11See Car2go. Available at: https://www.car2go.com/US/en/. Accessed 10 June 2019.
12Cusumano (2018), pp. 26–28.
13PriceWaterhouseCooper (2015), pp. 1–30.
14Gazzola (2017), pp. 75–94.
https://www.homestay.com
https://www.uber.com
http://www.turo.com
https://www.justpark.com
https://www.taskrabbit.com
https://www.rover.com
https://www.zipcar.com
https://www.car2go.com/US/en/
Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies 3
There is no doubt that the expansion of the sharing economy is changing our
world. It has also triggered the emergence of new products and services. As a result,
companies are becoming increasingly more data and algorithm-driven, making use
of so-called “decentralized platforms.” New transaction and/or payment methods
such as Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc., which are based on trust building systems using
blockchain, smart contracts and other distributed ledger technology (DLT) also con-
stitute an essential part of such a new economic model and central to the analysis of
this work.
Most of these digital platforms within the sharing economy rely on cloud-based
infrastructures to operate at the upper level. This paradigm shift would not be pos-
sible without the adoption of cloud computing deployment models and services.
Individuals and companies in general, are fast gearing up for the “on-demand” and
“pay-as-you-go” culture, which constitute the building blocks of cloud computing
transactions.15
All these new technological breakthroughs have brought complex ways of pro-
cessing and analyzing information at a larger scale.16 From a legal perspective, the
uncertainties triggered by the emergence of a new digital reality are particularly
urgent. How should these tendencies be reflected in legal systems in each jurisdic-
tion? This collection brings together a series of contributions by leading scholars in
the emerging field of the sharing economy. The aim of this book is to enrich legal
debates on the social, economic and political meaning of this new economic model
along with these cutting-edge technologies.
It is indisputable that this paradigm shift is changing the scope in which law is
designed, interpreted and applied in a constantly evolving environment. There is,
therefore, an increasing awareness that the traditional concepts and approaches of
the law must be more flexible and expanded to encompass new areas associated
to this new economic model. Based on this new reality, this work aims to provide
insights on some of the key legal topics that will affect the future of our daily lives.
The chapters presented in this edition attempt to answer some of these questions
from the perspective of different legal backgrounds. The aim is to answer some of
these questions from an inter-disciplinary and integrated point of view taking into
account a variety of legal systems.
2 Parts
Addressing the many challenges created by the sharing economy requires going
beyond one single disciplinary perspective or frame of reference. As such, after this
introductory chapter, the book is divided into four parts comprising 12 chapters as fol-
lows: Part I—“Sharing Economy and Platforms;” Part II—“Digital Age and Personal
Data;” Part III—“Blockchain and Code;” and, Part IV—“Autonomous Systems and
15Tandon (2018).
16See, e.g., Chen et al. (2014), p. 12 et seq.
4 M. Corrales Compagnucci et al.
Future Challenges.” Each part focuses on one particular area of the sharing economy
by adopting different approaches and methods.
Part I—“Sharing Economy and Platforms”—focuses on the impact of the sharing
economy as an emerging economic model. The chapters in this section cut across
different aspects of digital platforms, including platforms for building collaboration
and the governance of cities in real world settings using the use case examples of
sharing cities in Seoul and the study of the Japanese housing accommodation legal
system.
Part II—“Digital Age and Personal Data”—has the digital person and the pro-
tection of personal data as its overarching subject. The starting point is that there
is the need to discuss the concept of “digital person” as a new legal entity in light
of the development and application of AI technology. This takes us directly to the
necessity of changing the legal education system and the role of future lawyers as
this will affect the design of the new global architecture. This part also focuses on the
protection of the personal data of individuals in the context of health systems. It does
this by comparing different approaches of consent under the EU General Data Pro-
tection Regulation (GDPR)17 and the specific situations in Australia and the United
Kingdom (UK). The GDPR has been generally well received for strengthening some
of the rules in the previous EU Data Protection Directive18 by granting individuals
more control over their data when using electronic health records. However, it has
also generated hot debate around the world regarding its practicability and flexibility
within modern processing technologies.
Part III—“Blockchain and Code”—discuss blockchain technologies and how
learning the legal issues embedded in the “code” of computer software can help
legal professionals to reinvent themselves. Some think that lawyers or even bankers
and notaries might soon have to offer new services and change the way they do
business otherwise they might become redundant and obsolete.19 The blockchain
is one of the most hyped terms of this new century and it has been said that it can
revolutionize the world.20 Overall, the chapters of this part discuss some of the main
features of blockchain technology to increase trust and transparency in decentralized
networks.
Part IV—“Autonomous Systems and Future Challenges”—looks into some of the
legal implications of autonomous vehicles. Autonomous driving represents a crucial
part of the mobility of the future. However, there are still vexed legal issues. What
17Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on
the protection of natural persons with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free
movement of such data, and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation).
While the Regulation entered into force on 24 May 2016, it applies to all EU Member States from
25 May 2018. See European Commission, Reform of EU Data Protection Rules https://eugdpr.org.
Accessed 10 June 2019.
18Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 October 1995 on the
protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement
of such data.
19Vermeulen (2017).
20Corrales et al. (2019), p. 2 et seq.
https://eugdpr.org
Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies 5
happens for example when there is a car accident? Who should be liable for it? Is it
the AI or automated system software developer? Or, is it the auto manufacturer who
assembled the car pieces together? How shall we handle the insurance companies?
In sum, how can we reduce and mitigate these legal risks?21 These are just some of
the main questions that come to our minds immediately when we are talking about
driverless cars. The chapters in this section explore some of the legal problems and
suggest that this will affect the sharing economy, whichmight not be ready yet to face
these problems. Finally, the remaining chapter of this part discusses the protection
of trade secrets in light of the new EU Directive on the protection of trade secrets
and outlines the options for implementation.
3 Chapters
After this introduction, the book comprises twelve substantive chapters. Part I—
Sharing Economy and Platforms—consists of three contributions.
Annelise Riles starts by explaining the collaborative genius of today’s intercon-
nected world. The image of the lonely genius working by himself in his office is
largely over. The pervasive and dynamic nature of our current society presents dif-
ficult technical and legal questions. Transactions frequently take part in complex
relationships where several actors are involved across different jurisdictions. There-
fore, the genius of our time is a collaborative genius. From the business world to the
academy, and from the leading financial centers to grassroots development projects
around the world, collaboration is increasingly perceived as a necessity. This chapter
deals with some of these challenges, and also some of the possibilities that are inher-
ent in collaboration, taking into account the example of a recent experiment with
Meridian 180, a global engagement platform for policy experimentation founded in
2011.
Benjamen Franklen Gussen retains a focus on the impact of the sharing econ-
omy on the governance of cities using the lessons learnt from the Sharing City
Seoul Project. The chapter starts by explaining the historical grounds of collabora-
tion among societies. The analysis suggests that collaboration was always present in
different forms from the beginning of civilization. The nature of collaboration, how-
ever, shifted to a hierarchical organizationalmodel as a result of increasing population
density. This led to the emergence of new thriving cities and markets. The arrival of
newwaves of technological innovation in the 21st century, however, brought with it a
new change to a network organization and collaboration. This innovation allows for
a return to a network organization at a scale (population-density) never seen before.
Seoul is a very good example of this paradigm shift as it is one of the leading cities
when it comes to innovation in the sharing economy. Its experience has influenced
already other major cities across the world. The chapter explains the policy inter-
ventions that took place in Seoul to inform future approaches to governing cities in
21https://www.daimler.com/innovation/case/autonomous/legal-framework.html.
https://www.daimler.com/innovation/case/autonomous/legal-framework.html
6 M. Corrales Compagnucci et al.
other countries and looks at the role of law in enabling cities as a supple network of
digital technologies that stimulate innovation within the sharing economy.
Yuichiro Watanabe focuses on a study of the Japanese Housing Accommodation
Business Act (Act No. 65 of 2017), which is the first national law in the world legit-
imizing home-sharing. The starting point of this chapter is to explain the making
process of the new Japanese Housing Accommodation Business Act, which came
into effect in 2018 after 3 years of negotiations. The chapter also explains the pre-
vious regulatory framework which had remained almost untouched since 1948. The
chapter identifies and reviews three legal issues: (a) extraterritorial application out-
side of Japan; (b) lacking the consistency between the other existing Japanese laws
in terms of regulating digital platforms; and (c) illegal local ordinance beyond the
Act, preventing the sharing economy by imposing additional restrictions. Finally, the
author suggests that the Act might not be the best model to be implemented in other
jurisdictions.
Part II—Digital Age and Personal Data—comprises three chapters.
Cecilia Magnusson Sjöberg discusses the concept of “digital person” as a new legal
entity taking into consideration the recent development and application of AI tech-
nology. The purpose is not to just add another term to those of the natural person
and the legal person, but to introduce a concept that could eventually, under certain
circumstances, be implemented in the legal order. This new legal figure could also,
tentatively, be granted legal capacity, with rights and responsibilities. This new legal
person i.e., the “digital person” would as such be possible to describe as a constella-
tion of algorithms consisting of a basic algorithmic identity, which could be profiled
and specified with reference to various purposes. The risk is otherwise an emerging
dysfunctional legal society where there is no legal entity, which can take the role of
the subject. Issues that arise concern e.g., self-driving car liability, pricing algorithms
on the competitive market and data protection when profiling consumers.
In their chapter, Janos Mészáros,Chih-Hsing Ho andMarcelo Corrales Compag-
nucci examine the challenges of the revised opt-out system and the secondary use
of health data in the UK. The secondary use of data refers to the processing of data
collected during direct care for new purposes, such as research and policy planning.
The analysis of this data could be very valuable for science and medical treatment as
well as the discovery of new drugs. For this reason, the UK government established
the “care.data program” in 2013. The aim of the project was to build a central nation-
wide database for research and policy planning. However, the processing of personal
data has been planned without proper public engagement, and the central database
was aimed to be used by public and private third-parties, including IT companies.
The care.data program established a double opt-out system which turned out to be
very controversial due to scandals such as the Google DeepMind deal with the U.K.’s
National Health Service (NHS).22 Google’s artificial intelligence firm was allowed
to access health data from over 1.6 million patients to develop an app monitoring
kidney disease called “Streams.” Public concerns and corroborative research studies
22See National Health Service (NHS). Available at: https://www.nhs.uk. Accessed 10 June 2019.
https://www.nhs.uk
Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies 7
suggested that the Google DeepMind deal had access to other kinds of sensitive data
and failed to comply with data protection law.
For this reason, since May 2018, the UK government launched the “national data
opt-out” (ND opt-out) system23 with the hope to regain the public trust. Nevertheless,
there is no evidence of significant changes in the ND opt-out. Neither in the use
of secondary data, nor in the choices that patients can make. The only notorious
difference seems to be in the way that these options are communicated and framed to
the patients. Most importantly, according to the new ND opt-out, the type-1 opt-out
option—which is the only choice that truly stops data frombeing shared outside direct
care—will be removed in 2020. According to the Behavioral Law and Economics
literature (Nudge Theory),24 default rules—such as the revised opt-out system in
the UK—are very powerful, because people tend to stick to the default choice made
readily available to them. The crucial question analyzed in this chapter is whether
it is desirable for the UK government to stop promoting the type-1 opt-outs, and
whether this could be seen as a kind of “hard paternalism.”
Danuta Mendelson focuses on the National Electronic Health Record System and
Consent to the Processing of Health Data in the European Union (EU) and Australia.
She does this by comparing the legal framework in the EU within the scope of the
GDPR in the context of the EU national electronic record (NEHR) schemes with the
approach of the Australian national health record scheme called My Health Record
(MHR).25 The main difference being the different levels of developments of consent
between the two approaches. In the EU, the GDPR proclaims that individuals (data
subjects) should give their consent for the processing of their personal health data
or have the right to refuse the processing of their personal health data not just in
general, but in specific instances. Whereas in Australia, legislators did not predicate
the lawfulness of personal health data processing on the individual data-subject’s
valid and informed consent. For this reason, the creators of the MHR system did
not embed in its architecture the right of patients to give free, informed, specific and
unambiguous indication that they agree to the processing of their personal health
data in every (reasonable) instance. This might be one of reasons why Australia is
not seeking certification for attainment of adequate level of data protection from
the European Commission. The chapter concludes that under the MHR scheme in
Australia, data subjects—in particular those vulnerable patients such as the very
young and the elderly—will remain disempowered data subjects.
Part III of the book—Blockchain and Code—contains three contributions.
In their chapter,Mark Fenwick, Wulf A. Kaal and Erik Vermeulen discuss the impor-
tance for lawyers and law students to learn how to code in this new digital age. The
authors explain the benefits of introducing a Coding for Lawyers course in the legal
23See “national data opt-out” (ND opt-out) system Available at: https://digital.nhs.uk/national-
dataopt-out. Accessed 10 June 2019.
24See, e.g., Thaler and Sunstein (2009).
25SeeMyHealthRecord.Available at: https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au.Accessed 10 June 2019.
https://digital.nhs.uk/national-dataopt-out
https://www.myhealthrecord.gov.au
8 M. Corrales Compagnucci et al.
curriculum and they share their initial experiences with the course. The main argu-
ment is that Legal Technology (LegalTech) is profoundly disrupting the legal profes-
sion and the development of cutting-edge technologies—such as blockchain, AI, Big
Data, smart contracts, etc.—have triggered the emergence of new business models.
The authors conclude that since all these technologies are code-based, lawyers—as
active “transaction engineers”—need to be able to understand and communicate in
and about code to participate in the design of such technologies. The computer code
is ubiquitous by nature, yet hidden. This is affecting the legal framework, particularly
in terms of the on-going legal profession. Therefore, lawyers of the future will be
transaction engineers managing the responsible deployment of new technologies and
the design of a new global architecture, and that to perform this function effectively,
legal professionals need to develop a number of new skills and capacities, including
an understanding of the basic concepts and power of coding.
Craig Calcaterra andWulf A. Kaal explain the reputation protocol for the Internet
of Trust. Trust is very important and became one of the most important drivers in
our global economy. Internet-based platform business outcompetes traditional busi-
ness and DLT shows a lot of promise in multiple business vertical. Studies suggest,
however, that they have not reached their full potential due to the decreasing global
trust in the Internet and under-developed trust in decentralized technology solutions.
Semada and the Semada Research Institute (SRI)26 believe that a decentralized rep-
utation network can reverse that trend to increase trust in the Internet and increase
decentralized technology adoption. The authors call this solution the Semada Inter-
net of Trust—a network that uniquely captures real world information, context, and
value in cryptographic transactions generating transparently validated consensus on
truth. Through the creation of unconscious and conscious trust in decentralized net-
work adoption becomes a desirable outcome and increases. The Semada Internet of
Trust creates a framework of trust through reputation and incentive optimization that
enables market conditions for unprecedented business models and market capital-
ization while reducing adverse selection and moral hazards for transacting parties.
The network will provide information symmetry while reducing transaction costs
for market participants. Businesses will leverage the platform to achieve efficiencies
across verticals.
Gyooho Lee discusses two issues raised by the Korean legal community in terms
of blockchain technology. One is intellectual property-related issues of open source
software on which blockchain technology is based. When it comes to open source
software, one pivotal court case needs to be explored. It is related to the conflict
between the possessor of a trade secret and copyright owner of open source software.
The other issue concerns how to guarantee the authenticity of e-Apostilles by using
blockchain technology. The lack of authenticity of e-Apostilles is a big legal hurdle
which prevents e-Apostilles from gaining popularity in many countries. Blockchain
computing is a good solution for guaranteeing the authenticity of e-Apostilles. The
chapter explores an IP-related issue which inherently concerns blockchain technol-
ogy and proposes a method for ensuring the authenticity of e-Apostilles by using
26See Semada Research Institute (SRI). Available at: https://semada.io. Accessed 10 June 2019.
https://semada.io
Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies 9
blockchain technology. In sum, the chapter illustrates an inherent legal issue of
blockchain technology and blockchain technology as a method to solve a current
legal problem.
Part IV of the book—Autonomous Systems and Future Challenges—comprises three
chapters.
Shinto Teramoto explains the issues of autonomous driving from a lawyer’s perspec-
tive. The development of driverless cars is still in its early stages. At this point, the
focus of attention should be on the safety and user-friendliness of autonomous driv-
ing on public roads. Therefore, the current discussion must be who can effectively
prevent traffic incidents and accidents involving autonomous driving by investing
their own financial, human, and technological resources. Safe autonomous driving is
a product of a well-organized network system. Contending hastily that only specific
classes of nodes should be liable does not make sense. The importance of telecom-
munication predicts that telecom and network service industries will play major
roles in realizing safe road traffic involving autonomous driving. If lawyers discuss
the allocation of cost caused by traffic incidents or accidents involving autonomous
driving without considering the involvement of telecom and network service indus-
tries, it simply shows the carelessness of lawyers. Autonomous driving is the way
to realize the sharing of surplus resources, which have been unused or wasted, by
means of aggressive involvement of information and communication technology
(ICT). The chapter concludes with a suggestion that lawyers should go beyond the
current debate of liability issues caused by traffic accidents and incidents involving
autonomous driving. Yet, the discussion should involve collaborative ways of devel-
oping interfaces and standards for every road traffic participant to effectively and
efficiently communicate with each other.
Steven van Uytsel and Danilo Vasconcellos Vargas discuss some of the legal
implications of adversarial machine learning. Research revealed that perturbations
to a picture—even in small size—may disable a deep neural network from correctly
qualifying the content of a picture. This research has been transplanted to traffic signs.
The test results were disastrous. For example, a perturbated stop sign was recognized
as a speeding sign. Because visualization technology is not able to overcome this
problem yet, the question arises who should be liable for accidents caused by this
technology.Manufacturers are being pointed at and for that reason it has been claimed
that the commercialization of autonomous vehicles may stall. Without autonomous
vehicles, the sharing economy may not fully develop either. This chapter shows that
there are alternatives for the unpredictable financial burden on the car manufacturers
for accidents with autonomous cars. This chapter refers to operator liability, but
argues that for reasons of fairness, this is not a viable choice. A more viable choice
is a no-fault liability on the manufacturer, as this kind of scheme forces the car
manufacturer to be careful but keeps the financial risk predicable. Another option is
to be found outside law. Engineers could build infrastructure enabling automation.
Such infrastructure may overcome the problems of the visualization technology, but
could potentially create a complex web of product and service providers. Legislators
10 M. Corrales Compagnucci et al.
should prevent that the victims of an accident, if it were still to occur, would face years
in court with the various actors of this complexweb in order to receive compensation.
The final chapter, by ThomasHoeren explores some of the provisions enshrined in
the new EUDirective on the protection of trade secrets (Directive (EU) 2016/943).27
The Directive was adopted in June 2016 and is now to be transposed into national law
by June 2018. This led to discussion at national levels whether the protection of trade
secrets should be included in a comprehensive set of rules of intellectual property
rights, or at least regulated by a special law. The chapter focuses on the producer’s
liability in accordance with Article 4 (5) of the Directive and outlines the options for
implementation. The chapter concludes that the Directive will permanently change
European secrecy law. Compared to current German regulations, important differ-
ences can be observed, concerning for example the definition of a trade secret or
the legitimacy of reverse engineering. Therefore, the final implementation of the
Directive can be suspenseful. In the meantime, companies are summoned to conduct
concrete confidentiality measures and to adjust to the changed field of secrets. In this
context, extended nondisclosure agreements and a strategy to deal with the freedom
of reverse engineering are most important. A new culture of secrecy in companies
and with suppliers must be added.
References
Chen M et al (2014) Big data: related technologies, Challenges and future prospects. Springer,
Cham
Corrales M, Fenwick M, Haapio H (2019) Digital technologies, legal design and the future of
legal profession. In: Corrales M, Fenwick M, Haapio H (eds) Legal tech, smart contracts and
blockchain. Springer, Singapore
Cusumano M (2018) The sharing economy meets reality. Commun ACM 61(1):26–28
Gazzola P (2017)Behind the sharing economy: innovation and dynamic capability. In:Vătămănescu
EM, Pînzaru F (eds) Knowledge management in the sharing economy. Springer, Cham
Malik F, Wahaj Z (2019) Sharing economy digital platforms and social inclusion/exclusion: a
research study of uber and careem in Pakistan. In: Nielsen P, Kimaro H (eds) Information and
communication technologies for development: strengthening southern-driven cooperation as a
catalyst for ICT 4D, Part 1. Springer, Cham
Maurer J (2016) Sharing economy: regulatory approaches for combating Airbnb’s controversy
regarding taxation and regulation. GRIN Verlag, Open Publishing GmbH, s.l., Munich
PriceWaterhouseCooper (2015) The sharing economy. Consumer intelligence series https://www.
pwc.fr/fr/assets/files/pdf/2015/05/pwc_etude_sharing_economy.pdf. Accessed 10 Jun 2019
Sundararajan A (2016) The sharing economy: the end of employment and the rise of crowd-based
capitalism. The MIT Press, Cambridge
Tandon A (2018) Cloud computing and birth of the sharing economy. What are the dominat-
ing trends?https://altimetrik.blog/2018/06/27/cloud-computing-birth-of-the-sharing-economy/.
Accessed 10 Jun 2019
27Directive (EU) 2016/943 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on the
protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful
acquisition, use and disclosure.
https://www.pwc.fr/fr/assets/files/pdf/2015/05/pwc_etude_sharing_economy.pdf
https://altimetrik.blog/2018/06/27/cloud-computing-birth-of-the-sharing-economy/
Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies 11
Thaler R, Sunstein C (2009) Nudge: improving decisions about health, wealth, and happiness.
Penguin Books Ltd., New York
Vermeulen E (2017) There is no escape from blockchains and artificial intelligence…. Lawyers bet-
ter be prepared! https://medium.com/@erikpmvermeulen/there-is-no-escape-from-blockchains-
and-artificial-intelligence-lawyers-better-be-prepared-2d7a8221c627. Accessed 10 Jun 2019
https://medium.com/%40erikpmvermeulen/there-is-no-escape-from-blockchains-and-artificial-intelligence-lawyers-better-be-prepared-2d7a8221c627
	 Legal Aspects of Decentralized and Platform-Driven Economies
	1 Introduction
	2 Parts
	3 Chapters
	References