Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching Blockchain
Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching
Blockchain
Walter Dettling(B) and Bettina Schneider
Institute for Information Systems, School of Business, University of Applied Sciences and Arts
Northwestern Switzerland FHNW, Basel, Switzerland
{walter.dettling,bettina.schneider}@fhnw.ch
Abstract. Bloxxgame is a software tool evolving from a whiteboard-based
blockchain game to a web-based simulation game with a variety of teaching
scenarios. It is a simulation of a public blockchain, mostly similar to Bitcoin.
Each player acts as a node with all possibilities of creating coin-transactions and
blocks as well as the capability to experience the consensus algorithm by check-
ing transactions and blocks. Bloxxgame supports experience-based instruction of
blockchain concepts and can be used in class or for online teaching. Moreover, the
simulation offers students the opportunity to experiment with all relevant opera-
tions of a blockchain such as signing, creating transactions, block building, etc. In
this paper, we aim to share our practical experiences from teaching the emerging
technology of blockchain to business or business information technology students
on Bachelor and Master level applying a newly developed gamified teaching app-
roach. The research was guided by the methodology of design-based research.
We elaborate the process starting from problem identification, to designing the
bloxxgame tool and demonstrating its applicability in the 2020 Corona lockdown.
Keywords: Teaching blockchain · Gamification · Design-based research
1 Introduction
In this paper, we present a structured analysis of five years of experimenting with various
blockchain simulation scenarios in classroom. The result is a teaching solution we name
bloxxgame. Bloxxgame is a software tool, which was developed from a whiteboard-
based blockchain game in classroom to a web-based simulation game with a variety of
teaching scenarios. It is a simulation of a public blockchain, mostly similar to Bitcoin,
in which each player acts as a node with all possibilities of creating coin-transactions as
well as blocks. Bloxxgame enables students to learn the consensus algorithmby checking
transactions and blocks. It supports experience-based instruction of blockchain concepts
and can be used in class or for online teaching. Moreover, the game offers students the
opportunity to experiment with all relevant operations of a blockchain such as hashing,
signing, block building, etc. The game experience supports the understanding of the
abstract and complexblockchainmechanism.This is especially the case for the consensus
algorithm, which bloxxgame simulates very closely.
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020
I. Marfisi-Schottman et al. (Eds.): GALA 2020, LNCS 12517, pp. 169–178, 2020.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-63464-3_16
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-63464-3_16&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-8442-1982
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8460-3658
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-63464-3_16
170 W. Dettling and B. Schneider
This paper summarizes the first teaching experiences, especially in the 2020 Corona
lockdown, where it was used for instruction and as examination tool in a blockchain
elective course. In addition, an outlook to further research on the impact of this tool, and
to next steps in the development are provided.
2 Methodology
The methodology used to develop this teaching tool comes closest to design-based
research [1]. This method is appropriate to the complexity of teaching blockchain and
building artifacts. It is a common approach in information system research, which is
another argument for this method, as we look at blockchain in regard of its role in this
field. According to Pfeffers et al. [2], the research design consists of the following steps:
1. Problem identification and motivation; 2. Objectives of a solution; 3. Design and
development; 4. Demonstration; 5. Evaluation; 6. Communication
Although the research design is nominally ordered and structured, the research pro-
cess often does not follow these steps in a linear order [2]. In this ex post report of our
research, the chapter sequence follows the six-step structure. Nevertheless, throughout
the real research process, we made different loops and side steps. This paper is neither
a general introduction to blockchain, nor a user manual for bloxxgame. The description
of the software and its functions are restricted to the minimum, which is necessary for
the explanation of the design process. Details about bloxxgame are available at: https://
bloxx-wiki.herokuapp.com/.
3 Problem Identification and Objectives of the Solution
Although blockchain has been used and taught for a couple of years, it remains a very
abstract concept, mostly described by its properties such as distributed ledger or storing
transactions in blocks. To understand these blockchain elements, cryptographic functions
such as hashing or signing must be introduced. When the term ‘mining’ comes up,
explanations become harder. Building a block of transactions, solving a hash puzzle,
attaching it to the longest valid chain and creating new cryptocurrencies, etc. are complex
subjects. Finally, when the ‘consensus algorithm’ must be explained the gap between
reality and abstraction grows even more. This is due to the dynamics emerging from the
interaction of many independent actors following the rules of the consensus protocol.
However, the mechanism or protocol of a blockchain is a complex, dynamic process,
which involvesmany elements in variousways.Onlywhen the interaction of the elements
is recognized, the mechanism of blockchain can be fully understood.
Following Dettling [3] in “How to Teach Blockchain in a Business School”,
blockchain courses can address three dimensions: First, the building blocks of
blockchain, which are necessary to understand the basic mechanism of blockchain.
Topics such as hashing, signatures, consensus algorithm, etc. belong to this category.
Second, the relevance or the impact of blockchain in business, which is for the time being
represented by topics such as cryptocurrencies, smart contracts, legal issues, etc. Third,
the applications of blockchain where nowadays most blockchain startups are active and
https://bloxx-wiki.herokuapp.com/
Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching Blockchain 171
which is a very dynamic field.Here, almost each industry has its own ecosystem requiring
specific solutions for various use cases.
We focus on the first dimension, the mechanism of blockchain. This by the con-
viction, that a basic understanding of blockchain is a necessary precondition to fully
understand the impact and application of blockchain. This assumption could change in
the future, when blockchain has been universally adopted and seamlessly integrated into
software systems. Today, software developers and business strategists are still searching
for another ‘killer’ application besides Bitcoin. Consequently, qualified knowledge is
still necessary to make strategic business decisions aiming at the use of blockchain. As
our developed teaching approach incorporates gamification, the next section will focus
on reviewing the relevant literature in this field.
3.1 Literature Review
Background of Gamification as Teaching Approach
To understand the term gamification, it is necessary to turn to the origin of this concept,
namely the play. Piaget [4], a pioneer and enduring influencer in educational research,
laid the foundations for integrating the idea of ‘play’ into didactic scenarios. He was the
first to introduce the theory of constructivism, a learning situation in which the learners’
knowledge and meanings are ‘constructed’ through the interaction of their ideas and
experiences. Constructivist learning presupposes the necessity of experiential learning
through social interaction with the environment and peers [5]. A statement of Piaget [4]
confirms this: “You cannot teach concepts verbally; you must use a method founded on
activity”. One such activity may be ‘playing‘, and the play is regarded as one central
pattern for active and spontaneous children’s learning.
Transferring the idea of ‘play’ to adult education and the corporate learning setting
has led to the term gamification. As additional concept, the term serious games has
gained relevance and it denotes games designed to convey learning material [6].
State of Gamification as Approach to Teach Blockchain
A systematic literature review of studies published in the scientific databases Web of
Science, IEEE Xplore, ACM Digital Library, google scholar and SpringerLink was
performed. The term ‘blockchain’ was combined with the keyword ‘gamification’ and
subsequently with keywords like ‘teaching’, ‘learning’ and ‘education’. From the result
set we excluded studies that investigate the use of blockchain technology as a means
of supporting processes in the education sector or that use blockchain technology as a
technological basis for virtual games.We focused on studies inEnglish language that deal
with the question of how blockchain can be taught or learned as a subject. Furthermore,
only studies that are available online as full text were considered for this review.
Most of the identified publications examine ways in which blockchain can be inte-
grated into existing curricula of higher education institutions. Toleva-Stoimenova et al.
[7] share their experience concerning the incorporation of blockchain content into exist-
ing data science curricula for master’s programs. Purden et al. [8] generally advocate
using a blockchain application in the cloud for classes thus avoiding the need for hard-
ware; Dettling [3] proposes specific subject structures for teaching business students. In
172 W. Dettling and B. Schneider
line with the latter, teaching blockchain to non-technical students is the focus of Negash
and Thomas [9]. They developed seven use cases from industry (e.g. aviation, healthcare
car, supply chain) to achieve the learning objectives. Kursh et al. [10] evaluate blockchain
as a topic in Fintec curricula and offer categorization according to several dimensions
such as level of detail, format, and emphasis.
Few more detailed approaches towards blockchain teaching can be found in recent
publications. The first example is a role play combined with 3D animations [11]. The
game simulates a classroom and offers a puzzle to the learners, where questions related
to blockchains have to be answered to get to the next levels. A second research result
is a Java application called ‘ChainTutor’, enabling users to experiment with important
blockchain concepts through a graphical user interface [12]. The application is capable
of simulating low-level details of a blockchain such as the generation of keys, hashes,
transactions, blocks and wallets. As a third approach, Rao and Dave [13] explain how
they developed a hands-on lab using a Raspberry Pi to instruct students on embedded
systems with elements of cloud and blockchain technology.
3.2 Application of Gamification Theory in Bloxxgame
As evidenced by the literature research, the application of gamification to the topic of
blockchain is still in its infancy. Adding game elements to a learning situation does
not per se add value; rather an appropriate didactic concept is an important prerequisite
for successful implementation [14]. For this reason, we proposed different teaching
scenarios, which have been developed based on practical experience.
In all scenarios, bloxxgame offers a simulation of a blockchain. A simulation can
be defined as a method of implementing a representation of a system, an entity, a phe-
nomenon, or a process over time [15]. Simulations attempt to capture relevant aspects of
a topic or phenomenon to allow learners to interact in order to observe the effects of their
interactions [16]. These simulations are not only effective in situations where real-world
contact is dangerous or expensive (e.g., flight simulators), but also in situations where the
topic in focus is very abstract or complex (e.g., [17]). Blockchain is a highly challenging
subject that requires the learner to understand concepts in the field of economics, finance,
and information technology, in particular cryptography. In addition, the mechanisms of
blockchain are inherently very abstract, given that they occur in cyberspace. Therefore,
it is very promising to simulate the essential operations of blockchain to help individuals
‘experience’ the technology and see the impact of own actions.
3.3 Objectives of the Solution
The solution we were looking for was a teaching method and/or a tool, which enables
learners to gain a profound understanding of the basic blockchain mechanism. We
expected that after the instruction, students should be able to describe the main elements
and give a coherent explanation of the mechanism of a blockchain. At best, the tool
should also provide means to evaluate this understanding. Once the tool was developed,
we recognized that it was more than just a demonstrator or teaching lab in the class-
room, but that it could also be used as a blockchain simulation game. Therefore, another
Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching Blockchain 173
objective of this solution could be added: It should provide an authentic experience of
the consensus algorithm.
4 Design and Development of the Solution
When designing bloxxgame, it was important to reduce complexity, without neglecting
relevant aspects of the topic. We decided to focus on a public blockchain, which issues
coins and only allows transactions of integer coins from one address to another. This
comes very closely to Bitcoin although there are some important differences to the
Bitcoin protocol.
4.1 Design of the Software
In the beginning, we used paper and whiteboards to simulate coin transactions and
build blocks with them. It helped the students to visualize the different steps of the
blockchain algorithm, but the necessary reduction of reality was disadvantageous since
many important things such as hashing, or signing were left out. Thus, the idea of a
software-based simulation became imminent. The main elements of the software were
derived from the classroom experience.
Fig. 1. Bloxxgame Play-Board. Nine boxes represent all relevant functions for blockchain
transactions and display the status of the active blockchain seen as a node in real-time.
Normally, simplicity in software design is achieved by automating processes to help
the user easily accomplish complex tasks. In bloxxgame we aimed at the opposite. No
automatedoperations are implemented; only basic functions such as hashing, asymmetric
174 W. Dettling and B. Schneider
encryption and decryption, as well as broadcasting data to the blockchain network are
provided as encapsulated functions.
All design decisions were based on two main criteria− simplicity, and transparency.
The result of this was a one-screen-board containing a complete set of functions,
which are used in blockchains (Fig. 1). These functions are organized in logical units,
which are called boxes. In total, nine boxes comprise the game front-end: Nodes, Wallet,
Signature, Unspent Transactions, Mempool, Blockchain, Hasher, Merkle, Block. Each
box consists of a set of data and functions, which can be treated as a single learning
topic.
There is a second screen (called ‘admin’) only for teachers (Fig. 2). The admin can
reset or initiate a new blockchain by sending coins to the wallets of each player when
creating the genesis block. The difficulty and reward for mining can also be adjusted.
When the admin marks a new block as ‘confirmed’, all related transactions get the
same status for all players. There is also a ‘view’-mode where the admin can see all
nodes and the transactions initiated or received by them. In bloxxgame, the students stay
anonymous, only the node address of active players is shown to the teacher.
Fig. 2. Bloxxgame Admin-Board. Teacher can start, overview and influence the outcome of a
bloxxgame session within the limits of the bloxxgame consensus algorithm.
4.2 Teaching Scenarios with Bloxxgame
Wepropose three elementary teaching scenarios when applying bloxxgame. For students
with little or no knowledge in blockchain, it is recommended to start with scenario 1,
before trying scenario 2 or 3. However, it would also be possible to start immediately
Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching Blockchain 175
with a blockchain-building session without instructions. In any case, all scenarios are
suitable for class instruction or for online teaching.
Scenario 1: Understanding the Basic Elements of Blockchain
In this initial scenario, the boxes can be used for explanation or experimenting with
the various core concepts of blockchain, e.g. hashing, signing data, building a Merkle
tree, etc. One important aspect is the ‘check function’, which shows up in several boxes.
The check function supports the comparison of hash values or is executed to confirm
the validity of signed data. Students using the bloxxgame tool for the first time can be
supported by teachers in different ways. For example, teachers can start with bloxxgame
as a demonstrator tool for instruction and then let the students have their own experiences.
In class, this can be done either in groups or each student can work on a separate node.
Scenario 2: Interacting with the Blockchain
After a first inspection of the basic boxes (Fig. 1), the next step would be to use functions,
which have an impact on the blockchain status. Before students can startwith this activity,
the teachermust create the genesis block. Themain operations at this level are the creation
of transactions or blocks. Both operations are complex activities with several steps and
involve multiple boxes simultaneously. At this point, each player will get in contact with
the activities of other players. For example, transactions, which are broadcast, will show
up in the mempool box of each player, and blocks, which are published, will be attached
to the existing blockchain in the blockchain box. At this level latest, the learning process
takes on a dynamic of its own for each player.
After experimenting, different topics canbe reflected in class: In addition, the creation
of transactions and blocks, the most important topics are the checking of transactions in
the mempool, the checking of blocks as well as the process of block confirmation. The
role of teachers in this scenario can vary from individual coaching to additional class
instructions on topics such as forking or double spending. In addition, the teacher must
decide on the block status. Onlywhen a block gets the status ‘confirmed’, the transactions
in the block are considered in themempool, in thewallets and in the unspent transactions.
In this scenario, individual or group work is possible.
Scenario 3: Immerging into the Blockchain
When students are familiar with the functions and operations of bloxxgame, the next
level is a scenario where the whole blockchain is reset and all players acting as nodes
have to login again. After the creation of the genesis block, the students can start to create
transactions and blocks. Teachers can guide the students by announcing tasks they should
perform, e.g. sending coins to a specific address, creating a block with a specific number
of transactions, identifying inconsistent transactions in the mempool, etc. There is no
fixed ‘finish line’ in the game, so it would make sense to either limit the number of
blocks, which should be built or the time until the game is closed. In this scenario, the
teacher onlymust observe the block creation and decide, onwhich branch the blockchain
will grow. Normally students behave competitively without further instruction. The fact
that they can earn coins by coinbase transactions with each block they create, and which
is confirmed, results in a high intensity for all participants.
176 W. Dettling and B. Schneider
In a later chapter, we will show that scenario 3 gives ground for further analysis and
development of bloxxgame. Again, this approach enables individual as well as group
work.
5 Demonstration of Bloxxgame
The demonstration phase in the research process should prove that the solution works
and achieves the objectives set for this solution [2]. So far, we have used bloxxgame
in different classes with students of varying technical skills (bachelor in business eco-
nomics, in business information technology, and executive master). We always could
properly work with the software and focus on the teaching experiences. Exemplarily, we
describe the case of one class in the next paragraphs.
In spring 2020, bloxxgame was used for teaching an elective class for students of
information systems. We used bloxxgame to instruct and train the understanding of
underlying algorithms and the mechanism of using a blockchain for distributed transac-
tion handling. After four sessions in class, the Corona lockdown forced distance teach-
ing in this course. The combination of online-teaching software with the web-based
playground of bloxxgame was a good setting for this new situation. Especially the one-
screen design was helpful for online classes. Students could follow the instructions in the
teacher’s screen and experiment in a separate window on their own node of bloxxgame.
Teachers and students agreed on using a game session (scenario 3) for the final grading
of the practical part of the course. The students had to perform a couple of actions such
as hashing, signing, creating, and checking transactions, as well as creating an own val-
idated block in the blockchain. The grading based on the blockchain data, which could
be linked to the students by their submission of the respective node address with hashes
of transactions or of the performed actions. The outcome was positive and allowed a
clear distinction between different levels of blockchain understanding.
6 Evaluation
Once the demonstration of the solution proved its feasibility, a formal evaluation of the
outcome of bloxxgame becomes necessary. Gamification, which was not in focus of the
solution at the beginning emerged as an important characteristic of bloxxgame. Espe-
cially in teaching scenario 3, students began to engage more emotionally. In discussions
after the game, students showed more interest and awareness regarding networks or the
social aspect of cooperation. This opened the field for advanced teaching topics about
the role of blockchain in society. Additionally, feedback from students was used for the
further development of the game. For example, the possibility to change the difficulty
for mining was induced by students’ wish for more competition. So far, formal feed-
back from students about bloxxgame was part of the overall evaluation of blockchain
courses. Now, having a tool which can be used for a stand-alone activity, a systematic
evaluation can be considered. For a formal evaluation, the following aspects are of inter-
est: Topic mastery, entertainment, socialization. The next paragraph elaborates on more
information about planned research.
Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching Blockchain 177
7 Communication and Outlook
Communication in design science research has the purpose to expose the result of the
study to other experts and researchers to prove or improve the result. So far, bloxxgame
has only been communicated within a small group of teachers and blockchain experts.
With this paper, we hope to increase attention and receive feedback from other teachers,
which could help to improve our solution. The order of reaction and the grade of interest
in this teaching approach will also be relevant for further development, such as making
bloxxgame publicly available.
Bloxxgame will need further improvement if it should become a publicly avail-
able teaching tool. The following activities are ongoing or planned. A research project
examines the impact of bloxxgame on the learning success of students. With pre- and
post-game surveyswewill compare the knowledge increase induced bydifferent learning
scenarios. In addition, students will be asked about their subjective learning experience
and for ideas to improve the outcome. A second project will extend the technical infras-
tructure of bloxxgame. So far, bloxxgame is only usable in one instance. To become a
multi-teacher, multiclass software and some additional programming will be necessary.
8 Conclusion
By exploring, experimenting, and playing bloxxgame, students will learn and under-
stand how the most elementary components of an information system, the transaction, is
handled in the blockchain. Although this looks like a very technical perspective, it will
be understandable for everybody through the demonstrative form.
The second thing learners should experience and understand is the social and eco-
nomic aspect of a public blockchain. For most people, the term ‘consensus algorithm’ is
very abstract. When playing bloxxgame, they can experience the role of (social) inter-
action implied by the consensus algorithm. In bloxxgame each player will experience
how the behavior of all participants decides on the outcome of the game.
For teachers, bloxxgame also offers many opportunities for discoveries and experi-
ments. Bloxxgame is a playground with transparent functions and no automated checks
or autofill functions, etc. Like in a board game, users are free to follow the suggestions
of the game manual or to define own actions and procedures, as long as they are possible
within the existing framework.
References
1. Hevner, A.R., March, S.T., Park, J., Ram, S.: Design science in information systems research.
MIS Q. 24(1), 75–105 (2004).
2. Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M.A., Chatterjee, S.: A design science research
methodology for information systems research. J. Manag. Inf. Syst. 24(3), 45–77 (2007)
3. Dettling, W.: How to teach blockchain in a business school. In: Dornberger, R. (ed.) Business
Information Systems and Technology 4.0. SSDC, vol. 141, pp. 213–225. Springer, Cham
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-74322-6_14
4. Piaget, J.: La naissance de I’intelligence chez I’enfant. Delachaux et Niestle, Geneva (1936)
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-74322-6_14
178 W. Dettling and B. Schneider
5. York, J., deHaan, J.W.: A constructivist approach to game-based language learning: student
perceptions in a beginner-level EFL context. Int. J. Game-Based Learn. 8(1), 19–40 (2018)
6. Deterding, S., Dixon, D., Khaled, R., Nacke, L.: From game design elements to gamefulness:
defining ”gamification”. In: Proceedings of the 15th International Academic Mindtrek Con-
ference: Envisioning Future Media Environments, Mindtrek 2011. ACM Press, New York,
New York, USA (2011)
7. Toleva-Stoimenova, S., Christozov, D., Rasheva-Yordanova, K.: Introduction of emerging
technology into higher education curriculum: the case of blockchain technology as part of data
science master program. In: 9th International Conference the Future of Education, Florence
Italy (2019)
8. Purdon, I., Erturk, E.: Perspectives of blockchain technology, its relation to the cloud and its
potential role in computer science education. Eng. Technol. Appl. Sci. Res. 7(6), 2340–2344
(2017)
9. Negash, S., Thomas, D.. Teaching blockchain for business. In: 2019 IEEE Canadian
Conference of Electrical and Computer Engi-neering (CCECE), pp. 1–4. IEEE (2019)
10. Kursh, S.R., Gold, N.A.: Adding FinTech and blockchain to your curriculum. Bus. Educ.
Innovation J. 8(2), 6–12 (2016)
11. Weng, T., Li, C.-K., Wu, C.-H.: Integrating the combination of blockchain and RPG into
undergraduate learning. In: Rønningsbakk, L., Wu, T.-T., Sandnes, F.E., Huang, Y.-M. (eds.)
ICITL 2019. LNCS, vol. 11937, pp. 513–524. Springer, Cham (2019). https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-030-35343-8_55
12. Liu, X.: A small java application for learning blockchain. In: 2018 IEEE 9th Annual
Information Technology, Electronics and Mobile Communication Conference (IEMCON),
pp. 1271–1275. IEEE (2018)
13. Rao, A.R., Dave, R.: Developing hands-on laboratory exercises for teaching STEM students
the internet-of-things, cloud computing and blockchain applications. In: 2019 IEEE Integrated
STEM Education Conference (ISEC), pp. 191–198. IEEE (2019)
14. ter Vrugte, J., de Jong, T.: How to adapt games for learning: the potential role of instructional
support. In: De Wannemacker, S., Vandercruysse, S., Clarebout, G. (eds.) ITEC/CIP/T 2011.
CCIS, vol. 280, pp. 1–5. Springer, Heidelberg (2012). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-338
14-4_1
15. Fujimoto, R., Bock, C., Chen, W., Page, E., Panchal, J.H.: Research Challenges in Modeling
andSimulation forEngineeringComplexSystems. Springer,Heidelberg (2017). 10.1007/978-
3-319-58544-4
16. Hays, R.T.: The Effectiveness of Instructional Games: A Literature Review and Discus-
sion. Technical report (2005). http://faculty.uoit.ca/kapralos/csci5530/Papers/hays_instructio
nalGames.pdf. Accessed 03 June 2020
17. Schwarzenbach, M., Schneider, B.: Teaching data standards using learning applications: a
game-based example from supply chain management. In: Dermol, V. (ed.): Integrated Econ-
omy and Society: Diversity, Creativity, and Technology. Proceedings of the MakeLearn and
TIIM International Conference, pp. 581–587. ToKnowPress, Bangkok, Celje, Lublin (2018)
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-35343-8_55
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-33814-4_1
http://faculty.uoit.ca/kapralos/csci5530/Papers/hays_instructionalGames.pdf
	Bloxxgame – A Simulation Game for Teaching Blockchain
	1 Introduction
	2 Methodology
	3 Problem Identification and Objectives of the Solution
	3.1 Literature Review
	3.2 Application of Gamification Theory in Bloxxgame
	3.3 Objectives of the Solution
	4 Design and Development of the Solution
	4.1 Design of the Software
	4.2 Teaching Scenarios with Bloxxgame
	5 Demonstration of Bloxxgame
	6 Evaluation
	7 Communication and Outlook
	8 Conclusion
	References