Game-theoretic Designs for Blockchain-based IoT: Taxonomy and Research Directions
Game-theoretic Designs for Blockchain-based IoT:
Taxonomy and Research Directions
Fatemeh Erfan1, Martine Bellaiche1, and Talal Halabi2
1Polytechnique Montréal, Montréal, QC, Canada
2Université Laval, Québec, QC, Canada
Corresponding Author: 1fatemeh.erfan@polymtl.ca
Abstract—In the last few years, the combination of the In-
ternet of Things (IoT) and blockchain technologies has widely
attracted significant research attention from academia and the
industry due to the salient characteristics of blockchain and its
natural compatibility with the functional requirements of IoT
architectures. Despite the advantages of utilizing the blockchain
in IoT systems, several issues have been raised regarding the
mitigation of security attacks on blockchain-based IoT systems,
management of blockchain operations, node communications,
energy consumption, efficient consensus algorithm design, data
sharing, and edge/fog computing. Many of the solutions proposed
in the literature tried to address these issues using game-
theoretic models. This paper surveys and investigates state-of-
the-art blockchain-based IoT solutions leveraging game theory
to address common issues in blockchain design. The developed
taxonomy enabled us to highlight existing challenges to the
integration of game theory models into the design of blockchain-
driven IoT and bring forward some critical research questions.
Index Terms—Internet of Things, blockchain design, game
theory, security, consensus algorithms.
I. INTRODUCTION
The security and privacy of Internet of Things (IoT) have
attracted tremendous research efforts. IoT devices generate and
process data that may contain sensitive information, creating
vulnerabilities that can be exploited by confidentiality and
integrity threats. To address these, traditional cryptographic
techniques such as attribute-based encryption, identity-based
encryption, and public-key systems have been applied. How-
ever, they tend to be expensive in terms of energy consump-
tion, processing, and storage. In addition, they require highly
centralized architectures, which raise several deployment and
scalability challenges and exacerbate single points of failure.
Blockchain technology provides a platform to tackle IoT
security concerns and alleviate the inherent bottleneck of fast-
growing IoT networks that rely on centralized servers [1].
Despite the significant benefits of integrating the blockchain
within IoT, it entails several challenges that can be broken
down into seven major areas: security, blockchain operations,
communication, edge/fog computing, energy consumption,
consensus algorithm, and data sharing in scenarios involving
devices with constrained capabilities. Furthermore, emerging
blockchain-based IoT systems should be analyzed and com-
pared against state-of-the-art architectures in terms of security,
privacy, communication, and storage overheads. Moreover,
despite the benefits of blockchain in mitigating some security
attacks against IoT including single point of failure, Sybil,
flooding, and jamming [2], there exist other security attacks
driven by the blockchain itself that could be launched against
the IoT platform. These include selfish, withholding, majority,
and Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) attacks [3].
To avoid these threats, some researchers usually investi-
gate and analyze the strategies executed by the IoT nodes
using game theory models that can be effectively applied to
predict the behavior of participating nodes and their defense
strategies. Also, during the consensus algorithm, semi-honest
or malicious entities participating in the system intend to
maximize their benefits by deviating from the protocol. Hence,
these nodes will not broadcast their mined blocks; instead,
they will hold on to them to maximize their revenue. In
such scenarios, game-theoretic approaches can be applied to
enable the system to strategically analyze the communications
among participants to predict malicious behaviors and adopt
optimized punishment strategies toward selfish nodes.
In general, game theory can be leveraged in blockchain-
based IoT systems to address existing challenges. For in-
stance, by adopting the blockchain, the design must determine
how to manage computational resources, maximize rewards,
and choose the nonce selection strategy. In particular, in a
blockchain like Bitcoin, participants exploit their computa-
tional resources to solve the difficult cryptographic puzzle
and gain a reward. In blockchain-based IoT, devices joining
the system normally have limited computational resources and
must compete with each other to gain access to limited energy
resources to support computing. Hence, game theory models
can be used to solve such non-cooperative optimization prob-
lems. Last, but not least, game theory can be used in designing
the consensus algorithm. As the miners in the blockchain are
IoT devices with limited computational resources, performing
Proof of Work (PoW) or other consensus algorithms may
not be suitable. Therefore, Proof of Game (PoG) has been
proposed to improve the efficiency of IoT systems [4]–[7].
The goal of this paper is to attract the attention of the
research community toward the potential applications of game
theory in blockchain-based IoT systems. To the best of our
knowledge, this is the first work focusing on the applications
and benefits of game theory in blockchain-based IoT systems.
The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
27
2022 4th IEEE International Conference on Decentralized Applications and Infrastructures (DAPPS)
DOI 10.1109/DAPPS55202.2022.00012
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 D
ec
en
tra
liz
ed
 A
pp
lic
at
io
ns
 a
nd
 In
fr
as
tru
ct
ur
es
 (D
A
PP
S)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-9
17
2-
3/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
D
A
PP
S5
52
02
.2
02
2.
00
01
2
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
• We overview the various game theory models that have
been integrated into the design of blockchain-based IoT.
• We survey, analyze, and classify existing work present-
ing game-theoretic approaches to tackle security, perfor-
mance, and management issues in blockchain-based IoT
systems into a comprehensive and timely taxonomy.
• We provide an insightful discussion and highlight the re-
search questions and open challenges related to exploiting
game theory for blockchain designs in future IoT.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section
II presents background information and concepts. Section III
proposes a taxonomy of game theory applied to blockchain-
based IoT. Section IV discusses the research gaps and future
research areas. Finally, Section V concludes the paper.
II. BACKGROUND CONCEPTS
Blockchain-based IoT systems normally contain the
blockchain as a component within their global architecture
[8]. This section provides background knowledge of IoT
and blockchain as well as game-theoretic concepts to al-
low the reader to acquire a comprehensive understanding of
Blockchain-based IoT and better grasp its design challenges.
Blockchain is one of the disruptive technologies of the last
decade. It provides a distributed platform to run decentralized
service architectures such as IoT and edge computing [2], and
can be effectively used to respond to the security and privacy
requirements of most IoT domains by enabling a secure and
transparent ledger system [9]. The literature provides several
surveys on security issues and blockchain solutions in IoT
systems [1], [10], [11]. Nonetheless, the application of game
theory to address blockchain design challenges in various
scenarios has also been gaining significant traction [3].
A. IoT Systems
IoT has brought new service paradigms across different
sectors such as health, autonomous transportation, and various
industries. It plays a crucial role in turning homes into smart
homes and cities into smart cities [9]. IoT involves smart
devices that can upload data to the Internet and control the
decisions of cyber-physical processes. They can be monitored
and controlled remotely using mobile applications such as in
smart hospitals and factories. IoT consists of four main layers:
the perception layer consisting of sensors and actuators; the
network layer (edge-fog-cloud communications) responsible
for transferring the data from devices for processing in upper
layers; the processing layer leveraging the cloud environment
to perform some computational tasks; and the application layer
delivered via end-user devices. In all layers, data confidential-
ity, integrity, and privacy need to be maintained.
IoT raises many vulnerabilities that can lead to security
threats. Attacks at the perception layer include side channel,
device tampering, and fake node injection [10]. Attacks at
the networking layer include Sybil and man-in-the-middle. At
the processing layer, data corruption and DDoS attacks could
affect the cloud server and delivered services. Finally, attacks
carried out against the application layer are mainly driven by
malware such as viruses, worms, rootkits, and ransomware.
Several security attacks and privacy issues in IoT can be
addressed using the blockchain [2]. These include the lack
of trusted communication channels (intra-system and inter-
system), threats brought by single points of failure, and data
integrity (e.g., can be addressed using consensus algorithms).
Blockchain provides an infrastructure to implement secure
and efficient IoT systems by effectively integrating its secure
and decentralized platform, and can be applied in most IoT
domains such as the Internet of Vehicles (IoV), autonomous
drones, smart grids, healthcare IoT, and supply chains.
B. Blockchain Technology
The blockchain is a decentralized system that allows trans-
actions to be verified by a group of unreliable entities [12]. For
instance, Bitcoin is a Blockchain concept and one of the virtual
cryptocurrencies that has revolutionized the mechanisms in
money transfer. To best understand emerging blockchain-based
IoT systems, it is important to acquire basic knowledge of the
components, types, and significant features of blockchain.
Block: Each transaction transmitted through the blockchain
is stored in a block. A sequential chain of blocks created by
miners is called a blockchain. Each block includes two parts,
the header and body. Data as a transaction is stored in the body
part of a data structure called the Merkle tree. It keeps hashing
transactions in pairs until a single hash called the Merkle Root
is obtained [9]. The block header consists of the identity of the
current block, the previous block, a timestamp, and a nonce.
Miner: Once a new block is created by a miner, it is added to
the blockchain through the following steps. Miners perform a
consensus algorithm to solve a cryptographic puzzle. Then,
members in the blockchain validate the created block. To
verify a transaction, a local copy of all transactions is not
required, and the verification phase can be done by using the
Merkle tree stored in the block. Finally, a reward is given to the
miner and verified transactions are stored in the blockchain.
Consensus algorithm: In general, it is used to validate the
blockchain and add new blocks. This is an approach to mining
a block through the blockchain. As part of all consensus
algorithms, participants should verify the transaction stored
in a new block. Every transaction has a unique ID which is
the cryptographic hash of the corresponding transaction’s in-
formation stored in the block. Table I compares the consensus
protocols used in different blockchain platforms [6], [13]–[15].
• Proof of Work (PoW) is the first consensus algorithm used
in blockchain such as the Bitcoin network. It requires the
participants to use their capacities for solving the hard
cryptographic puzzle. Publishing new blocks under the
PoW protocol is called “mining”. Miners try to find a
nonce and should have powerful computational resources
to perform the proof of work.
• Proof of Stake (PoS) is used in blockchains such as
Ethereum, where the term “miner” is replaced with
“validator”. Here, there is no race among participants to
find the nonce value and solve the puzzle. One validator
is selected for mining based on its proportional stake
28
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
including its economic share in the network. This is
done in a pseudorandom way with the probability of
selection proportional to the validators’ share [1], [13],
[16]. Delegated Proof of Stake (DPoS) is a variant of
PoS where all peers vote to select a node as a witness or
delegate [13]. Witnesses are rewarded for generating new
blocks and delegates oversee retaining the blockchain
and offering some changes including transaction fees and
block size. DPoS is more efficient than PoS thanks to its
different voting and delegation mechanism.
• Proof of Game (PoG) is one of the consensus protocols
leveraging game-theoretic models. PoG is proposed for
resource-dependent and computational independent con-
sensus algorithms. It restricts the block creator in creating
the number of blocks based on the level of the game it
can play and the score it can earn [5].
• Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) is a popular
consensus algorithm used in permissioned blockchain,
where the system combines a group of active and passive
replicas [17]. The pre-preparation phase is the first stage
of the process of deploying PBFT, followed by the
preparation, commit, and reply stages.
• Proof of Activity (PoA) combines the features of PoW
and PoS. It tends to maintain the best aspects of both
algorithms and avoid their worst features. The process of
mining is similar to that of PoW. In the first stage, miners
make efforts to solve the hash function and win the race
based on PoS. Next, transactions are added to the block.
Then, several validators are selected to verify the new
block according to the PoS consensus algorithm.
Table I categorizes different consensus algorithms which are
suitable for IoT networks based on accessibility, scalability,
computing, network and storage overhead, throughput, and
latency. PBFT has low computing overhead while PoW, PoG,
and PoA have high computing overhead.
Based on how it is used and deployed in various systems,
blockchain can be categorized into the following types:
• Public blockchain, where everyone can participate in the
mining, publishing, and verification of the new block as
well as accessing the data gathered in the blockchain.
This blockchain is also known as permissionless, i.e.,
everyone can join the blockchain without any permission.
• Private blockchain, where only known participants can
join the blockchain and access the data shared in the
ledger. This type is also named permissioned blockchain.
• Consortium, also known as a federated blockchain, this
type of ledger is similar to a private blockchain as it in-
cludes clusters of private participants managed by differ-
ent organizations. Hence, multiple organizations having
private participants usually join a consortium blockchain.
Blockchain technology also enjoys several features that
make it attractive for IoT research including decentralization,
immutability, auditability, and fault tolerance [1]. Decentral-
ization is one of the most salient characteristics of blockchain.
Turning from a centralized towards decentralized architecture
TABLE I: Comparison of consensus algorithms.
Consensus
algorithm
Accessibility Scalability Computing
overhead
Network
overhead
Storage
overhead
Throughput Latency
PoW Public High High Low High Low High
PoS Public High Medium Low High Low Medium
DPoS Public High Medium N/A High High Medium
PBFT Private Low Low High High High Low
PoG N/A Low High Medium Low N/A N/A
PoA Public High High Low High Low Medium
will protect the IoT network against single points of failure and
bottlenecks [18] and enable every device to participate in the
consensus protocol. Each transaction in the blockchain should
be verified by the majority of participants and no central entity
monitors the information generated through the network.
C. Game Theory
Game theory can play a key role in addressing strategic
situations in IoT networks such as competition over resources
and decentralized decision making. Also, researchers can take
advantage of the powerful game-theoretic models to formally
assess the security issues in blockchain-based IoT and develop
strategic defense against attacks [9]. In peer-to-peer systems,
game theory provides a set of mathematical tools to model the
communications between peers, predict their behaviors, and
optimize their actions. Generally, each player participating in
the game aims to choose a strategy that maximizes its reward.
This section overviews the game-theoretical models which
have been incorporated into blockchain-based IoT systems.
To better grasp the power and advantages of game theory,
some basic terms are first explained as follows.
• Player: Each entity (e.g., individual or organization)
participating in the game and affecting it by their moves.
• Action: In every game, there is a finite set of actions that
players can take as part of their strategies.
• Payoff: Players take actions to maximize the revenue
or payoff they receive. The payoff is defined based
on players’ selected strategies and is computed using
problem-specific parameters.
• Strategy: Players’ reward or payoff is computed accord-
ing to the strategies played by all players. Players can
choose between a pure or mixed (probabilistic) strategy
over their set of actions.
• Solution concept: It is a set of rules used to predict how a
game will be played. The predictions derived by solving
the game indicate the strategies that players will select.
• Nash equilibrium: It is a solution concept. If each player
has chosen a strategy and no player has an incentive
to maximize their own expected payoff by deviating
from their strategy while the other players keep theirs
unchanged, the game is in Nash equilibrium state. When
Nash equilibrium is achieved, each player has chosen
their optimal strategy that maximizes their reward.
Many game-theoretical models have been proposed to de-
sign blockchain networks, especially in IoT systems. These are
divided between non-cooperative and cooperative (i.e., coali-
tional) games. Due to their inherent nature, non-cooperative
games are the most used in blockchain network design, nor-
mally to optimize the defensive strategy (e.g., honest mining)
against the adversary’s actions. On the other hand, cooperative
29
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
games are used to effectively coordinate the collaborative
behavior of nodes in peer-to-peer networks. As shown in Fig.
1, non-cooperative games can either be static or dynamic,
and can be further categorized according to the information
available about players’ types and their action history [19]. For
instance, acquiring the full information in the decentralized
blockchain network in a timely fashion can be challenging,
hence Bayesian games can be adopted in the design of
distributed blockchain-enabled IoT systems with incomplete
information sharing [20].
Various game models that exist under this classification have
been leveraged for blockchain-based IoT design. These are
described as follows:
• Stackelberg game: An asymmetric, sequential game
where players are divided into two types: the leader
who makes a move first, and the followers who select
their strategies after observing the leader’s actions. Every
player tries to maximize their payoff by selecting the best
strategy. The leader derives the optimal strategy through
backward-inductive reasoning about the follower’s antic-
ipated actions. Many of the approaches discussed in this
paper used the Stackelberg game model [21]–[24].
• Repeated game: When players dynamically play a game
multiple times (e.g., super game), the previous strategies
may be observed by each player so that they can optimize
their future strategies accordingly. Hence, dynamic games
can be based on complete or incomplete information.
• Stochastic game: It involves repeating distinct games
every time the game is executed, i.e., the game is played
in different states. Players are allowed to rearrange their
strategies depending on the decisions made by other
players [25]. For instance, miners can leverage this game
to find the best chain to join and the best block to be
mined and verified. A stochastic game has also been used
to mitigate the majority attack, as described later [26].
• Differential game: Here, each player solves an optimal
control problem. For instance, Wang et al. [27] used
differential games to model the blockchain on top of fog
computing to solve the resource contribution problem.
• Coalitional game: An important approach to studying the
interactions of cooperative players. Each formed coalition
has a payoff that may be distributed among its members
Fig. 1: Categorization of game theory models.
(e.g., transferable utility). For instance, this approach
has been used to investigate the feasibility of integrating
blockchain into the design of autonomous systems [28].
For distributed (and mostly non-collaborative) decision
making in IoT networks, game theory can be a valuable tool to
predict and regulate nodes’ behaviors in the blockchain. Also,
it can be used for detecting and mitigating security attacks.
III. TAXONOMY OF GAME-THEORETIC DESIGN IN
BLOCKCHAIN-BASED IOT
Blockchain is a potential solution to tackle security issues in
emerging IoT ecosystems. Nonetheless, it entails challenges in
terms of performance, management, and energy consumption,
most of which have been recently addressed by integrating
game-theoretic models. This section builds a comprehensive
taxonomy of the integration of game-theoretic models into var-
ious design areas in blockchain-based IoT including security,
communication, blockchain operations, energy consumption,
consensus protocols, and data sharing as illustrated in Fig. 2.
This taxonomy is a valuable roadmap for conducting future
research in the field of blockchain design for IoT.
A. Game Theory for Security
When deploying blockchain-based IoT systems, there exist
serious security threats that should not be overlooked [29],
especially zero-day attacks. For instance, Dongjin Xu et. al.
[30] proposed a game-theoretic punishment approach based
on action records in the blockchain platform to decrease the
probability of occurrence of cyber attacks by mobile users and
edge servers and improve the security of the edge network.
This section describes several important attacks along with
the game-theoretic approaches proposed to address them.
1) Selfish mining attack: A subversive strategy in PoW-
driven blockchain where malicious miners or mining pools
do not broadcast the newly mined block but instead select to
withhold or hold on to it then release it later [31]. In this
case, honest miners waste their computational power, creating
a block race between honest and selfish miners. Selfish mining
attacks can invalidate the blocks mined by honest miners.
Thus, all transactions in the honest miners’ blocks get rejected.
One of the common selfish mining attacks is the pool block
withholding (PBWH) attack, where a malicious pool launches
a Block WithHolding (BWH) attack against another pool.
To prevent this, it is important to assess the strategies taken
by miners during communication. Several game-theoretic ap-
proaches have been proposed to optimally solve the decision-
making problem of resource mining in blockchain [32], [33].
For instance, Singh et al. [33] proposed a non-cooperative
differential game to maximize the profit of miners, where each
miner behaves selfishly and individually wants to maximize
the profit gained. On the other hand, Toda et al. [32] modeled
the decision-making problem of miners as a non-cooperative
game, where the utility function is defined in terms of energy
consumption and the mean mining reward.
For example, Eyal [34] proposed a non-cooperative game
among the pools to analyze the node communication through
30
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 2: A timely and comprehensive taxonomy of game-theoretic design in blockchain-based IoT systems.
the blockchain. Particularly, the miners are willing to join
those private pools that are not under the PWH attack. Thus,
large mining pools could be shrunken down into several
smaller ones. The proposed miner’s dilemma is similar to the
classical prisoner’s dilemma: If a miner controls the majority
of the mining power, both miners will achieve a lesser reward
than when both miners behave honestly. Hence, each miner
can choose to attack or behave honestly. If miner 2 (miner
1) chooses to behave maliciously or honestly, the payoff of
miner 1 (miner 2) is larger when behaving maliciously than
when behaving honestly, respectively. At the equilibrium state,
if both miners behave maliciously, the payoff of each miner is
smaller than its payoff if neither miner behaves maliciously.
The game is played dynamically. The miners can cooperate to
behave honestly, and in each round, a miner can detect whether
another miner is behaving maliciously and deviating from the
agreement. TABLE II depicts this interaction.
2) Majority attack: When a single miner, group of Sybil
nodes, or a mining pool control more than 50% of the com-
putational power of a network, a majority or 51% attack [35]
is yielded. Attackers can prevent blocks from being verified
and reverse transactions during the time they are in control to
allow double-spending. Moreover, malicious nodes can split
the blockchain and fork the main network. They can also
prevent honest miners from finding and verifying new blocks
[17]. To avoid this, benign miners can defend against attacker
nodes by adding honest nodes to the blockchain network
[26]. The communication between these nodes can also be
formulated as a stochastic game in which the states reflect the
blockchain portions controlled by malicious and benign nodes.
TABLE II: The miner’s Dilemma (simplified), where p1 and p2 represent the
payoffs of miners 1 and 2, respectively.
Miner 1
Miner 2
Honest Malicious
Honest (p1 = 1, p2 = 1) (p1 > 1, p2 < 1)
Malicious (p1 < 1, p2 > 1) (p1 < 1, p2 < 1)
3) DoS attack: Mining pools can potentially carry out DoS
attacks to maximize their reward. Some may launch DDoS at-
tacks to decrease the other mining pools’ rewards or to access
additional computation resources and improve the likelihood
of solving the next proof of work. Non-cooperative games can
be used to prevent DoS attacks. Particularly, Johnson et al. [36]
addressed the trade-off between two different strategies when
performing the consensus protocol including construction and
destruction by deploying a series of game-theoretic models.
Under the construction strategy, a mining pool uses additional
computing resources to increase the probability of winning the
next race. Under the destruction strategy, it launches a com-
putationally intensive DDoS attack to mitigate the likelihood
of winning for the other pools. The authors also studied the
incentives of Bitcoin mining pool operators to launch DDoS
attacks. Furthermore, machine learning for anomaly detection
combined with game theory can be helpful in identifying
various attacks including majority and DDoS [37].
4) Security and performance analysis: Game theory is one
of the tools used to analyze and compare the security of
blockchain-based IoT systems and evaluate their performance.
For instance, Tan and Chung [38] made use of game theory
to evaluate the security of their proposed blockchain-enabled
VANETs system against not only unauthorized tracking of
specified vehicles but also adaptive chosen message and replay
attacks. Cheng et al. [39] utilized a game theory-based method
to analyze time cost consideration in the traffic signal control
mode in blockchain-based IoV.
On the other hand, mean-field game is a popular game-
theoretic model dealing with large-scale settings and was used
by Taghizadeh et al. [40] for equilibrium analysis of mining
computational power in blockchain-based IoT. Since dealing
with a large group of peers in the blockchain is one of the
major challenges that conventional analytical tools normally
face, leveraging mean-field game theory allows to analyze
the behavior of a large number of players in the network by
enabling macroscopic security studies of mining groups.
31
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
B. Game Theory for Communications
Communication problems in Blockchain-enabled IoT net-
works involve the minimization of communication overhead
(i.e., transmitted packets) and the management of communi-
cation resources (e.g., how to allocate radio channels). Game
theory has been applied to solve these problems. For instance,
Qiu et al. [21] used a Stackelberg game to perform spectrum
trading operations among the buyer and seller. The game
involves a leader (mobile network operator) and multiple
trackers (unmanned aerial vehicles) competing over resources.
One of the most crucial challenges that have emerged in
electric vehicles (EV) is to ascertain the best strategy for each
decision-maker to optimize the interests of any participant in
the grid with a lower communication overhead. Generally,
game theory can be utilized when multiple parties are will-
ing to maximize their own revenue based on their abilities
and interests. Xia et al. [20] proposed an approach using a
Bayesian game to achieve optimal pricing in the distributed
blockchain-based IoV while decreasing the communication
load. More specifically, an electricity buyer buys electricity
from an electricity seller which is a vehicle that wants to sell
its electricity in a trustful way by using a blockchain platform.
The Bayesian game-based pricing scheme is written by the
smart contract, which plays the role of a virtual agency and
achieves optimal trading with lower communication costs.
Chen et al. [41] proposed a secure electricity trading and
incentive contract model using blockchain and game theory to
encourage vehicles to trade and participate in the game, which
is based on income and reward. They showed that communica-
tion overhead could be reduced by 64.55%. Hassija et al. [42]
proposed an IoV framework using game theory to manage the
communication among vehicles. They used the blockchain to
address the security and tracking challenges via game-theoretic
modeling of the interactions between the vehicles providing
and consuming offloading services. Furthermore, to maximize
miners’ utility, Cong et al. [43] enabled the miners to form a
coalition (e.g., mining pool) and cooperate by following the
reward allocation mechanism. Therefore, a coalitional game
can be effectively designed to manage the communications
through the blockchain and predict miners’ strategies.
C. Game Theory for Edge/Fog Computing
Incorporating mobile edge computing (MEC) technologies
into blockchain-enabled IoT may potentially overcome re-
source constraints of smart end devices. Edge servers may
store the whole blockchain and participate in most of heavy
operations such as initiating and validating transactions while
IoT devices may serve as lightweight nodes that only store
partial blockchain data and undertake less computational-
intensive tasks [44]. From a design perspective, game theory
can assist in managing the interactions between MEC servers
and client devices. For instance, Liu et al. [23] formulated
the video transcoding and delivery problem as a three-stage
Stackelberg game. The architecture consists of users, base
stations, and video providers that all use their computational
and communication resources to provide video streaming in a
distributed and secure manner. Hence, by using the blockchain,
the transcoding service could run without a central server.
Zuo et al. [45] formulated the interaction between the
MEC server and users as a two-stage Stackelberg game in
mobile blockchain networks. Hence, the achieved Stackelberg
equilibrium enables the server to maximize its reward as well
as the profit of mobile users. On the other hand, Xiong et
al. [46] proposed a game-theoretic approach to analyze the
interaction between miners and cloud/fog providers (CFP)
in blockchain-based IoT. They presented a lightweight PoW-
based blockchain so that the computation overhead is dele-
gated to the cloud/fog. In addition, the management of com-
putational resources in the blockchain consensus process is
formulated as a Stackelberg game, through which the revenue
earned by CFPs and the miners can be effectively optimized.
Guo et al. [47] proposed a mining task offloading approach
using the Stackelberg game and double auction to exploit
idle network resources and reduce communication overhead
and delay. Ding et al. [48] proposed a model allowing the
blockchain to encourage IoT nodes to participate in the mining
process by purchasing more computational resources from
edge servers. The interaction between IoT nodes and the
blockchain is formulated as a Stackelberg game, where the
blockchain platform is the leader and the nodes are followers
intending to maximize their profit. Xiong et al. [49] proposed
a framework to maximize the gains of devices and the MEC
server performing heavy tasks in blockchain-based IoT using
the Stackelberg game. Miners must decide on a trade-off
between the reward from mining and the price to purchase
resources. Liu et al. [50] also proposed an architecture based
on the Stackelberg game by formulating the interaction be-
tween blockchain users and miners. Here, IoT devices want to
store their information in the blockchain as transactions.
Wenlong Guo et al. [51] proposed an optimal incentive
scheme also based on the Stackelberg game to manage com-
putational resources. This approach formulates the interaction
between the edge service providers (ESP) as the leader and
mining devices as followers. The ESP provides its computa-
tional resources to miners during mining. The game enables
the miners and ESP to choose optimal strategies for allocating
computational resources and maximizing their profits. This
approach assumes three types of rewards: fixed reward, perfor-
mance reward, and participant reward. The fixed reward is the
constant reward for generating a new block. The performance
reward is considered as a reward related to the size of the
block and the volume of the transaction, while a participant
reward depends on the level of participation of miners.
When miners try to mine new blocks, the reward is some-
times not adequate to encourage miners to keep mining. The
blockchain with miners who are not incentivized to mine due
to low rewards is called a gap chain, and the blockchain with
miners who are encouraged to mine due to sufficient profits
is called the normal chain. For the first time, Yuan et al. [52]
proposed the normal gap game for managing edge resource
allocation in the blockchain where the gap and normal chain
coexist. Here, miners compete with each other to maximize
32
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
their profits. This approach allows the miners to follow the
best strategy to manage their computational resources.
Ding et al. [53] proposed a framework for budget allocation
in blockchain-based IoT systems with edge computing. The
scenario considered consists of IoT resource-constrained de-
vices that require edge servers to perform computational tasks
including data analysis or storage. The interaction between
buyers and sellers, IoT devices, and edge servers, is formulated
using a Stackelberg game model. To the best of our knowledge,
there has been little investigation of using game-theoretic
models to manage budget allocation in blockchain-based IoT
systems, which creates a potential research direction.
D. Game Theory for Blockchain Operations
Anyone in the blockchain network can mine and verify the
transactions to obtain profits. In order to gain the maximum
rewards, each miner should analyze what strategy to adopt.
Game theory can be leveraged to fulfill this goal. Some of
the applications of game theory to the blockchain operational
phases are normally in computational resource management,
achieving maximum reward, and nonce selection strategies.
1) Computational resource management: Each miner de-
cides whether or not to allocate a share of its computational
power based on the strategies taken by the other miners. Yang
et al. [54] proposed to use non-cooperative game theory to
achieve decentralized scheduling of multiple reusable energy
sources in the energy local network (ELN) system. Each player
in the game needs to make a decision to achieve the optimal
objective under limited resources while considering players’
interaction and the iterative strategy updates. This is done by
formulating its own collaboration strategy to achieve the over-
all game goal. To deploy the decentralized automated demand
response framework for energy storage in the ELN system,
each decision maker should select an optimal consumption
plan from its strategy set based on the available information.
Wang et al. [27] proposed a scheme based on blockchain
in fog computing to optimize resource management using
differential game theory. Fog nodes have limited compu-
tational resources, hence they need to deploy the optimal
management strategy and achieve maximum benefits. This
game is an effective solution to represent the dynamic process
of fog nodes’ strategy generation. Yao et al. [55] formulate
the problem of pricing and resource management between
industrial IoT miners and cloud providers using a Stackelberg
game, where the provider is the leader who sets the price first,
then the miners act as followers and pick their strategies.
2) Maximizing reward: Bataineh et al. [56] presented a
game-theoretic model exhibiting a mix of cooperative and
competitive strategies between the miners and data providers
to help them both determine the monetary reward and al-
locate computational resources. Chen et al. [57] designed a
blockchain-based resource auction mechanism in a distributed
edge storage scenario, where an auction model based on
Bayesian Nash equilibrium is used to maximize profit. Further-
more, efficient pricing-based resource management for mobile
mining in edge computing is presented by Xiong et al. [24]
to encourage offloading operations in the blockchain platform.
In particular, a Stackelberg game is proposed to maximize the
utilities of miners as well as the edge computing provider.
Gao et al. [58] presented an approach to establish Nash
equilibrium for all parties in the supply chain using game-
theoretic models. A bidding session is created and the game is
played between a set of suppliers and retailers. Also, Zhang et
al. [59] proposed an approach where the electricity consumer
creates a contract including its trading strategies, whose goal
is to attract small-scale electricity suppliers (SESs) to sell
electricity and maximize their revenue. In addition, SESs get
maximal rewards if they select the right contract of their own
types. Finally, Jiang and Wu [4] used a game-theoretic model
to study the effect of block size on miners’ payoff. They
defined a strategy for varying block sizes due to earning profits
(e.g., determining the optimal default size). This approach can
be effectively implemented in blockchain-based IoT systems.
3) Nonce selection strategy: Zuo et al. [45] formulated the
user’s nonce selection strategy as a non-cooperative game,
where the utilities of the individual users are maximized in
the untrusted MEC-aided mobile blockchain networks. This
approach proves the existence of Nash equilibrium and argues
that the cooperation behavior is unsuitable for blockchain-
enabled IoT devices by using the repeated game concept.
E. Game Theory for Energy Consumption
Throughout the mining process, IoT devices having limited
computational resources cannot satisfy the requirements of
on-demand energy consumption. To tackle this issue, Li et
al. [60] designed a decentralized, on-demand energy supply
framework based on microgrids to satisfy the different energy
demands of miners in response to consensus protocols. The
Stackelberg game is used to formulate the energy allocation
among microgrids and miners and achieve optimal profits for
both. The microgrid is considered the game leader offering
a nonuniform pricing strategy for miners, and a game is
launched among the IoT devices that purchase energy from the
microgrids. These perform real-time scheduling and decision
making to enable the system to maximize the smoothness of
operations, while every device intends to maximize its benefits.
Li et al. [61] designed a secure energy trading system in
industrial IoT using the consortium blockchain. They proposed
a credit-based payment approach to minimize transaction delay
and support fast payment along with frequent energy trading.
The approach also uses the Stackelberg game to achieve an
optimal strategy for credit loans that maximizes the utility
of credit banks. For energy trading in the internet of electric
vehicles (IoEV), Ali et al. [62] proposed a framework based
on the Stackelberg game and the IoTA blockchain to enable
EVs to provide energy to vehicles and grids. The game allows
the buyer to select the best seller to negotiate the energy price.
F. Game Theory for Consensus Algorithms
Many efficient consensus algorithms for blockchain net-
works have been presented. Many surveys exist on analyzing
consensus algorithms in terms of scalability, how to reward
33
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
validators, and security risks [63]. Game theory is also applied
in the design of consensus mechanisms. For instance, Kumar
and Jain [5] presented the consensus algorithm PoG that can
be applied in IoT systems having limited-resource devices.
PoG can manage the miners so that they can be restricted
in creating the number of blocks based on their levels in the
game and their reward. This algorithm can be used for a single
miner (i.e., one player) or a pool of miners (i.e., multi-player),
and can be applied for resourceful and restricted-resource
environments so that the number of game levels and their
difficulty are based on resource availability in the network.
A game-theoretic model is also integrated into the fully de-
centralized consensus protocol to reward honest validators and
punish dishonest or lazy ones that do not adhere to the protocol
as a way of deterring attacks on the blockchain [64]. Also,
a game-theoretic consensus protocol for resource-constrained
devices (artificial medical body parts) was proposed in the field
of healthcare, namely LPoG, to enable a secure and faster data-
centric network [6]. Yaxing Wei et al. [65] proposed a new
delegated proof of stake (DPoS) consensus algorithm and a
game-theoretic reward and punishment incentive mechanism
to improve the voting enthusiasm of blockchain entities and
decrease the probability of occurrence of attacks.
Di et al. [66] used a Consensus Game (CG) in blockchain-
based IoT to manage the data trading process. They formulated
the interactions between IoT sensors as a game combining
cooperative and non-cooperative models named “Consensus
Game of IoT”. The results demonstrate that such hybrid
solutions can have an important role in blockchain over IoT.
Finally, Alhasnawi et al. [67] presented an advanced demand
management scheme based on coalitional game theory as a
consensus algorithm to minimize the power mismatch, energy
bill, and load energy waste. The communication packet loss
can be reduced by using the consensus protocol
G. Game Theory for Data Sharing
IoT devices face the challenge of storage limitation and
resource management as they create and collect large amounts
of data. Jiang et al. [68] designed a blockchain-based data
sharing framework for industrial IoT using game theory, where
the relations between data owners and edge devices such
as service interactions and data storage are formulated as a
Stackelberg game. Zhang et al. [69] also proposed to solve
the problem of data sharing and facilitate quality evaluation of
the data created by IoT devices using a two-phase Stackelberg
game that attempts to maximize the profits of participants.
Bai et al. [70] enabled efficient cross-chain edge data shar-
ing in blockchain-based Industrial Internet of Energy (IIoE).
They used a two-step Stackelberg game to achieve the gains
from resource scheduling while considering the preferences
and risk factors of edge users. Si et al. [71] designed a
lightweight blockchain-based information sharing system for
IoT devices via a dynamic cooperative game to encourage
nodes to behave honestly and mitigate malicious behavior.
Raifa Akkaoui et al. [72] designed a blockchain-based
personal health data trading trust model and verification mech-
anism by leveraging an evolutionary game with two types of
players: a data generator who is a patient wanting to share
their data and be part of the Medical IoT (MIoT), and a data
requester who is accountable for rewarding data generators
to motivate them to share their data. There are four different
strategy profiles: trustworthy patient, trustworthy requester, un-
trustworthy patient, and untrustworthy requester. Finally, Jiang
and Wu [73] proposed to solve shortage limitations for mining
devices in mobile environments using non-cooperative games.
The interactions among miners are formulated to explore the
impact of delegating mining mechanisms on miners’ utilities.
Overall, game theory has helped mobile miners to find optimal
strategies to tackle storage limitation problems.
IV. DISCUSSION AND INSIGHTS
This section investigates open challenges related to imple-
menting the blockchain in IoT systems using game-theoretic
designs and explores potential research directions in which
game theory can play an important role. Some challenges
mainly relate to IoT functional and architectural requirements
in terms of performance and security. On the other hand,
several open problems and limitations still exist when it comes
to effectively and efficiently managing blockchain operations
in IoT and practically implementing game-theoretic models.
A. Impact on IoT Performance and Security
Most of the existing consensus protocols such as PoW
require intensive computations, where IoT nodes must execute
computational tasks frequently, thereby leading to energy
wastage. In addition, IoT nodes participating in the blockchain
system should communicate and cooperate with other nodes,
and each block added to the blockchain needs to be broadcast
to all nodes, which results in communication overhead. How-
ever, most IoT devices have limitations in computation and
communication capacity. Although game-theoretic models can
be applied to allow IoT nodes to manage their computational
and communication resources when the consensus algorithm
is executed, finding an efficient game theory-based consensus
algorithm for IoT devices by saving on energy consumption
and reducing computation overhead remains a challenge.
On the other hand, IoT devices using blockchain can be-
come vulnerable to security threats including selfish, majority,
and DDoS attacks. Although these can be mitigated via game-
theoretic approaches, various attacks such as eclipse [74]
still need to be addressed, potentially using game-theoretical
formulations. In IoT, the open nature of mining pools can
attract a large number of miners for solving difficult problems
together to improve efficiency. However, this increases the
attack surface. Recent studies investigated the strategic trade-
off that must be established between network openness and
vulnerability in PoW-based blockchain [75]. Furthermore,
ensuring data privacy when deploying the IoT over the
blockchain is a critical challenge. Hence, more research is
needed to investigate privacy-preserving ways when deciding
on which transactions should be offloaded to the blockchain
and how differential privacy can be combined with blockchain.
34
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
B. Open Challenges to Blockchain Operations
There exist several challenges related to blockchain design
and they can be categorized as follows.
1) Security: Although the blockchain can mitigate security
attacks against IoT, it introduces new security threats. For
instance, malicious nodes participating in the blockchain may
try to maximize their profits by deviating from the protocol.
Also, blockchain systems may introduce new program vul-
nerabilities related to smart contracts. Game theory can be
applied to mitigate the likelihood of attacks such as selfish
mining by predicting anomalous behavior and adapting the
defense strategies of the other miners in the pool. Such
defense approaches should be extrapolated to address other
attack types such as Sybil and device spoofing. Although
risk assessment has already been conducted for generic cyber
applications of blockchain technology [76], a more tailored
security risk assessment must be performed in the context
of IoT taking into consideration the confluence of its mul-
tiple dynamic characteristics such as pervasiveness and cyber-
physical operations. Stochastic games for risk modeling under
uncertainty can serve as a breeding ground for developing
more sophisticated approaches that emphasize the nonlinear,
erratic, and unpredictable nature of vulnerability exploitation
in networked dynamical systems driven by blockchain.
2) Blockchain architecture: The three types of blockchain
including public, private, and consortium can be utilized in
blockchain-based IoT systems. However, selecting an appro-
priate blockchain based on its features, advantages, and draw-
backs is challenging. Tran et al. [8] surveyed several positions
of blockchain in IoT systems. However, analyzing existing
blockchain architectures in terms of performance and security
should be considered. In addition, the number of blockchain
networks used in the blockchain-based IoT architecture can
have a significant impact on the performance of the whole
system. Adopting a game-theoretic perspective to perform such
an analysis can be a promising direction.
3) Consensus algorithms and energy consumption: Devel-
oping optimized consensus algorithms that fit the IoT archi-
tecture is another significant issue. For energy-constrained
devices, improving consensus algorithms by using practical
game-theoretic models can reduce energy consumption. To
the best of our knowledge, there is no comprehensive work
that compares and analyzes existing consensus algorithms with
game theory-based designs in terms of energy consumption,
computation, communication, and storage overhead.
C. Limitations of Game-theoretical Design
Incorporating game-theoretic models in blockchain-based
IoT may also raise some challenges explained as follows.
1) Implementation: The deployment of game-theoretic
models have not yet received its share of attention. In practice,
implementing gamified approaches may entail some chal-
lenges. For instance, reaching an optimal decision by the IoT
nodes may not be straightforward. Since the blockchain is
decentralized, there is a large number of distributed nodes
that participate in the blockchain network. Therefore, it is
challenging to make optimal decisions under incomplete in-
formation where leader nodes cannot observe the strategy
of the follower nodes. Games that are based on partially-
observable environments or the mean-field theory may be
explored to cope with large-scale systems. In addition, due
to the high computation overhead of game theory-based con-
sensus algorithms, their practicality should be investigated in
future research to ensure that deployment challenges can be
addressed in practice. Finally, realism can be further improved
by reducing the number of abstract game-theoretic parameters
and evaluating the game theory-enabled blockchain networks
using real measured data and testbeds.
2) Nash equilibrium: Finding Nash equilibrium can be hard
in a decentralized system like blockchain, which can have a
large number of miners participating in the consensus protocol.
IoT nodes have two choices when Nash equilibrium exists,
residing in the pool or leaving it. Similarly, the transaction
fee may be paid by blockchain users when they choose to
withdraw [25]. In Nash equilibrium, players are not willing to
deviate from the chosen strategies. However, more than one
Nash equilibrium could be reached as the process of finding
the best strategy is largely demanding for players [3].
3) Types of game models: This survey discussed several
types of game-theoretic models used in blockchain-based IoT.
However, selecting an adequate game model that fits the IoT
architecture and the various design aspects of the blockchain
constitutes a potential research direction. For instance, based
on the target application area, designers can choose between
simultaneous vs sequential play, as well as cooperative vs non-
cooperative games. Nonetheless, we find that dynamic games
are well suited to solve many of the challenges discussed in
this survey compared to one-shot games. Finally, most existing
work has considered security games among mining pools,
which might not be fully realistic in pervasive computing
systems since the optimal strategy of the individual miner
is not necessarily the optimal strategy for the overall pool.
Designing a dynamic mean-field game to enable an individual
node to make strategic decisions in an iterative fashion as
part of the mining pool can be a potential solution. Mean-
field game theory provides a powerful mathematical tool for
problems with a large number of non-cooperative players.
Since the subtle changes among nodes can be negligible if the
number of players is sufficiently large, we usually research the
epsilon Nash to analyze game stability [77].
V. CONCLUSION
This timely survey covered the recent research contribu-
tions made toward blockchain-based IoT systems using game-
theoretical models. While the blockchain has significant ad-
vantages in establishing a secure platform for IoT applications,
it entails some limitations that need to be emphasized during
the design phase. The proposed taxonomy of game theory ap-
proaches will allow future researchers to address existing chal-
lenges in integrating the blockchain within IoT systems and
achieve smarter designs. Moreover, new design problems and
solutions will likely emerge and contribute to this roadmap. In
35
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
the future, we plan to explore other methodological avenues
that will enable system designers to improve the security,
efficiency, and management of blockchain platforms.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This research is partially supported by the Natural Sciences
& Engineering Research Council of Canada (NSERC).
REFERENCES
[1] M. S. Ali, M. Vecchio, M. Pincheira, K. Dolui, F. Antonelli, and
M. H. Rehmani, “Applications of blockchains in the internet of things:
A comprehensive survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials,
vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1676–1717, 2018.
[2] R. Yang, F. R. Yu, P. Si, Z. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “Integrated blockchain
and edge computing systems: A survey, some research issues and
challenges,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 2,
pp. 1508–1532, 2019.
[3] Z. Liu, N. C. Luong, W. Wang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, Y.-C. Liang, and
D. I. Kim, “A survey on applications of game theory in blockchain,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.10865, 2019.
[4] S. Jiang and J. Wu, “Bitcoin mining with transaction fees: a game on
the block size,” in 2019 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain
(Blockchain), pp. 107–115, IEEE, 2019.
[5] A. Kumar and S. Jain, “Proof of game (pog): A game theory based
consensus model,” in International Conference on Sustainable Commu-
nication Networks and Application, pp. 755–764, Springer, 2019.
[6] A. Kumar, D. Kumar Sharma, A. Nayyar, S. Singh, and B. Yoon,
“Lightweight proof of game (lpog): a proof of work (pow)’s extended
lightweight consensus algorithm for wearable kidneys,” Sensors, vol. 20,
no. 10, p. 2868, 2020.
[7] A. Kumar and S. Jain, “Proof of game (PoG): a proof of work (pow)’s
extended consensus algorithm for healthcare application,” in Inter-
national Conference on Innovative Computing and Communications,
pp. 23–36, Springer, 2021.
[8] N. K. Tran, M. A. Babar, and J. Boan, “Integrating blockchain and
internet of things systems: A systematic review on objectives and
designs,” Journal of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 173,
p. 102844, 2021.
[9] M. A. Ferrag and L. Shu, “The performance evaluation of blockchain-
based security and privacy systems for the internet of things: A tutorial,”
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2021.
[10] J. Sengupta, S. Ruj, and S. D. Bit, “A comprehensive survey on attacks,
security issues and blockchain solutions for IoT and IIoT,” Journal of
Network and Computer Applications, vol. 149, p. 102481, 2020.
[11] X. Wang, X. Zha, W. Ni, R. P. Liu, Y. J. Guo, X. Niu, and K. Zheng,
“Survey on blockchain for internet of things,” Computer Communica-
tions, vol. 136, pp. 10–29, 2019.
[12] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Decen-
tralized Business Review, p. 21260, 2008.
[13] M. Salimitari and M. Chatterjee, “A survey on consensus protocols in
blockchain for iot networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1809.05613, 2018.
[14] L. M. Bach, B. Mihaljevic, and M. Zagar, “Comparative analysis of
blockchain consensus algorithms,” in 2018 41st International Conven-
tion on Information and Communication Technology, Electronics and
Microelectronics (MIPRO), pp. 1545–1550, Ieee, 2018.
[15] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “An overview of
blockchain technology: Architecture, consensus, and future trends,” in
2017 IEEE international congress on big data (BigData congress),
pp. 557–564, Ieee, 2017.
[16] G.-T. Nguyen and K. Kim, “A survey about consensus algorithms used
in blockchain,” Journal of Information processing systems, vol. 14, no. 1,
pp. 101–128, 2018.
[17] M. Saad, J. Spaulding, L. Njilla, C. Kamhoua, S. Shetty, D. Nyang,
and D. Mohaisen, “Exploring the attack surface of blockchain: A
comprehensive survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials,
vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1977–2008, 2020.
[18] A. Reyna, C. Martı́n, J. Chen, E. Soler, and M. Dı́az, “On blockchain and
its integration with IoT. challenges and opportunities,” Future generation
computer systems, vol. 88, pp. 173–190, 2018.
[19] S. Roy, C. Ellis, S. Shiva, D. Dasgupta, V. Shandilya, and Q. Wu, “A
survey of game theory as applied to network security,” in 2010 43rd
Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, pp. 1–10, IEEE,
2010.
[20] S. Xia, F. Lin, Z. Chen, C. Tang, Y. Ma, and X. Yu, “A bayesian
game based vehicle-to-vehicle electricity trading scheme for blockchain-
enabled internet of vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technol-
ogy, vol. 69, no. 7, pp. 6856–6868, 2020.
[21] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao, and Q. Wu, “Blockchain-based secure
spectrum trading for unmanned-aerial-vehicle-assisted cellular networks:
An operator’s perspective,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 451–466, 2019.
[22] A. Wilczyński and J. Kołodziej, “Modelling and simulation of security-
aware task scheduling in cloud computing based on blockchain tech-
nology,” Simulation Modelling Practice and Theory, vol. 99, p. 102038,
2020.
[23] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. Leung, “Decentralized
resource allocation for video transcoding and delivery in blockchain-
based system with mobile edge computing,” IEEE Transactions on
Vehicular Technology, vol. 68, no. 11, pp. 11169–11185, 2019.
[24] Z. Xiong, S. Feng, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han, “Optimal pricing-
based edge computing resource management in mobile blockchain,” in
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), pp. 1–
6, IEEE, 2018.
[25] Z. Liu, N. C. Luong, W. Wang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, Y.-C. Liang, and
D. I. Kim, “A survey on blockchain: A game theoretical perspective,”
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 47615–47643, 2019.
[26] S.-K. Kim, “Blockchain governance game,” Computers & Industrial
Engineering, vol. 136, pp. 373–380, 2019.
[27] H. Wang, L. Wang, Z. Zhou, X. Tao, G. Pau, and F. Arena, “Blockchain-
based resource allocation model in fog computing,” Applied Sciences,
vol. 9, no. 24, p. 5538, 2019.
[28] R. Kovacs, B. Iancu, V. Dadarlat, S. Buzura, A. Peculea, and E. Cebuc,
“A collaborative game theory approach for determining the feasibility
of a shared as blockchain infrastructure,” in 2021 20th RoEduNet
Conference: Networking in Education and Research (RoEduNet), pp. 1–
6, IEEE, 2021.
[29] J. Cheng, L. Xie, X. Tang, N. Xiong, and B. Liu, “A survey of security
threats and defense on blockchain,” Multimedia Tools and Applications,
vol. 80, no. 20, pp. 30623–30652, 2021.
[30] D. Xu, L. Xiao, L. Sun, and M. Lei, “Game theoretic study on blockchain
based secure edge networks,” in 2017 IEEE/CIC International Confer-
ence on Communications in China (ICCC), pp. 1–5, IEEE, 2017.
[31] I. Eyal and E. G. Sirer, “Majority is not enough: Bitcoin mining is
vulnerable,” in International conference on financial cryptography and
data security, pp. 436–454, Springer, 2014.
[32] K. Toda, N. Kuze, and T. Ushio, “Game-theoretic approach to a decision-
making problem for blockchain mining,” IEEE Control Systems Letters,
vol. 5, no. 5, pp. 1783–1788, 2020.
[33] R. Singh, A. D. Dwivedi, G. Srivastava, A. Wiszniewska-Matyszkiel, and
X. Cheng, “A game theoretic analysis of resource mining in blockchain,”
Cluster Computing, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 2035–2046, 2020.
[34] I. Eyal, “The miner’s dilemma,” in 2015 IEEE Symposium on Security
and Privacy, pp. 89–103, IEEE, 2015.
[35] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Decen-
tralized Business Review, p. 21260, 2008.
[36] B. Johnson, A. Laszka, J. Grossklags, M. Vasek, and T. Moore, “Game-
theoretic analysis of DDoS attacks against bitcoin mining pools,” in
International Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security,
pp. 72–86, Springer, 2014.
[37] S. Dey, “Securing majority-attack in blockchain using machine learning
and algorithmic game theory: A proof of work,” in 2018 10th computer
science and electronic engineering (CEEC), pp. 7–10, IEEE, 2018.
[38] H. Tan and I. Chung, “Secure authentication and key management with
blockchain in vanets,” IEEE access, vol. 8, pp. 2482–2498, 2019.
36
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[39] L. Cheng, J. Liu, G. Xu, Z. Zhang, H. Wang, H.-N. Dai, Y. Wu, and
W. Wang, “SCTSC: A semicentralized traffic signal control mode with
attribute-based blockchain in iovs,” IEEE Transactions on Computa-
tional Social Systems, vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 1373–1385, 2019.
[40] A. Taghizadeh, H. Kebriaei, and D. Niyato, “Mean field game for
equilibrium analysis of mining computational power in blockchains,”
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 8, pp. 7625–7635, 2020.
[41] X. Chen and X. Zhang, “Secure electricity trading and incentive contract
model for electric vehicle based on energy blockchain,” IEEE access,
vol. 7, pp. 178763–178778, 2019.
[42] V. Hassija, V. Chamola, G. Han, J. J. Rodrigues, and M. Guizani,
“Dagiov: A framework for vehicle to vehicle communication using di-
rected acyclic graph and game theory,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular
Technology, vol. 69, no. 4, pp. 4182–4191, 2020.
[43] L. W. Cong, Z. He, and J. Li, “Decentralized mining in centralized
pools,” The Review of Financial Studies, vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 1191–1235,
2021.
[44] H.-N. Dai, Z. Zheng, and Y. Zhang, “Blockchain for internet of things: A
survey,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8076–8094,
2019.
[45] Y. Zuo, S. Jin, and S. Zhang, “Computation offloading in untrusted
MEC-aided mobile blockchain IoT systems,” IEEE Transactions on
Wireless Communications, 2021.
[46] Z. Xiong, S. Feng, W. Wang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han,
“Cloud/fog computing resource management and pricing for blockchain
networks,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 4585–
4600, 2018.
[47] S. Guo, Y. Dai, S. Guo, X. Qiu, and F. Qi, “Blockchain meets edge
computing: Stackelberg game and double auction based task offloading
for mobile blockchain,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology,
vol. 69, no. 5, pp. 5549–5561, 2020.
[48] X. Ding, J. Guo, D. Li, and W. Wu, “An incentive mechanism for build-
ing a secure blockchain-based internet of things,” IEEE Transactions on
Network Science and Engineering, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 477–487, 2020.
[49] Z. Xiong, Y. Zhang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han, “When mobile
blockchain meets edge computing,” IEEE Communications Magazine,
vol. 56, no. 8, pp. 33–39, 2018.
[50] W. Liu, B. Cao, L. Zhang, M. Peng, and M. Daneshmand, “A distributed
game theoretic approach for blockchain-based offloading strategy,” in
ICC 2020-2020 IEEE International Conference on Communications
(ICC), pp. 1–6, IEEE, 2020.
[51] W. Guo, Z. Chang, X. Guo, D. N. K. Jayakody, and T. Ristaniemi,
“Resource allocation for edge computing-based blockchain: A game
theoretic approach,” in 2020 IEEE international conference on com-
munications workshops (ICC workshops), pp. 1–6, IEEE, 2020.
[52] J. Yuan, Q. Zhao, J. Li, J. Li, Z. Cai, and Y.-T. Chang, “Edge mining
resources allocation among normal and gap blockchains using game
theory,” The Journal of Supercomputing, pp. 1–18, 2022.
[53] X. Ding, J. Guo, D. Li, and W. Wu, “Pricing and budget allocation
for IoT blockchain with edge computing,” IEEE Transactions on Cloud
Computing, 2022.
[54] X. Yang, G. Wang, H. He, J. Lu, and Y. Zhang, “Automated demand re-
sponse framework in elns: Decentralized scheduling and smart contract,”
IEEE transactions on systems, man, and cybernetics: systems, vol. 50,
no. 1, pp. 58–72, 2019.
[55] H. Yao, T. Mai, J. Wang, Z. Ji, C. Jiang, and Y. Qian, “Resource trading
in blockchain-based industrial internet of things,” IEEE Transactions on
Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3602–3609, 2019.
[56] A. S. Bataineh, J. Bentahar, O. A. Wahab, R. Mizouni, and G. Rjoub,
“A game-based secure trading of big data and iot services: Blockchain
as a two-sided market,” in International Conference on Service-Oriented
Computing, pp. 85–100, Springer, 2020.
[57] H. Chen, J. Yu, H. Zhou, T. Zhou, F. Liu, and Z. Cai, “Smartstore: A
blockchain and clustering based intelligent edge storage system with
fairness and resilience,” International Journal of Intelligent Systems,
vol. 36, no. 9, pp. 5184–5209, 2021.
[58] J. Gao, B. Adjei-Arthur, E. B. Sifah, H. Xia, and Q. Xia, “Supply chain
equilibrium on a game theory-incentivized blockchain network,” Journal
of Industrial Information Integration, p. 100288, 2021.
[59] B. Zhang, C. Jiang, J.-L. Yu, and Z. Han, “A contract game for direct
energy trading in smart grid,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 9,
no. 4, pp. 2873–2884, 2016.
[60] J. Li, Z. Zhou, J. Wu, J. Li, S. Mumtaz, X. Lin, H. Gacanin, and
S. Alotaibi, “Decentralized on-demand energy supply for blockchain
in internet of things: A microgrids approach,” IEEE transactions on
computational social systems, vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 1395–1406, 2019.
[61] Z. Li, J. Kang, R. Yu, D. Ye, Q. Deng, and Y. Zhang, “Consortium
blockchain for secure energy trading in industrial internet of things,”
IEEE transactions on industrial informatics, vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 3690–
3700, 2017.
[62] M. Ali, A. Anjum, A. Anjum, and M. A. Khan, “Efficient and secure
energy trading in internet of electric vehicles using IOTA blockchain,”
in 2020 IEEE 17th International Conference on Smart Communities:
Improving Quality of Life Using ICT, IoT and AI (HONET), pp. 87–91,
IEEE, 2020.
[63] X. Fu, H. Wang, and P. Shi, “A survey of blockchain consensus algo-
rithms: mechanism, design and applications,” Science China Information
Sciences, vol. 64, no. 2, pp. 1–15, 2021.
[64] N. Alzahrani and N. Bulusu, “Towards true decentralization: A
blockchain consensus protocol based on game theory and randomness,”
in International conference on decision and game theory for security,
pp. 465–485, Springer, 2018.
[65] Y. Wei, L. Liang, B. Zhou, and X. Feng, “A modified blockchain
dpos consensus algorithm based on anomaly detection and reward-
punishment,” in 2021 13th International Conference on Communication
Software and Networks (ICCSN), pp. 283–288, IEEE, 2021.
[66] L. Di, G. X. Yuan, T. Zeng, Q. Zhang, and X. Zhang, “The existence of
consensus equilibria for data trading under the framework of internet of
things (IoT) with blockchain ecosystems,” Procedia Computer Science,
vol. 174, pp. 55–65, 2020.
[67] B. N. Alhasnawi, B. H. Jasim, B. E. Sedhom, and J. M. Guerrero, “Con-
sensus algorithm-based coalition game theory for demand management
scheme in smart microgrid,” Sustainable Cities and Society, vol. 74,
p. 103248, 2021.
[68] Y. Jiang, Y. Zhong, and X. Ge, “IIoT data sharing based on blockchain:
a multi-leader multi-follower stackelberg game approach,” IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, 2021.
[69] C. Zhang, T. Shen, and F. Bai, “Toward secure data sharing for the iot
devices with limited resources: A smart contract–based quality-driven
incentive mechanism,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2022.
[70] F. Bai, T. Shen, Z. Yu, K. Zeng, and B. Gong, “Trustworthy blockchain-
empowered collaborative edge computing-as-a-service scheduling and
data sharing in the IIoE,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2021.
[71] H. Si, C. Sun, Y. Li, H. Qiao, and L. Shi, “Iot information sharing
security mechanism based on blockchain technology,” Future generation
computer systems, vol. 101, pp. 1028–1040, 2019.
[72] R. Akkaoui, X. Hei, and W. Cheng, “An evolutionary game-theoretic
trust study of a blockchain-based personal health data sharing frame-
work,” in 2020 Information Communication Technologies Conference
(ICTC), pp. 277–281, IEEE, 2020.
[73] S. Jiang and J. Wu, “Game theoretic storage outsourcing in the mobile
blockchain mining network,” in 2020 IEEE 17th International Confer-
ence on Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), pp. 300–308, IEEE,
2020.
[74] E. Heilman, A. Kendler, A. Zohar, and S. Goldberg, “Eclipse attacks on
bitcoin’s peer-to-peer network,” in 24th {USENIX} Security Symposium
({USENIX} Security 15), pp. 129–144, 2015.
[75] Y. Wang, C. Tang, F. Lin, Z. Zheng, and Z. Chen, “Pool strategies
selection in pow-based blockchain networks: Game-theoretic analysis,”
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 8427–8436, 2019.
[76] S. Feng, W. Wang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and S. S. Wang,
“On cyber risk management of blockchain networks: A game theoretic
approach,” IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 14, no. 5,
pp. 1492–1504, 2018.
[77] J.-M. Lasry and P.-L. Lions, “Mean field games,” Japanese journal of
mathematics, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 229–260, 2007.
37
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.