A Cyber-Physical System&#x0027;s Roadmap to Last-Mile Delivery Drones
IEEE AEROSPACE AND ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS MAGAZINE, VOL. XX, NO. Y, JANUARY 2023 1
A Cyber-Physical System’s Roadmap to Last-Mile
Delivery Drones
Bruno S. Faiçal, Cesar A. C. Marcondes, Denis S. Loubach, Member, IEEE, Elton F. Sbruzzi, Filipe A. N. Verri,
Johnny C. Marques, Member, IEEE, Lourenço A. Pereira Jr, Marcos R. O. A. Maximo, Member, IEEE,
Vitor V. Curtis
Abstract—According to recent studies, unmanned aerial ve-
hicles can play a game-changing part in cost reduction and
speed increase to address the last-mile delivery problem and
attend to emergencies. Last-mile delivery services are getting
more and more relevant, especially when in times when social
distance is required. However, a systemic view of how to provide
a feasible solution to enable this application as a vertical market
in the urban context is still inexistent. Given this scenario,
our paper contributes by proposing a cyber-physical system
roadmap applicable to last-mile delivery drones. The proposed
CPS guidelines are based on the system of systems to enable
an enhanced operation towards smart cities’ governance. This
paper also discusses topics from air space control and reserva-
tion to communication infrastructure and decentralized control
supported on a blockchain.
Index Terms—Unmanned aerial vehicles, Drones, Last-mile de-
livery, Cyber-physical systems, B5G, Edge Computing, Tradable
permit model, Blockchain.
I. INTRODUCTION
UNMANNED aerial vehicles (UAVs) can play a game-
changing part in terms of cost reduction and speed
increase to address the last-mile delivery (LMD) problem and
also to attend to emergencies [1].
The LMD services are getting more and more important,
especially when in times where social distance is required [2].
Studies indicate that the last-mile is one of the most expensive,
inefficient, and polluting parts within the supply chain. It
can reach from 13 to 75% of the total supply chain cost
in given scenarios [3]. Also, last-mile delivery services are a
concern for the major e-commerce retailers including Amazon,
Walmart, and Alibaba. In this context, UAVs, also known as
drones, are of special interest [4]. For a recent study on the
economic viability of UAVs for LMD and end-user propensity
for this technology, see [5].
According to [6], the usage of drones for delivery purposes
can have at least four main advantages: (i) autonomy, (ii)
avoidance of traditional road network, (iii) cost, and (iv) speed.
Despite these advantages, there are lots of open issues, such
as airspace utilization, payload capacity planning, auto-pilot,
and navigation in shadow areas.
Drones can be remote-controlled or even fully autonomous,
depending on local regulations. These regulatory agencies’
Authors are with the Computer Science Division, Aeronautics Institute of
Technology – ITA, São José dos Campos, SP, 12228-900 Brazil
Manuscript received Sep. 5, 2022; revised Oct. 17, 2022.
policies vary from place to place. Generally, drones are
classified into high-altitude platforms (HAPs), e.g. 17+ km,
or low-altitude platforms (LAPs), e.g. tens of meters to few
kilometers. HAPs are mostly regarded as quasi-stationary
and present better endurance to face a few days to months
campaign. On the other hand, LAPs are more agile, cost-
effective, and can be recharged in a much faster way.
Drones are also categorized depending on their aeronautical
frame: they can be fixed- or rotary-wings in this sense. The
former, such as small planes, have higher speeds and can carry
more load, but they need to keep flying forward with relatively
high speeds to stay in the air, making it harder to perform
sharp maneuvers. The latter can be represented by a quadrotor
drone that can hover at lower speeds or even in place, however,
their flight autonomy is limited to less than one hour [7] given
the current electronic battery technologies. A hybrid drone is
also possible, i.e. having fixed- and rotary-wings on the same
platform.
As mentioned by Alwateer and Loke [8], drones are on
the edge of the delivery service. This can be confirmed
as initiatives in the air traffic management (ATM) system,
including SESAR and NextGen, indicate ongoing development
along with future communication infrastructure preparations.
According to [9], unmanned aircraft systems (UASs) traf-
fic management (UTM) is the traffic management operating
along with ATM. The UTM’s goal is to have a system that
safely integrates drones into air traffic considering low-altitude
airspace. In this environment, there is also the concept of
advanced air mobility (AAM) [10]. The mission of AAM
is to leverage the emerging flight market towards an air
transportation ecosystem moving people and things by having
new and very modern aircraft, such as UAS or drones.
Aerial delivery may impact merchandise, courier, food
delivery, humanitarian aid, and passenger transport [11]. The
last is considered very ambitious but it is already planned
and being scratched. These applications require agents (e.g.
UAV’s or drones) to have a plan and execute delivery routes
taking into account cost and time minimization while avoiding
collisions with other agents and the environment.
Given this overall picture, our paper introduces a cyber-
physical system’s (CPS) roadmap applicable for LMD drones
(LMDDs). The presented CPS guidelines are based on the sys-
tem of systems (SoS) concept to enable an enhanced operation
towards smart cities’ governance. We divide it into six main
0000–0000/00$00.00 © 2022 IEEE
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2 IEEE AEROSPACE AND ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS MAGAZINE, VOL. XX, NO. Y, JANUARY 2023
concerns: airspace control and reservation, geofencing service,
drone navigation, communication infrastructure, safety mecha-
nisms, and delivery and pick-up facilities. We approach these
in dedicated sections or associated with the other concepts.
Considering our solution components’ orthogonality, we also
discuss blockchain and its benefits. The argument proposed
in the present paper is also supported by previous experi-
ments, simulations, and results from [12]. There, we addressed
the context of last-mile delivery drones by comparing fully
cooperative centralized and distributed scenarios. The latter
indicates attractive benefits such as fast permit transactions,
simple computational infrastructures, and error resilience.
In summary, the main contribution of this paper is the
proposal of a layered architecture, exposing decoupled com-
ponents and their interactions, to enable the innovative and
theoretical approach of airspace control based on economic
principles, as fair and efficiency, namely the tradable permits
for airspace solution presented in [12]. We also conduct a
systemic view on how to provide a feasible and scalable
solution to enable it as a vertical market in the urban context,
still inexistent in the literature. And finally, we discuss how it
can be integrated into current regulations.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. We
present the current state-of-the-art in Section Section II. In
Section III, we introduce our proposed CPS for LMD. In the
next sections, we detail each aspect of the system: airspace
reservation and mobility model (Section IV), communications
(Section V), route planning (Section VI), safety and certifica-
tion (Section VII), and decentralized control (Section VIII).
Finally, Section IX provides final remarks and future research
directions, followed by a list of acronyms used in this paper
(Table II).
II. RELATED WORKS
[13] presents a view of characteristics, perspectives, and
challenges addressing the use of drones for delivery in urban
areas. It includes artificial intelligence (AI) on the edge and
discusses the regulatory issues that jeopardize the predictions
for that application. Nevertheless, a delivery drone system
requires a deep integration among physical systems, software,
and regulatory instruments to work correctly. In this sense,
the City-ATM aims to enable UAVs and air taxis in uncon-
trolled airspace [14]. However, this approach can face different
bottlenecks in a more overloaded system, and scalability can
become an impediment. Therefore, a game-theoretic model for
assuring airspace reservation and clearance in flight operation
could mitigate this issue.
The use of drones as an enabling technology for more
innovative and faster LMD systems are under investigation in
the past years. As developed by [15], a suite of software for
operating in urban areas is essential for effective deployment.
However, new methods are still required for telemetry and
forward current state information to controlling agencies.
As pointed by [16], despite privacy constitutes one of the
primary concerns, the use of drones is a well-accepted idea for
delivery. Environmental benefits should be in discussing, as in-
dicated considerable gains adopting drones versus motorcycle-
based [17]. Thereby, developing a holistic system to support
a concrete roadmap towards the conceptualization of this
application can improve the state-of-the-art in the field.
In this context, controlling and synchronizing possessing the
airspace is a challenging task. Indeed, UAVs occupy a physical
space in a temporal-based model. As the results obtained in
Salamanca, Spain [18], the vehicles must be aware of their
routes and report their status to an external system. However,
an actual implementation needs more communication infras-
tructure efforts (e.g., 5G and multi-access edge computing
(MEC)) and safety mechanisms to address unreliability of the
wireless medium, duration of batteries, high mobility degree,
and other issues [19]. Also, control layers need to deal with
complex scenarios to coordinate heterogeneous entities [20].
Reservation and route planning constitutes the initial phase
in the operation of the airspace dedicated to urban applications.
[21] describe a flight-planning system and highlight the impor-
tance of mapping the terrain model to the system. Therefore,
identifying and specifying the currently enabled airspace is
essential for this modality. Moreover, it requires the space
segmentation to be available a priori for a free dispute to
acquire operational permission.
Capacity planning also must be considered. Differently
from terrestrial mode, traffic jams are impractical and can
lead to catastrophic scenarios. [22] presents results in favor
of vertical lanes to improve the system capacity. Therefore,
players and the regulatory body must interact from the early
stages of the permission process, identifying constraints to
mitigate posterior allocation conflicts. In that regard, [23], [24]
presents a framework to estimate the traffic density to cities in
Europe. However, safety operations require a tightly coupled
integration with other systems and subsystems.
As we can see from the related works, there is increasing
effort to use drones for urban applications. However, as a
complex system by nature, most scientific findings approach
a part of the problem, missing the integration and losing the
holistic view of the system. To address this gap, our work
differs from the others in two main points: (i) we devise a
set of essential services assuring the safety, civilian access
to the airspace, and communication during flights (benefiting
from the previous existing cellular infrastructure); and (ii)
by considering the chaining of different systems in order to
emerge as concise and seamless scalability. To the best of
our knowledge, this is the first work considering the use of
drones for delivery systems backed by services of safety,
communication, geofencing, airspace control and reservation,
navigation, and multi-modal endpoints for delivery and pickup.
III. PROPOSED CPS FOR LMDD
The CPS for LMDD comprises a) airspace control and reser-
vation, b) geofencing service, c) drone navigation, d) commu-
nication infrastructure, e) safety mechanisms, and f) delivery
and pick-up infrastructure. Together they form a SoS and must
be tightly coupled to produce an enhanced operation to enable
smart city governance.
In Fig. 1, we propose an layered architecture where the use
of drones for delivery and pick-up forms a vertical application
in the context of communication, i.e. 5G. This layered ar-
chitecture allows drones to control navigation and geofencing
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FAIÇAL et al.: A CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEM’S ROADMAP TO LAST-MILE DELIVERY DRONES 3
Figure 1: Proposed layered architecture, where the gray color rectangle at the bottom represents the application infrastructure,
while the layers at the top are the actual application and services.
within a corridor, requiring low-latency and massive machine-
type communication. Safety is crucial to signal tackle with
different situations, such as emergency landing, i.e. forced
landing. The airspace traffic control (a supervisory system)
monitors the flight lifecycle (plan, takeoff, ongoing, cruise
and transients, and landing) and permits adherence. Moreover,
it sends safety-related messages to assure proper operations.
The layered approach also supports other applications: surveil-
lance, weather forecasts, and mobile network cells.
Figure 2 illustrates the proposed CPS and the relationships
among their subsystems. The airspace control and reservation
provides geofencing services (within a drone corridor) with
minimal human intervention using decentralized control and
bookkeeping. Drones in the system must be equipped with
appropriate sensors and radios to interact with the communi-
cation infrastructure. Safety mechanisms provide to the drones
the information to navigate, including fencing block informa-
tion. Finally, a delivery and pick-up infrastructure relies on
the other subsystems to enable LMDD applications.
Following, we discuss each of the subsystems in our pro-
posed CPS.
a) The airspace control and reservation: A ground-
breaking feature is to bring the airspace’s reservation and
utilization to a civilian context, allowing the private sector to
operate without the burden of the human-in-the-loop process.
As a smart city resource, the airspace can be segmented
and objected to allocating a specific space during a specific
timespan to a tenant. We propose an economic model to permit
sustainability with revenue and constant upgrading, conducive
to a public-private partnership.
b) Geofencing service: The airspace segmentation allows
reserving a specific location for a given set of aircraft, defining
four-dimensional fencing block: altitude, longitude, latitude,
and timespan. The block size is location-dependent, but small
sizes supply flexibility and efficiency to airspace utilization,
granted after an auction process. The complete workflow
consists of a sequence of bids where players (organizations
willing to operate in the system) intent to acquire a set of
permits to form a path. In the end, a blockchain system persists
all exchanges. Then, the player submits a mission to start
the operation. It results in an auction-oriented mission, where
only authorized players can operate in a path. The geofencing
service also plays a role in the safety mechanisms. Specific
paths can be reserved for emergency flights, for instance.
Moreover, players must be notified when bad weather or other
unsuitable conditions restrict the operational airspace. In this
sense, geofencing service is a specialized concept that can take
place in a more general concept, i.e. drone corridor. Therefore,
it is possible to have different geofencing services within the
same drone corridor.
c) Drones and navigation: Drones need to have on-
board sensors and communication radios to provide safety
and reduce variance in operation. A player-owned ground
control station (GCS) must manage its fleet, enabling adaptive
algorithms to tackle changes in the state system dynamically.
Furthermore, the smart city administration can interrupt ongo-
ing missions, which is crucial to implement city-wide safety
services concerning weather conditions, such as wind, rain,
fog, and snow.
d) Communication infrastructure: The communication
infrastructure must perform missions accordingly. It requires
massive machine-type communications (mMTC) and ultra-
reliable low-latency communications (URLLC). It is also
important to incorporate security aspects for authentication and
authorization.
e) Safety mechanisms: A set of physical points must
be available throughout the airspace, serving as a safe spot
in which drones can land in case of unappropriated opera-
tion conditions. Due to the operational environment’s natural
volatility, a safe point is strategical to emergencies includ-
ing battery drained, erratic weather, among others. A safety
notification system is also required. Players must be notified
about the weather forecast, drones that are detected outside
their reserved fencing blocks, and other important events that
affect flight conditions.
f) Delivery and pick-up infrastructure: They correspond
to places where missions start and also where they end. The
starting terminal is potentially a logistic center where oper-
ators dispatch packets to delivery, yet they realize advanced
approaches such as Amazon’s zeppelin. At the delivery place
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4 IEEE AEROSPACE AND ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS MAGAZINE, VOL. XX, NO. Y, JANUARY 2023
Figure 2: Relationship among subsystems of the proposed CPS.
(the mission ending point) must exist a spot to automatically
receive the packet. It can be static (in buildings or houses), or
mobile like the top of cars (Uber use case).
IV. AIRSPACE RESERVATION AND MOBILITY MODEL
The volume of urban UAVs is expected to grow in the next
years. One of the foreseen challenges of this growth is how
to manage that traffic. In this matter, we argue that schemes
available in the literature about urban motorways traffic (UMT)
can be adapted to urban UAV traffic (UAT).
Even though many traffic models have been proposed and
employed for UMT [25], their application to UAT is not trivial.
We highlight the following reasons:
• Constraints related to the airways are inherently less
restrictive than motorways. As a result, optimal flight
planning in airways commonly becomes unfeasible for
many agents, e.g. drones. Constraints in the airspace must
be imposed carefully to achieve a reasonable scenario;
and
• Although airspace congestion is less likely than motor-
ways congestion, the consequences regarding failures are
far more serious. Thus, safety considerations must not be
undermined.
Traditional ATM schemes avoid congestions, and collisions
altogether, by using a central unit. Such a unit plans strict
paths for each aircraft and oversees them. However, traditional
schemes are not appropriate to deal with the responsiveness
requirements of LMD.
Tradable permit model (TPM) is a novel approach to cope
with a capacity allocation that uses a market mechanism to
assign rights to users of a particular resource [25]. Permit
schemes have received growing attention in the academic
literature. Permit’s decentralized nature brings advantages over
centralized approaches [26]. In the context of LMDD, the
airspace is the resource of interest.
Several researchers study the coordination of swarms of
cooperating drones [27] or the optimization of planned routes
globally [28]. We argue that both approaches are not suitable
for managing the mobility of LMDD if it is taken individually.
Let’s consider the players, which are companies or individuals
that own LMDDs and desire to use the airspace. First, in real-
world scenarios, it is unfeasible to constrain different players
to use the same given strategy to coordinate their drones.
Moreover, a central entity that calculates the optimal route
for each LMDD in the airspace would require an impractical
computational power.
Given this, we propose a TPM that serves as a guideline
to nextgen aircraft control for LMDD. Related schemes have
been proposed [26]–[29]. However, our approach raises the
novel challenge of cooperation and competition in a much
more realistic scenario. We describe such a mobility model in
the following subsections.
A. Free-Market Permit Concession
In real scenarios, many players have specific interests in the
usage of the airspace. Some interests, however, will certainly
conflict. For instance, two players might want to use the same
space at the same time to accomplish the delivery mission
within the expected time.
Solving the conflicts in a decentralized cooperative way,
e.g. relying on common strategies among different players,
would require impractical regulatory and expensive oversight
mechanisms. Conversely, in the competitive view, each player
must obtain beforehand a permit to use the desired airspace at
the desired time. In this context, a permit is an authorization to
use a specific volume in the airspace for a specific timespan,
that is, a fencing block. As a result, the regulatory oversight
would focus on inspecting whether LMDDs have a permit
instead of scrutinizing each flight for compliance with a given
policy.
Still, a centralized permit concession procedure has some
limitations: a) optimizing routes, airspace usage, and financial
gains becomes computationally unfeasible as the number of
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FAIÇAL et al.: A CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEM’S ROADMAP TO LAST-MILE DELIVERY DRONES 5
players increases; b) response time of the central system might
not be feasible for LMDD; c) a centralized system is not robust
to failure or attacks, making it as a single point of attack; and
d) the downtime of the system would result in catastrophic,
i.e. financial-related, outcomes.
As a possible yet strong solution, the free-market distributed
permit concession is in place. In this scheme, each player
would bid for a sequence of adjacent permits that accomplishes
its mission. Once a player acquires permits, it can freely use or
trade them. Each permit is always owned by some entity. That
means regions of the airspace, and consequently, a portion of
the permits would be previously assigned to public- or private-
sector organizations.
To assert the feasibility of such an approach, we designed
a multi-agent system simulation of the TPM scheme for UAV.
In [12], we simulate players in a TPM under different arrival
rates, i.e. number of players competing in the auction, by
focusing on two main perspectives: a) an assessment on the
time and cost agents have to complete their mission; and
b) an estimate of the effective airspace usage. The results
from that research showed that even a naïve decentralized
competitive approach yields satisfactory results under high
traffic conditions. Also, there was evidence that smarter agents
can behave better. From a practical perspective, such a study
found out interesting properties emerging from the agents’
collective behavior that could drive how airspace policies are
defined.
In our proposal, some research questions regarding the
parameters of the concession mechanism are central. For
instance, one must address the kind of auction and the appro-
priate time and space scales of the permits for each practical
scenario.
B. Optimal Usage of the Airspace and Collision Avoidance
Although we argue that full cooperative schemes and full
centralized schemes are not practical, central cooperative in-
structions are unavoidable inside the player’s perspective.
Once a player owns the sequence of permits to use the
airspace, it uses the respective airspace as desired, of course,
by respecting the security and safety regulations. For instance,
each player surely owns several LMDDs to fulfill many
delivery missions. Then, it needs to coordinate its resources
to optimize its gains while satisfying the space and time
constraints.
Given a set of drones owned by the same player, they can
work cooperatively. We discuss the details about the coordi-
nation of drones, including collision avoidance, at this level
in Section VI. Another fundamental aspect of coordination is
the communication infrastructure and the requirements of the
real-time control system.
V. COMMUNICATION SYSTEM INFRASTRUCTURE
To cope with the LMDD system’s complexity, we assume
full connected infrastructure and battery-bound operation re-
quirements. In this communication system infrastructure con-
text, researchers also take into account common UAV commu-
nication protocols over cellular links [30], passive sensor nodes
in a local sensor network [31], and mobile target tracking [32].
We consider the smart city scenario typical for deployment
and key-technologies to support this system’s viable imple-
mentation. Thus, it will be feasible to exist communication
amongst the aircraft in the system and aircraft to the ground
base station, resembling vehicle to vehicle (V2V) and vehicle
to infrastructure (V2I) communication model. Offload of pro-
cessing must be another resource available as a service in this
infrastructure, possibly in the form of MEC.
Our TPM for LMD [12] enables large-scale operations with
multiple layers in altitude, each one segmented to form four-
dimensional geofencing units. Hence, many mMTC problems
can arise, as drones share the same media for communication.
On the other hand, the GCS requires an URLLC to provide
an offload of challenging computational tasks involved in
achieving global consensus of operations. Each drone sends
the sensor’s information to GCS periodically, allowing the
creation of discrete-time snapshots, optimizing configuration
parameters, and sending the new setup back to the aircraft.
Communications play a critical role in this feedback control
loop, acting as a bottleneck in this infrastructure.
Aircraft to aircraft (A2A) communication is typically in
line of sight and makes it possible to implement essential
services such as collision avoidance and trajectory planning.
A2A impacts not only in the same origin fleet but also on
other tenants using the airspace. Problems here include spectral
sharing and security issues involving authentication and au-
thorization. In this context, there are some protocols including
Mavlink. It is a protocol for message passing with drones,
and so security needs severe scrutiny. Aircraft to infrastructure
(A2I) communication, as a combination of access-network
and computational resources, enables the offload of critical
functions to the edge. It includes a global vision of a tenant
fleet, and the smart city takes control of the whole system to
provide safety (emergency or catastrophic situations). 5G and
beyond have addressed the problems we list here. However, it
requires more workload characterization to expose new knobs
not yet pondered for A2I.
Those requirements can culminate in new studies to pro-
vide realist service-level agreements (SLA) and quality of
service (QoS) to LMDD scenarios. The presence of MEC
is essential to cope with communications and processing
demands. Latency is another crucial metric, and all the el-
ements in the communication system, including front-haul
and backhaul, must carefully be engineered to meet SLA
and QoS constraints. The GCS efficiency is as good as the
capacity of the system in providing a lower latency experience.
Public-private partnerships can be meaningful for LMDD to
deploy adequate infrastructure to operations. In this sense, our
economic model of trade permit model supports a sustainable
modality, providing capital expenditure (CapEx) and operating
expenses (OpEx) resources.
Battery-aware aircraft provides efficiency to operations as it
can self-adapt to condiction dynamically. During operations,
expected and unexpected events impact energy consumption,
causing deviance on mission-planned versus actual conditions.
The main problem is in the sources of uncertainty, as on
commissioning is possible to estimate the minimal capacity
planning required. For example, due to uncontrollable weather
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6 IEEE AEROSPACE AND ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS MAGAZINE, VOL. XX, NO. Y, JANUARY 2023
changes, more processing power can arise during the mission,
making it different from the original. Thus, we can divide
resource utilization into two: bare-minimal and exceeding.
The former is about the basal resources consumed and known
before the mission. The latter is the unexpected and unknown
events that emerge dynamically. Processing the exceeding
demands MEC, provided an ecosystem with enough latency,
reliable, and cloud-enabled computing providers.
Such an infrastructure allows players to operate safely
and the smart city to implement an UTM architecture. Path
planning works as a core service for both and needs in-depth
analysis.
VI. ROUTE PLANNING
In a real context, UAVs can be simply considered as one
more transportation vector to existing supply chain manage-
ment and logistic systems. In such systems, decision-making
should consider not only profitability, but also service quality,
equity, consistency, simplicity, reliability, and externalities
[33]. The interrelations of these enterprise-wide challenges
play a key role, especially when seeking optimal solutions.
For LMD, this holistic view is even more important once it
represents a 13-75% economic opportunity of the total supply
chain [3]. Additionally, we consider the near future LMDD to
be autonomous, imposing strict safety constraints and dynamic
responses to unexpected events.
Although the integration of these challenges is crucial for
better solutions, optimizing all of them at once may become
infeasible and unrealistic, e.g. some decisions must be taken
only after the realization of an event. In order to address
the complexity of the LMDD, our proposed CPS suggests
handling the complexity of strategic decision-making by two
virtually decoupled perspectives: cooperative and free-market
(or competitive), while the dynamic responses are addressed
basically by the geofencing and drone navigation layers.
The cooperative perspective is responsible for the traditional
operation research (OR) tasks, e.g. fleet routing and path
planning, packing, scheduling, and others. This allows the
benefits from systems with decades of developments, cur-
rent system infrastructure, easy and cheap integration, multi-
objective optimization, and some level of isolation between the
LMDD problem modeling and the already deployed business
policies and strategies. This integration is simply achieved by
the interface of our application layer (highest layer of Fig. 1).
In OR, the vehicle routing problem (VRP) is the classical
approach when planning optimal routes for a fleet of delivery
vehicles from a depot to a set of geographically scattered
customers, subject to constraints [34]. It is a rich and broad
area of research with many variations, so VRP may be better
defined as a class of problems.
According to taxonomies [35], [36], LMDD can be bet-
ter described as a class of capacitated VRPs (CVRPs) and
distance-constrained VRP (DCVRP), respectively, when the
modeling has to consider limited carrying capacity for the
vehicles and the total length of the path in a route cannot
exceed a maximum limit. The VRP may be considered with
many other variations related to the LMDD, such as: VRP with
time windows (VRPTW) constraints, where allowable times
or time intervals are associated with every customer; periodic
VRP (PVRP), when the scheduling extends from one to many
days; and VRP with pickup and delivery (VRPPD) or VRP
with Backhauls (VRPB), where customers may return items.
Many solution strategies have been devised for VRP: exact
algorithms often employ formal optimization methods with
optimality guarantees but are limited to solving relatively small
instances of the problem; classical heuristics use heuristics
especially tailored to VRP; and metaheuristics employ general
black-box optimization algorithms, such as simulated anneal-
ing and genetic algorithms. Despite the loss of optimality
and feasibility guarantees, in practice, metaheuristics typically
work well and can find close to optimal solutions for large
instances of VRP in a reasonable amount of time [34].
During the cooperative decision-making, some level of
integration to the competitive perspective is expected due to
unknowns introduced by the free-market dynamics supported
by the airspace control layer. Specifically, it imposes additional
restrictions for geofencing blocks of high interest: an auction-
ing block may not be granted and its cost may be stochastic.
There are many ways to integrate the competition in the
VRP, however, the most direct approach is by modeling the
stochastic cost of the blocks as part of the distances to be
traversed by a UAV. In [12], we show that players can obtain
routes close to the optimal length using a naïve decentralized
approach at a satisfactory cost even in regions with very dense
competition. In other words, the competition introduced by
our CPS does not result in a considerable loss of optimality
for the OR tasks. Furthermore, we expect the players can
focus only on the neighboring blocks it desires, ignoring
most of the other blocks during optimization. We also expect
homogeneous costs for regions with low competition.
While the cooperative and competitive perspectives do not
necessarily require immediate responses, events from the
geofencing and the drone navigation layers may impose,
respectively, fast adaptative responses or instant actions for
safety reasons.
A common approach in OR for adaptative responses is
two or more stage models. These models are especially
interesting when just part of the variables must be defined
before some realization, while the other decisions may benefit
from the information of the realizations. After one event, a re-
optimization is required to adapt the decision to a new reality
[37]. In this case, the recourse decision must be feasible or
there is no way to optimize it. Another advantage of this
approach is that the original problem is broken into smaller
problems, making the solution more practical. Many other
solutions may be implemented for adaptative responses, e.g.
reinforcement learning may be used to learn new strategies for
the auction and routing optimizations.
Depending on the nature of the event, fast or real-time
decisions will be required for safety or security reasons. For
safety purposes, robust decisions to stochastic variables may
be required by the authorities to avoid harmful outcomes and
high losses for the players. Some examples of fast decisions
that can be avoided with robust approaches are a new weather
event identified by the airspace control layer imposing more
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FAIÇAL et al.: A CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEM’S ROADMAP TO LAST-MILE DELIVERY DRONES 7
restrictive conditions to the geofencing layer and the schedul-
ing of a path of geofencing blocks to a safe point due to
a battery drain event. The level of robustness required for
safe geofencing and navigation depends on many factors: the
environment, competition, amount of available safe points, and
others, and it is still an open issue. However, once the airspace
control and geofencing layer have autonomy for changing the
controlling parameters, they can mitigate harmful outcomes
as desired and by a third-party member independent of the
competitive interests of the players.
The most critical challenge to the LMDD is the real-time de-
cisions required for collision avoidance. The drone navigation
layer requires an infrastructure with real-time monitoring and
responses to perform fast maneuvers to avoid collisions. These
maneuvers reduce the battery autonomy and may result in the
abortion of delivery or pick-up missions, causing important
impacts to other players. This is the reason our CPS forces
collision events to be extremely rare by construction. In
addition to avoiding losses, it also prevents the need for various
re-optimizations needed if collisions were not rare.
Inter-agent collision avoidance is typically not dealt with
in VRP. This is theoretically possible and the interested re-
searcher could in principle benefit from the literature regarding
multi-agent trajectory planning through model predictive con-
trol (MPC) [38], [39], where inter-agent collision avoidance is
achieved by imposing additional constraints in an optimization
problem. Nevertheless, considering current processing power
and optimization solver technology, we consider that direct
inclusion of inter-agent collision avoidance in VRP would
make the optimization problem computationally intractable,
and certainly not suitable for real-time applications such as
the one proposed here.
A low-level solution is required for safety reasons. There
is a vast literature in robotics path planning that may be
employed [40], [41]. Due to the existence of a drone nav-
igation layer with low-latency communication infrastructure,
sophisticated control algorithms such as MPC-based trajec-
tory planners may be used [38], depending on the number
of UAVs and the available computational resources. These
algorithms could operate in a closed-loop fashion, taking into
account recent information collected by the drones and the
communication infrastructure. Independent to the approach
taken, an embedded local and decentralized obstacle avoidance
system based on the drone’s sensor readings should always
be present to permit quick reactions to unexpected obstacles
and continue mission execution when communication with the
drone navigation layer is lost.
VII. REGULATORY DIRECTIONS
The use of drones, from recreational flying to commercial
uses, is a concern for safety and certification. Whether manned
or unmanned aircraft, the Federal Aviation Administration
(FAA) requires that all operators follow specific guidelines for
the operations they request. Currently, the Part 135 addresses a
set of rules for the certification of UAV. Basically, the Part 135
is not dedicated to UAV but is the only path for small drones
to carry the property of another for compensation beyond the
visual line of sight.
UAV considers that operation is outside the aircraft, and
no human is onboard, but the vehicle is controlled from
the ground. The UAV certification has some regulations for
vehicles and operators, to ensure safety. The use of drones,
in connection with a business activity, is allowed in many
countries, but under very strict conditions. In most countries,
one will need different authorizations or licenses from the
National Aviation Authority before starting any operation.
However, for autonomous UAVs (AUAVs), few or no regula-
tions are available at this point and it is very unclear if current
regulation for manned aircraft vehicles will fit this need. The
operator is an automatic onboard pilot system (AOBPS), which
refers to the level of automation of the drone when, at the
highest level of automation, this is about piloting functions and
on-board decision making with little or no human intervention.
In this paper, we are considering the AUAV are drones used
for package delivery.
The central issue is related to the concept of “explainability”
of AI, which refers to the fact that, unlike traditional software
code that can be read and understood logically, the inner
workings of a neural network can be difficult to understand.
Today all systems and software development revolves around
a tripod: requirements, development and tests, where require-
ments describe the behavior that will be developed and tests
confirm that the development was carried out according to the
specified requirements.
The use of machine learning, or any other AI technology,
is still a challenge. If in large aircraft there is still a certain
restriction, or even fear of passengers boarding a remotely
piloted aircraft, the same happens, but to a lesser extent
in AUAV. While automation has been a function of aircraft
systems for decades, AI – which, unlike automation, enables
high-level machine decision making [42].
The authors of this work believe that autonomously func-
tioning algorithms, especially with machine learning imple-
mentations, need requirements not for the direction of devel-
opment, but rather to ensure that the learning algorithms are
suitable so that the AUAVs in their operations do not incur
in some marginal safety condition. In June 2020, interested
members from leading companies in the aerospace engineering
community came together to answer this critical question with
the creation of a new standards effort focused on certifying au-
tonomous systems with machine learning and other AI-related
items. From this work a new joint international committee was
born, SAE G-34/Eurocae WG-114.
We should especially analyze the certification regulations in
the following areas:
• Safety assessment; and
• Software and hardware certification.
A. Safety Assessment
This process is focused on identifying functional failure
conditions leading to hazards that are closely related to de-
velopment assurance levels (DALs). Currently, there are five
DALs, as presented in Table I with their respective maximum
probability per flight hour (MPFH).
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
8 IEEE AEROSPACE AND ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS MAGAZINE, VOL. XX, NO. Y, JANUARY 2023
Table I: Hazard Classification and DAL
Hazard
Classification
DAL MPFH
Catastrophic A 10−9
Hazardous B 10−7
Major C 10−5
Minor D 10−3
No Effect E –
Then, some questions are needed to be answered. Is the
MPFH of 10−9 acceptable for the most critical hazard clas-
sification of system failures for AUAV, especially for LMDD
vehicles? We believe that yes, this is acceptable. Basically,
if an aircraft with about 600 passengers uses this concept,
why a small drone for LMDD can’t use the same approach?
Another question is the industry of drones perform a traditional
safety-assessment process during drone projects, according to
our research and literature review: no, they do not. Then,
regulations can be used as is, but the industry should adapt its
development processes to allow compliance with regulations.
B. Software and Hardware Certifications
The RTCA DO-178C and DO-254 have been used as
acceptable means of compliance for software and hardware
to ensure safety in the appropriate level of rigor, according to
the safety assessment. However, the AOBPS will coordinate
the operation of other systems of the AUAV. So, the study of
additional characteristics must be performed to ensure if the
software and hardware level must be increased to level A+,
as traditionally, software and hardware systems follow a pro-
cess rigor considering a non-autonomous flight. Additionally,
current software standards, as DO-178C, use a concept that be-
havior must be deterministic and the software is specified with
an enormous amount of detailed requirements that describe its
behavior. The use of technologies such as machine learning,
which make the solutions present an evolutionary behavior,
cause some incompatibility with the way these regulations
were conceived.
VIII. A DECENTRALIZED CONTROL AND BOOKKEEPING
As a CPS representing a critical infrastructure and com-
posed of multiple players, the system’s fundamental responsi-
bility concerns how data dissemination throughout the commu-
nications systems (potentially the Internet) occurs. Cybersecu-
rity is the main focus of this service, guaranteeing integrity,
availability, consistency, resistance to distributed denial of
service (DDoS), and 51% attacks and authorization and au-
thentication [43]. Blockchain-based systems provide a robust
framework to this end, allowing rapid evaluation of different
alternatives and configurations to scenarios in future study
cases. Therefore, this framework supports the bookkeeping of
crucial information inside and across the subsystems.
The airspace reservation procedure consists of a sequence
of bids to acquire a permit associated with a particular
geofencing block. Players race to achieve a list of adjacent
permits, and, during a period, the reservation converges to
a consistent state, where each player has the right to use a
path. Thus, a set of transactions can be stored as a public
resource, as players use the airspace concurrently, whereas the
entities responsible for the ATM govern the system utilization.
The sharing mechanism is a critical point of failure in this
context: malicious users can intentionally manipulate data to
induce error-prone operational conditions, potentially causing
malfunctioning, leading to hazard situations.
Adopting a blockchain-based system for data dissemination
leverages benefits to the system as a whole [44]. When a
new set of transactions is ready, it is signed and included
as a block after being validated by more the half of peers
present in the system. The system hashes all data and stores
it in a Merkle tree structure. Tampering the information in
blocks will require substantial computing resources, as players
and other entities store replicas. It is worth mentioning that
the game-theoretic method to insert information must be
under investigation. Consensus models, such as proof-of-work,
can lead to advantages to specific scenarios. However, other
schemes can outperform it, e.g. proof-of-event, proof-of-stake,
and proof-of-authority.
The workload imposed on the system is dependent on the
permits’ size. More oversized permits decrease the number
of combinations to form a path, and vice-versa. Thus, smaller
permits occasion more degrees of freedom, which increases the
number of transactions in the system. Consensus mechanisms
dominate the throughput and consequently impact availability.
A careful study investigating different mechanisms is encour-
aged and can yield useful insights to tackle the variables’
trade-off between consensus speed and security level [45],
[46].
The replicas’ distributed nature in the blockchain allows
consistency, serving as a fault-tolerance feature and a source of
truth in the system. Another advantage of it is the robustness in
the face of DDoS attacks since there is no centralized entity in
the system. A malicious user intending to insert poisoned data
needs to compromise 51% of the participants in the system.
Assuming blockchain is flexible enough to scale out the nodes
participating in the process, 51% attacks are costly, and there
are mechanisms to mitigate them, e.g. by adding more nodes.
IX. SUMMARY
In this paper, we tackled an emerging topic for research:
LMDD. Particularly, we proposed a high-level CPS to this
topic in order to enhance smart city governance. Our sys-
tem is a SoS that is composed of six different subsys-
tems: (1) airspace control and reservation, (2) geofencing
service, (3) drone navigation, (4) communication infrastruc-
ture, (5) safety mechanisms, and (6) delivery and pick-up
infrastructure. These subsystems are expected to work together
to increase the quality of the whole ecosystem.
Our proposed guidelines provide a path towards future CPS
applicable to LMDD.
For next research works, we intend to address two dif-
ferent directions. The first direction is micro-level research.
The development of each one of the six subsystems of our
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FAIÇAL et al.: A CYBER-PHYSICAL SYSTEM’S ROADMAP TO LAST-MILE DELIVERY DRONES 9
cyber system individually. And the second direction is macro-
level research. The integration of those subsystems aiming to
enhance our cyber system as a whole.
Other interesting topics for future research are those related
to some limitations of our current approach. Although the
previous work [12] shows that the planning and acquisition
of tradable permits are feasible through a simple heuristic,
we expect efficient results to be obtained only by complex
computational strategies and dependent on the latency of
the platform in persisting the current state of the system.
Considering a persistence layer in a distributed manner, e.g.
blockchain, may limit the efficiency of such solutions. In such
case, decision-making under uncertainty may be a solution to
this problem.
The proposed solution was developed for the context of
LMDD services. Thus, further studies should be conducted to
verify its feasibility in the context of other applications.
Finally, the current approach only considers drones with
communication capabilities. While this is a limitation to be
explored, we consider the prohibition of drones without com-
munication capability as pertinent for safety reasons.
ACRONYMS LIST
REFERENCES
[1] K. Dorling, J. Heinrichs, G. G. Messier, and S. Magierowski, “Vehicle
routing problems for drone delivery,” IEEE Transactions on Systems,
Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 70–85, 2017.
[2] V. Chamola, V. Hassija, V. Gupta, and M. Guizani, “A comprehensive
review of the covid-19 pandemic and the role of iot, drones, ai,
blockchain, and 5g in managing its impact,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp.
90 225–90 265, 2020.
[3] J. Olsson, D. Hellström, and H. Pålsson, “Framework of last mile
logistics research: A systematic review of the literature,” Sustainability,
vol. 11, no. 24, 2019.
[4] D. Schneider, “The delivery drones are coming,” IEEE Spectrum, vol. 57,
no. 1, pp. 28–29, 2020.
[5] F. Borghetti, C. Caballini, A. Carboni, G. Grossato, R. Maja, and
B. Barabino, “The use of drones for last-mile delivery: A numerical
case study in milan, italy,” Sustainability, vol. 14, no. 3, 2022. [Online].
Available: https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/14/3/1766
[6] Q. M. Ha, Y. Deville, Q. D. Pham, and M. H. Hà, “On the
min-cost traveling salesman problem with drone,” Transportation
Research Part C: Emerging Technologies, vol. 86, pp. 597 – 621,
2018. [Online]. Available: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0968090X17303327
[7] M. Mozaffari, W. Saad, M. Bennis, Y. Nam, and M. Debbah, “A
tutorial on uavs for wireless networks: Applications, challenges, and
open problems,” IEEE Communications Surveys Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 3,
pp. 2334–2360, 2019.
[8] M. Alwateer and S. W. Loke, “On-drone decision making for service
delivery: Concept and simulation,” in 2019 IEEE International Confer-
ence on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops (PerCom
Workshops), 2019, pp. 937–942.
[9] NASA, “What is Unmanned Aircraft Systems Traffic Management?”
https://www.nasa.gov/ames/utm, 2021, accessed: 2022-10-14.
[10] ——, “Advanced Air Mobility Mission Overview,”
https://www.nasa.gov/aam/overview/, 2021, accessed: 2022-10-14.
[11] E. Frachtenberg, “Practical drone delivery,” Computer, vol. 52, no. 12,
pp. 53–57, 2019.
[12] F. A. N. Verri, C. A. C. Marcondes, D. S. Loubach, E. F. Sbruzzi,
J. C. Marques, L. A. P. Júnior, and M. R. O. A. Máximo, “An analysis
on tradable permit models for last-mile delivery drones,” IEEE Access,
vol. 8, pp. 186 279–186 290, 2020.
[13] E. Frachtenberg, “Practical drone delivery,” Computer, vol. 52, no. 12,
pp. 53–57, 2019.
[14] S. Kern, D. Geister, and B. Korn, “City-atm — demonstration of traffic
management in urban airspace in case of bridge inspection,” in 2019
IEEE/AIAA 38th Digital Avionics Systems Conference (DASC), 2019,
pp. 1–10.
Table II: List of acronyms.
Acronym Meaning
A2A Aircraft to Aircraft
A2I Aircraft to Infrastructure
AAM Advanced Air Mobility
AI Artificial Intelligence
AOBPS Automatic Onboard Pilot System
ATM Air Traffic Management
AUAV Autonomous UAV
CapEx Capital Expenditure
CPS Cyber-Physical System
CVRP Capacitated VRP
DAL Development Assurance Level
DCVRP Distance-Contrained VRP
DDoS Distributed Denial of Service
FAA Federal Aviation Administration
GCS Ground Control Station
HAP High-Altitude Plataform
LAP Low-Altitude Platform
LMD Last-Mile Delivery
LMDD Last-Mile Delivery Drone
MEC Multi-Access Edge Computing
mMTC Massive Machine-Type Communication
MPC Model Predictive Control
OP Operation Research
OpEx Operating Expenses
POW Proof-of-Work
PVRP Periodic VRP
QoS Quality of Service
SLA Service-Level Agreement
SoS System of Systems
TPM Tradable Permit Model
UAS Unmanned Aircraft Systems
UAT Urban UAV Traffic
UAV Unmanned Aerial Vehicle
UMT Urban Motorways Traffic
URLLC Ultra-Reliable Low-Latency Communication
UTM Unmanned Traffic Management
V2I Vehicle to Infrastructure
V2V Vehicle to Vehicle
VRP Vehicle Routing Problem
VRPB VRP with Backhauls
VRPPD VRP with Pickup and Delivery
VRPTW VRP with Time-Window Constraints
[15] G. Brunner, B. Szebedy, S. Tanner, and R. Wattenhofer, “The urban last
mile problem: Autonomous drone delivery to your balcony,” in 2019
International Conference on Unmanned Aircraft Systems (ICUAS), 2019,
pp. 1005–1012.
[16] R. Khan, S. Tausif, and A. Javed Malik, “Consumer acceptance of
delivery drones in urban areas,” International Journal of Consumer
Studies, vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 87–101, 2019.
[17] J. Park, S. Kim, and K. Suh, “A comparative analysis of the
environmental benefits of drone-based delivery services in urban and
rural areas,” Sustainability, vol. 10, no. 3, 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://www.mdpi.com/2071-1050/10/3/888
[18] P. Chamoso, A. González-Briones, A. Rivas, F. Bueno De Mata, and
J. M. Corchado, “The use of drones in spain: Towards a platform for
controlling uavs in urban environments,” Sensors, vol. 18, no. 5, 2018.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
10 IEEE AEROSPACE AND ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS MAGAZINE, VOL. XX, NO. Y, JANUARY 2023
[Online]. Available: https://www.mdpi.com/1424-8220/18/5/1416
[19] P. Boccadoro, D. Striccoli, and L. A. Grieco, “An extensive survey on
the internet of drones,” Ad Hoc Networks, vol. 122, p. 102600, 2021.
[Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S1570870521001335
[20] G. Grieco, G. Iacovelli, P. Boccadoro, and L. A. Grieco, “On the design
of the drone control layer,” in European Wireless 2021; 26th European
Wireless Conference. VDE, 2021, pp. 1–7.
[21] J. Besada, I. Campaña, L. Bergesio, A. Bernardos, and G. de Miguel,
“Drone flight planning for safe urban operations,” Personal and Ubiq-
uitous Computing, pp. 1–20, 2020.
[22] M. Doole, J. Ellerbroek, V. L. Knoop, and J. M. Hoekstra,
“Constrained urban airspace design for large-scale drone-based
delivery traffic,” Aerospace, vol. 8, no. 2, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://www.mdpi.com/2226-4310/8/2/38
[23] M. Doole, J. Ellerbroek, and J. Hoekstra, “Estimation of traffic
density from drone-based delivery in very low level urban airspace,”
Journal of Air Transport Management, vol. 88, p. 101862, 2020.
[Online]. Available: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/
S0969699719304004
[24] ——, “Drone delivery: Urban airspace traffic density estimation,” 8th
SESAR Innovation Days, 2018, 2018.
[25] W. Fan and X. Jiang, “Tradable mobility permits in roadway capacity
allocation: Review and appraisal,” Transport Policy, vol. 30, pp.
132–142, nov 2013. [Online]. Available: https://linkinghub.elsevier.
com/retrieve/pii/S0967070X13001352
[26] D. K. Brands, E. T. Verhoef, J. Knockaert, and P. R. Koster, “Tradable
permits to manage urban mobility: Market design and experimental
implementation,” Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice,
vol. 137, pp. 34 – 46, 2020.
[27] J. Wang, C. Jiang, Z. Han, Y. Ren, R. G. Maunder, and L. Hanzo,
“Taking drones to the next level: Cooperative distributed unmanned-
aerial-vehicular networks for small and mini drones,” IEEE Vehicular
Technology Magazine, vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 73–82, 2017.
[28] T. Akamatsu and K. Wada, “Tradable network permits: A new scheme
for the most efficient use of network capacity,” Transportation Research
Part C: Emerging Technologies, vol. 79, pp. 178–195, 2017.
[29] Z. R. Bogdanowicz, “Flying swarm of drones over circulant digraph,”
IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and Electronic Systems, vol. 53, no. 6,
pp. 2662–2670, 2017.
[30] J. Morales, G. Rodriguez, G. Huang, and D. Akopian, “Toward uav
control via cellular networks: Delay profiles, delay modeling, and a case
study within the 5-mile range,” IEEE Transactions on Aerospace and
Electronic Systems, pp. 1–1, 2020.
[31] S. Siewert, M. Andalibi, S. Bruder, I. Gentilini, and J. Buchholz,
“Drone net architecture for uas traffic management multi-modal sensor
networking experiments,” in 2018 IEEE Aerospace Conference, 2018,
pp. 1–18.
[32] A. Das, S. Shirazipourazad, D. Hay, and A. Sen, “Tracking of multiple
targets using optimal number of uavs,” IEEE Transactions on Aerospace
and Electronic Systems, vol. 55, no. 4, pp. 1769–1784, 2019.
[33] T. Vidal, G. Laporte, and P. Matl, “A concise guide to existing and
emerging vehicle routing problem variants,” European Journal of Oper-
ational Research, 2019.
[34] G. Laporte, “Fifty years of vehicle routing,” Transportation Science,
vol. 43, no. 4, p. 408–416, Nov. 2009. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1287/trsc.1090.0301
[35] B. Eksioglu, A. V. Vural, and A. Reisman, “The vehicle routing problem:
A taxonomic review,” Computers & Industrial Engineering, vol. 57,
no. 4, pp. 1472–1483, 2009.
[36] J. Caceres-Cruz, P. Arias, D. Guimarans, D. Riera, and A. A. Juan, “Rich
vehicle routing problem: Survey,” ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 47, no. 2,
Dec. 2014.
[37] H. N. Psaraftis, M. Wen, and C. A. Kontovas, “Dynamic vehicle routing
problems: Three decades and counting,” Networks, vol. 67, no. 1, pp.
3–31, 2016.
[38] A. Richards and J. P. How, “Robust variable horizon model predictive
control for vehicle maneuvering,” International Journal of Robust and
Nonlinear Control, vol. 16, no. 7, pp. 333–351, 2006.
[39] R. J. Afonso, M. R. Maximo, and R. K. Galvão, “Task allocation
and trajectory planning for multiple agents in the presence of
obstacle and connectivity constraints with mixed-integer linear
programming,” International Journal of Robust and Nonlinear
Control, vol. 30, no. 14, pp. 5464–5491, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/rnc.5092
[40] R. Siegwart, I. R. Nourbakhsh, and D. Scaramuzza, Introduction to
Autonomous Mobile Robots. Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA: The
MIT Press, February 2011.
[41] S. M. LaValle, Planning Algorithms. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge
University Press, 2006, available at http://planning.cs.uiuc.edu/.
[42] Mark Roboff, “Opinion: How To Demonstrate AI System’s Safety,”
https://aviationweek.com/aerospace/emerging-technologies/opinion-
how-demonstrate-ai-systems-safety, 2020, accessed: 2022-10-14.
[43] M. Saad, J. Spaulding, L. Njilla, C. Kamhoua, S. Shetty, D. Nyang, and
D. Mohaisen, “Exploring the attack surface of blockchain: A compre-
hensive survey,” IEEE Communications Surveys Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 3,
pp. 1977–2008, 2020.
[44] A. Kumari, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, and N. Kumar, “Blockchain-based mas-
sive data dissemination handling in iiot environment,” IEEE Network,
vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 318–325, 2021.
[45] L. Lao, Z. Li, S. Hou, B. Xiao, S. Guo, and Y. Yang, “A survey of iot
applications in blockchain systems: Architecture, consensus, and traffic
modeling,” ACM Comput. Surv., vol. 53, no. 1, Feb. 2020. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1145/3372136
[46] Y. Xiao, N. Zhang, W. Lou, and Y. T. Hou, “A survey of distributed
consensus protocols for blockchain networks,” IEEE Communications
Surveys Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1432–1465, 2020.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Aerospace and Electronic Systems Magazine. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/MAES.2023.3240112
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:21:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.