The Performance Evaluation of Blockchain-Based Security and Privacy Systems for the Internet of Things: A Tutorial
17236 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
The Performance Evaluation of Blockchain-Based
Security and Privacy Systems for the
Internet of Things: A Tutorial
Mohamed Amine Ferrag and Lei Shu , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—This article presents research challenges and a tuto-
rial on performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and
privacy systems for the Internet of Things (IoT). We start by sum-
marizing the existing surveys that deal with blockchain security
for IoT networks. Then, we review the blockchain-based secu-
rity and privacy systems for seventeen types of IoT applications,
e.g., Industry 4.0, software-defined networking, edge computing,
Internet of Drones, Internet of Cloud, Internet of Energy, Internet
of Vehicles, etc. We also review various consensus algorithms
and provide a comparison with respect to the nine properties,
such as latency, throughput, computation, storage, and commu-
nication costs, scalability, attack model, advantage, disadvantage,
etc. Moreover, we present the security analysis techniques and
provide a classification into four categories, including Burrows,
Abadi, and Needham (BAN) logic, game theory, theory analy-
sis, and AVISPA tool. In addition, we analyze the performance
metrics, blockchain testbeds, and cryptography libraries used in
the performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems for the IoT networks. Based on the current survey,
we discuss the major steps to follow for building and evalu-
ating blockchain-based security and privacy systems. Finally,
we discuss and highlight open challenges and future research
opportunities.
Index Terms—Blockchain, experimentation environments,
Internet of Things (IoT), privacy, security, testbeds.
I. INTRODUCTION
TODAY, with the emergence of many low-cost and pow-
erful devices, such as sensors and RFIDs associated with
various communication media, the Internet of Things (IoT) has
gained tremendous popularity, which offers a high potential
for the development of not only different home automation
systems but also various industrial applications, such as con-
nected drones, connected health, smart farming, wearables,
among other areas. The IoT market is projected to increase
from over 15 billion devices in 2015 to more than 75 billion
Manuscript received November 2, 2020; revised February 16, 2021;
accepted May 4, 2021. Date of publication May 6, 2021; date of current
version December 7, 2021. This work was supported in part by the Research
Start-Up Fund for Talent Researcher of Nanjing Agricultural University under
Grant 77H0603, and in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China under Grant 62072248. (Corresponding author: Lei Shu.)
Mohamed Amine Ferrag is with the Department of Computer Science,
Guelma University, Gulema 24000, Algeria, and also with the NAU-
Lincoln Joint Research Center of Intelligent Engineering, Nanjing Agricultural
University, Nanjing 210031, China (e-mail: ferrag.mohamedamine@univ-
guelma.dz).
Lei Shu is with the College of Artificial Intelligence, Nanjing Agricultural
University, Nanjing 210031, China, and also with the School of Engineering,
University of Lincoln, Lincoln LN6 7TS, U.K. (e-mail: lei.shu@ieee.org).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3078072
in 2025. This projection indicates that on average, there will be
at least 25 personal IoT devices for every person on earth [1].
The large-scale and transverse nature of IoT systems, with
the different elements and components associated with the
implementation of such systems, has opened new security and
privacy challenges [2], [3].
Currently, the “blockchain” is one of the most appropri-
ate candidate technologies that can provide a secure and
distributed ecosystem for IoT networks. The security charac-
teristics that blockchain promises are unprecedented and truly
inspiring [4], [5]. The concept of a blockchain-based IoT has
attracted considerable research interest since decentralizing the
IoT using the blockchain technology offers the following five
potential advantages: 1) increases fault tolerance and elimi-
nates single points of failure; 2) allows implementing secure
software updates on IoT devices; 3) provides accountabil-
ity and traceability since IoT data stored on the blockchain
are immutable; 4) enhances the security by providing authen-
tication, access control, and confidentiality; and 5) allows
secure micro-transactions for IoT data [6]. Therefore, there
are four primary types of blockchains, namely 1) public
blockchain; 2) consortium blockchain; 3) private blockchain;
and 4) hybrid blockchain. The public blockchain enables any
person to join as miners, developers, users, or other members
of the community. Each transaction on a public blockchain is
fully transparent, which means that any person can view the
details of the transaction. The public blockchain is accompa-
nied with a token, which is usually developed to incentivize
and reward network participants [3]. The private blockchain
is a network that requires an invitation to join the service.
The transactions are private and the network is more cen-
tralized than the public blockchain. The private blockchains
are especially relevant for companies that want to collabo-
rate and share data. The consortium blockchain is a private
blockchain but governed by a group rather than a single entity.
The hybrid blockchain combines the characteristics of both
public and private blockchains, where members can decide
who can participate in the blockchain or which transactions
are made public.
In the literature, there are many surveys that covered differ-
ent aspects of blockchain-based security and privacy systems
for the IoT. As shown in Table I, we categorize the blockchain
surveys according to the following criteria.
1) IoT Application: It states if the survey has provided a
taxonomy for blockchain-based IoT applications.
2327-4662 c© 2021 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0632-3172
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6700-9347
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17237
TABLE I
RELATED SURVEYS ON BLOCKCHAIN FOR IOT NETWORKS
2) Consensus Algorithms: It indicates whether the sur-
vey presented consensus algorithms and provided a
comparative analysis.
3) Security Analysis Techniques: It states if the survey has
provided the security analysis techniques used in the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and
privacy systems for the IoT networks.
4) Cryptography Libraries: It indicates whether the survey
described cryptography libraries used in the performance
evaluation of blockchain-based security and privacy
systems for the IoT networks.
5) Performance Metrics: It indicates whether the survey
described performance metrics used in the performance
evaluation of blockchain-based security and privacy
systems for the IoT networks.
6) Testbeds and Experimentation Environments: It indicates
whether the survey considered testbeds and experimen-
tation environments used in the performance evaluation
of blockchain-based security and privacy systems for the
IoT networks.
Most of the surveys on blockchain-IoT applications out-
line the countermeasures required for security and privacy
without focusing on testbeds and experimentation environ-
ments. Some of them have limited their countermeasures
covered to 3.0 applications [20], Internet of energy manage-
ment [21], cyber–physical systems [22], industrial IoT [3],
software-defined networks (SDNs) [23], smart contracts for-
malization or [24]. Ferrag et al. [8] focused on security and
privacy countermeasures, threats models, blockchain-based
solutions for smart agriculture. Kolb et al. [7] presented a
centralized tutorial that explains the fundamental elements
of blockchains using Ethereum as a case study. Therefore,
there are recent studies that compare the consensus algo-
rithms for blockchain-based security and privacy systems [4],
[25]–[29]. Xiao et al. [4] reviewed the consensus algorithms
based on the five-component scheme, which consists of an
incentive mechanism, block finalization, information propaga-
tion, block validation, and block proposal. Ferdous et al. [25]
studied the consensus algorithms regarding four properties,
including performance, security, block and reward, and struc-
tural. Bodkhe et al. [26] analyzed the consensus algorithms
for cyber–physical systems with respect to scalability and
attacks, consensus finality, mining and consensus category,
energy consumption, communication model and complexity,
performance-related parameters, adversary tolerance model,
and blockchain type. Lao et al. [27] compared the consensus
algorithms based on eight properties, including throughput,
vulnerability, advantage, blockchain type, disadvantage, tol-
erated power of adversary, transaction finality, and system
scalability.
To the best of our knowledge, our survey is the first
that thoroughly covers consensus algorithms, security anal-
ysis techniques, cryptography libraries, performance metrics,
and testbeds and experimentation environments used in the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems for the IoT networks.
Our contributions in this work are as follows.
1) We review the blockchain-based security and privacy
systems for IoT applications.
2) We present the security analysis techniques and pro-
vide a classification into four categories, including BAN
logic, game theory, theory analysis, and AVISPA tool.
3) We present various consensus algorithms and provide a
comparison with respect to the following nine properties:
a) blockchain model; b) latency; c) throughput; d) com-
putation, storage, and communication costs; e) scala-
bility; f) attack model; g) advantage and disadvantage;
h) application; and i) focus of each consensus algorithm.
4) We analyze the performance metrics used in the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and
privacy systems for the IoT networks.
5) We provide the blockchain testbeds and cryptogra-
phy libraries used in the performance evaluation of
blockchain-based security and privacy systems.
6) We discuss the major steps to follow for building
and evaluating blockchain-based security and privacy
systems.
7) We discuss and highlight open challenges and future
research opportunities.
This tutorial article is organized into eight main sections,
as shown in Fig. 1. Section II presents the blockchain-
based security and privacy systems for seventeen types of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17238 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
Fig. 1. Organization of the tutorial.
IoT applications. In Section III, we analyze various con-
sensus algorithms and evaluation parameters. In Section IV,
we present the security analysis techniques and provide a
classification into four categories. In Section V, we provide
the performance evaluation techniques used in the performance
evaluation of blockchain-based security and privacy systems
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17239
Fig. 2. Blockchain is composed of a list of consecutively connected blocks.
for the IoT networks. Then, we discuss the lessons learned in
Section VI and highlight open challenges and future research
opportunities in Section VII. Finally, Section VIII presents
conclusions.
II. BLOCKCHAIN FOR IOT APPLICATIONS
The blockchain technology is used by the security and pri-
vacy systems for the IoT networks as a permanent, public,
transparent ledger system for recording all transactions of data.
This chain is a linear set of blocks, starting with a first block
considered valid by default, which is called a genesis block, as
presented in Fig. 2. The blocks are built and chained accord-
ing to precise rules using a consensus algorithm, which is
defined by the network. The validator prepares its block by
collecting the new transactions, verifying that they follow the
rules, and then including them in the block [13]. The data
recorded in the blocks are considered very hard to change and
become unforgeable after a period of time. A transaction is
considered confirmed when it is included in a validated block.
Each block has an identifier, which is a unique cryptographic
hash of the data stored in the block [25]. In addition, a block
consists of two parts: 1) a block header and 2) the trans-
actions, used to build a Merkle tree. Specifically, a Merkle
tree consists of hashing the transactions, then collecting the
resulting in pairs and hashing them, and continuing until a
single hash called the Merkle Root is obtained. Based on the
cryptographic hash chain, this structure is very effective in
proving that a complete chain of transactions has remained
unchanged [4].
As illustrated in Fig. 3, the blockchain technology can be
effectively applied in almost all domains of IoT. In this section,
we review the blockchain-based security and privacy systems
proposed for seventeen types of IoT applications.
A. Internet of Vehicles
The blockchain technology is used by authentication
schemes for the Internet of Vehicles as a distributed peer-to-
peer network to manage the ledger that stores vehicle-related
information. Noh et al. [30] developed a distributed data
authentication system using blockchain technology for the
Internet of Vehicles, which vehicles are capable of authenti-
cating and validating distributed broadcast data. The proposed
system can prevent multiple insider attacks, in which two
Fig. 3. Blockchain technology applied to seventeen types of IoT applications.
types of attacks are considered: 1) passive and 2) active.
The passive attacks include sniffing, which does not disrupt
or damage the target, while active attacks affect the target
by falsifying information. Tan and Chung [31] proposed a
secure authentication scheme with group key establishment,
which is based on the consortium blockchain for vehicular
networks. The proposed scheme develops the following three
security strategies: 1) certificateless authentication strategy;
2) group key distribution strategy; and 3) dynamic group key
updating strategy. The certificateless authentication strategy is
used to solve the problem of key escrow in identity-based
encryption for cloud-based VANETs with edge computing
infrastructure. The group key distribution strategy is used for
deploying consortium blockchain in decentralized vehicle-to-
vehicle networks, while the dynamic group key updating strat-
egy is used for dynamic updating using the Chinese remainder
theorem.
B. Internet of Drones
With the help of the blockchain-based solution, the Internet
of Drones overcomes the need for third-party systems to
maintain trust as well as ensure high security to the drone
communication network. The Internet of Drones has attracted
growing attention and is projected to be an important sup-
porting element of the future IoT thanks to its significant
benefits in terms of deployment flexibility, high flexibil-
ity of mobility and low cost. To broadcast and store the
group’s key messages in the Internet of Drones, Li et al. [32]
designed a private blockchain, which is constructed by the
ground control station. The drones are able to retrieve
lost group keys securely and rapidly using a basic mutual
healing protocol. To achieve privacy preservation in drone-
delivered services, Ferrag and Maglaras [33] designed an
intrusion detection system with a delivery framework, called
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17240 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
DeliveryCoin, which is based on bilinear groups and machine
learning approaches. A UAV-aided forwarding mechanism is
adopted for achieving a consensus inside, while the machine
learning approaches are used for detecting false transactions
between self-driving nodes as well as detecting self-driving
network attacks. Bera et al. [34] considered several drones
deployed in different flying zones that communicate with
each other, and the information is collected by the ground
station server. To enable secure communication between
the drones, but also between the drones and the ground
station server, the authors introduced a secure blockchain-
based access control scheme, in which the blocks are added
using the ripple protocol consensus algorithm. Islam and
Shin [35] integrated the mobile edge computing and proposed
a blockchain-based data acquisition process for the unmanned
aerial vehicles-assisted IoT. Specifically, mobile edge com-
puting is used for validates the data and the identity of the
sender.
C. Internet of Energy
The adoption of the blockchain framework for the Internet
of Energy enables the protection of confidentiality, privacy,
and integrity of electricity data. Sheikh et al. [36] designed
a secured energy trading scheme between electric vehicles
and the distribution network. For checking the blocks in the
blockchain network, a Byzantine consensus algorithm is used
for energy exchange between electric vehicles and the distri-
bution network. The electric vehicles in a parking area can be
involved in the process of exchanging energy with a distri-
bution network according to its storage capacity and charging
limits. For secure peer-to-peer (P2P) trading and decentralized
scheduling within the energy management systems in local
energy grids, Yang et al. [37] designed an automated demand
response scheme, named ADR, which can increase the P2P
trading security. To coordinate the consumption behaviors of
responsive executors, the ADR scheme adopts a price-sensitive
game-theoretic model and a smart contract mechanism. The
ADR framework can coordinate actions and balancing supply
and demand by taking into account the load transfer of plug-in
electric vehicles, vehicle-to-grid support, and energy storage
system. For privacy preserving in wide-area (multiarea) smart
grids, Kurt et al. [38] proposed a distributed dynamic state
estimation mechanism. To protect against attacks and data
manipulation, the proposed mechanism adopts the blockchain
technology. The blockchain operates on the peer-to-peer
network of local centers for detecting the measurement anoma-
lies as well as misbehaving. To deal with the exchange of
excess energy among neighboring nodes in the Internet of
Energy, Ferrag and Maglaras [39] designed a blockchain-based
scheme, named DeepCoin, which is based on bilinear pairing,
short signatures, and hash functions to achieve privacy preser-
vation. The DeepCoin scheme adopts the practical Byzantine
fault tolerance (PBFT) algorithm for build consensus inside
blockchain-based energy network. For detecting fraudulent
transactions and network attacks, the DeepCoin scheme uses
an intrusion detection system based on recurrent neural
networks.
D. Cloud Computing
The existing cloud manufacturing concept can be combined
with the blockchain technology, which the IoT devices can be
trusted without reliance on a trusted third party. Zhu et al. [40]
proposed to integrate cloud manufacturing with blockchain
technology in order to own both centralization and decen-
tralization features. There two types of data stored in the
blocks, namely smart contracts and transactions. For global
payment, the proposed system created the Cloud manufac-
turing cryptocurrency, which is based on two methods. One
is allocating the Cloud manufacturing cryptocurrency to the
initial miners by a genesis file, while the second is creating
the Cloud manufacturing cryptocurrency with block rewards
for miners. Wei et al. [41] proposed a blockchain data-based
cloud data integrity protection mechanism, which is based on
mobile agent technology. The proposed mechanism adopts a
distributed virtual machine agent model that is deployed to
the cloud. Specifically, the integrity framework based on the
blockchain is built by the virtual machine proxy model, and
the unique hash value for the file generated by the Merkel
hash tree is used to control the data exchange by the smart
contract, and the resulting data is delivered on time.
E. IoT Agricultural
The role of blockchain technology in IoT agriculture focuses
on three keys, namely supporting farmers in tracing food
origins, enable peer-to-peer agricultural transactions through
smart contracts, and guarantee agriculture data integrity [8].
Based on double chain architecture, Leng et al. [42] designed
a public blockchain of the agricultural supply chain system,
which can provide adaptive rent-seeking and matching mech-
anism for public service platform. Through elliptic curve
cryptography, the proposed system ensures the transparency
with security and privacy of transaction data. For the
traceability and the certification of extra virgin olive oil,
Arena et al. [43] proposed a blockchain-based application,
named BRUSCHETTA, which can trace the production from
the plantation to the shops. Therefore, production and sales
records are often falsified. Shih et al. [44] used the blockchain
to guarantee the authenticity of organic vegetables by propos-
ing a marketing environment using Ethereum. The proposed
scheme can increase organic vegetable sales and solve the
issue of ecological agricultural pollution. To prevent dis-
tributed denial-of-service attacks in smart agriculture, Wu and
Tsai [45] proposed an intelligent agriculture network security
system, which is based on private blockchains. The proposed
system applies the bilinear pairings technology to guarantees
privacy and integrity in information transmission.
F. IoT-Based Healthcare
Many researchers have tried to apply emerging blockchain
technology into the field of healthcare for providing the secu-
rity and privacy of healthcare data sharing. Wang et al. [46]
proposed a framework of parallel healthcare systems, named
PHSs, which is based on parallel execution approach, the artifi-
cial systems, and blockchain technology. The artificial systems
are proposed to represent and model the static and dynamic
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17241
characteristics of patients and doctors, while blockchain tech-
nology is used to facilitate the sharing of electronic health
records, records review and auditability of care. For trans-
parent and secure information sharing in structure health
monitoring, Jo et al. [47] introduced a blockchain-based
distributed network, which smart contracts are constructed
for autonomous decision making and control. The proposed
network adopts the Proof-of-Work (PoW) consensus mecha-
nism in combination with the SHA-256 hash function.
G. IoT-Based NFV/SDN
SDN separates the network hardware from the con-
trol mechanism in order to allow easy control and
management [48]. The SDN and network function virtual-
ization (NFV) can be coupled with blockchain technology
for IoT networks. Therefore, an SDN/NFV architecture for
blockchain-based IoT applications is based on four layers,
namely perception layer, data plane, virtualization and con-
trol plane, and blockchain layer. The perception layer consists
of collecting the data from the environment (i.e., things). The
data plane enables data transfer to and from the perception
layer through IoT gateways. The virtualization and control
plane is used to dynamically allocating resources to virtual-
ized controllers. The blockchain layer plays the role of storing
data, broadcast the mining and transaction information, and
managing a P2P network using a consensus algorithm. To
support the efficiency and security of IoT-based NFV/SDN,
Rawat [49] combine three technologies, including blockchain
technology, software-defined networking, and edge comput-
ing. The ultimate goal of this combination is to decrease trade
frictions and enhance transparency and trust between partic-
ipants/stakeholders, as well as to enable a more transparent
and dynamic exchange of spectrum and information technol-
ogy resources in the emerging wireless network. Therefore,
Chaudhary et al. [50] combined Blockchain with SDN for
intelligent transportation systems. Specifically, they proposed a
Blockchain-based secure energy trading scheme, named BEST,
which the SDN is used for transferring energy trading requests
from electrical vehicles to the master controller. The BEST
scheme uses blockchain to authenticating and validating par-
ticipating in electrical vehicles. The SDN architecture adopted
by the BEST scheme is composed of three planes, including
application, control, and data planes. This blockchain-based
SDN architecture provides availability, integrity, confidential-
ity, and availability to network infrastructure.
H. Edge/Fog Computing
The blockchain technology is applied for Edge/Fog
Computing-based IoT networks to achieving the data recover-
ability property. The edge artificial intelligence-enabled IoT is
addressed by Lin et al. [51], which they proposed a peer-to-
peer knowledge market scheme, which is shown in Fig. 4. The
proposed scheme is secure and can provide knowledge man-
agement and trading. Therefore, the proposed scheme uses
three news mechanisms, namely proof of trading, smart con-
tracts, and cryptographic currency knowledge coin. Based on
the primitive of blockchain, Huang et al. [52] designed a
Fig. 4. Edge/fog computing architecture for blockchain-based IoT applica-
tions.
fair three-party contract signing protocol for the decentralized
fog computing environment. The proposed protocol allows
members to contract equitably without the assistance of an
arbitrator. Moreover, to protect the privacy of contract content,
the proposed protocol adopts the threshold public-key encryp-
tion with verifiable encryption. For providing video streaming
with mobile edge computing, Liu et al. [53] presented a
blockchain-based mobile edge computing architecture, where
small base stations deploy their computational and communi-
cation resources. Based on the transactional information on the
blockchain, the components of the proposed architecture (i.e.,
users, base stations, and video providers) adapt their poli-
cies to allow a self-organized video broadcast and transcoding
service to run without a centralized controller.
I. Internet of Sensors
To provide decentralized and fine-grained authorization for
the Internet of Sensors, Zhang et al. [54] designed a collab-
orative access control scheme, named ABAC, which is based
on attributes. The ABAC scheme uses blockchain technol-
ogy to produce a numeric account for each device to store
the access attributes and policy that are used for authoriza-
tion. When trustworthy collaboration is needed, the ABAC
scheme adopts a controlled and verifiable collaboration mech-
anism, which can prevent unwanted collaboration. However,
there are other challenges in the Internet of Sensors, namely
data sharing and key-leakage. To solve these challenges,
Niu et al. [55] designed a blockchain-based key aggregation
searchable encryption scheme, named BAI-KASE, for achiev-
ing data sharing in the Internet of Sensors. The BAI-KASE
is proven secure under the decisional Diffie–Hellman assump-
tion and Goldreich–Leivin Theorem. The BAI-KASE adopts
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17242 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
Fig. 5. Several types of consensus algorithms for blockchain-based security and privacy systems.
a data-sharing system, which is based on private and pub-
lic blockchain with PoW consensus mechanism and PBFT
algorithm.
To provide reliable auditing of user’s access history in
the Internet of Sensors (i.e., Smart Homes), Lin et al. [56]
designed a blockchain-based secure mutual authentication
system, named HomeChain, that can be implemented in intel-
ligent home systems. Based on the elliptic curve integrated
encryption scheme (ECIES), the HomeChain system pro-
vide confidentiality of the transmitted message, including the
response data and the request transaction data. To enable
a group member to anonymously request remote access or
control, the HomeChain system adopts the group signatures.
III. CONSENSUS ALGORITHMS AND EVALUATION
PARAMETERS
Consensus algorithms are a critical part of each blockchain
IoT network since they are responsible for ensuring the
integrity and security of these distributed systems. Therefore,
the decentralized public IoT blockchains are implemented as
distributed systems and since they are not under the control
of a central authority, the distributed nodes are required to
agree on the validity of the transactions [57]. This is where
consensus algorithms are involved. Specifically, a consensus
algorithm ensures that protocol rules are followed and that all
transactions are reliably processed.
A. Consensus Algorithms
There are several types of consensus algorithms for
blockchain-based security and privacy systems [27], [28], as
presented in Fig. 5. Each consensus algorithm has advantages
and disadvantages when attempting to achieve a successful
balance between scalability, security, and functionality.
Fig. 6. PoW consensus algorithm, where miners competing to solve a com-
putationally complicated math puzzle in order to perform transactions on the
blockchain network and are rewarded afterward.
1) Proof of Work: The PoW algorithm was introduced
by Nakamoto [58]. It is designed first to minimize jamming
emails and then implemented by Bitcoin. The PoW algorithm
is used to confirm transactions and produce new blocks in the
blockchain-based security and privacy systems. Specifically,
there are IoT nodes, called miners, competing to solve a
computationally complicated math puzzle in order to perform
transactions on the blockchain network and are rewarded after-
ward, as presented in Fig. 6. The blockchain-based security
and privacy systems that use PoW as a consensus algorithm
become resistant to falsification due to the high cost of calcu-
lation. Nevertheless, a blockchain system running PoW may
also be attacked in the mining operation in which an attacker
can gain more profit by launching mining and corruption
attacks [27].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17243
Fig. 7. PoS consensus algorithm, where validators can produce the next
block based on their stake.
2) Byzantine Fault Tolerant: This is a well-known issue in
distributed computing which is typically solved with Byzantine
generals. The issue is that a group of Byzantine generals with
different parts of the Byzantine forces have circled a city. They
should agree in agreement whether to launch an attack or not.
When certain generals launch an attack alone, it will end in
tragedy for their siege. The generals are mostly split by dis-
tance and are required to transmit some messages in order
to communicate. The blockchain-based security and privacy
systems that use Byzantine fault tolerant (BFT) as a consen-
sus algorithm become fast and scalable but it used usually for
private and permissioned IoT networks [59].
3) Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT): It is one
solution to the Byzantine generals problem, proposed by
Castro et al. [60], which consists of a minimum of 3f +1 nodes
in order to tolerate f defective nodes. The blockchain-based
security and privacy systems that use PBFT as a consensus
algorithm will have high transaction throughput, but they are
centralized and permissioned.
4) Federated Byzantine Agreement: It is another solution to
the Byzantine generals problem, where each Byzantine gen-
eral is responsible for their own blockchain. The federated
Byzantine agreement (FBA) consensus is used by Stellar and
Ripple [61] which they use quorum slices to reach consen-
sus. The blockchain-based security and privacy systems that
use FBA as a consensus algorithm will have low transaction
costs, network scalability, and high throughput, but there are
trust requirements that should to archives.
5) Delegated Byzantine Fault Tolerance: This consensus
was introduced by NEO, which provides a fault tolerance of
f = [(n − 1) /3] for blockchain-based security and privacy
system composed of n nodes. The delegated Byzantine fault
tolerance (DBFT) consensus is similar to delegated Proof of
Stake (PoS) that allows for large scale collaboration in consen-
sus through proxy voting. The blockchain-based security and
privacy systems that use DBFT as a consensus algorithm will
have network scalability, high throughput, and high transaction
costs.
6) Proof of Stake: To address the issues inherent in
PoW, the PoS consensus was developed as an alternative.
Specifically, the PoS consensus is based on a completely dif-
ferent approach than PoW and requires no special computing
power [62]. Rather than use mining, there should be a certain
stake (coins) in the system. More this amount is important,
more chances a node will be chosen to update the register
of a blockchain, as presented in Fig. 7. The blockchain-based
security and privacy systems that use PoS as a consensus algo-
rithm will have the advantage that no large quantities of energy
Fig. 8. Difference between blockchain and tangle ledgers.
are required to secure a blockchain, but it is vulnerable to the
nothing-at-stake problem.
7) Delegated Proof of Stake: This consensus aims to
address the weaknesses of PoS and PoW by proposing a hybrid
model. The Delegated PoS (DPoS) consensus operates on the
same basic principle as PoS. The IoT nodes in charge of forg-
ing blocks must be elected by the community members. The
election system ensures that the blockchain is not controlled by
a minority of nodes, as can be the case of a miner with a large
amount of computing power or a PoS forger with a very large
amount of tokens [63]. The blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems that use DPoS as a consensus algorithm will have
the advantage to define a fully participative organization.
8) Directed Acyclic Graph: Unlike the linear structure that
is basically adopted by any blockchain system, the directed
acyclic graph (DAG) consensus applies an alternative approach
to adding the blocks based on parallelism. Specifically, the
blocks/transactions are not concatenated in a chained list
but in a hierarchy tree [64], as shown in Fig. 8. There are
some popular projects which use DAG consensus, includ-
ing RaiBlocks/Nano, Byteball, HashGraph, and Iota. The
blockchain-based security and privacy systems that use Proof
of Activity (PoAc) as a consensus algorithm will have high
scalability with high communication costs.
9) Other Consensus Algorithms: More consensus algo-
rithms are available which can be adapted by blockchain-based
security and privacy systems for IoT networks. The follow-
ing consensus algorithms are cited: proof of reputation, proof
of history, PoS velocity, proof of importance, proof of burn,
proof of identity, proof of time, proof of capacity, Proof of
Elapsed Time (PoET), Proof of Authority (PoA), Proof of
Weight (PoWeight), and PoAc.
B. Evaluation Parameters
In the literature, there are recent studies that compare
the consensus algorithms for blockchain-based security and
privacy systems [4], [25]–[29]. Therefore, in this tutorial,
we compare the consensus algorithms with respect to the
following nine properties.
1) Blockchain Model: The blockchain-based security and
privacy systems for the IoT networks can be divided
into two different categories, namely permissioned and
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17244 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
TABLE II
COMPARISON BETWEEN CONSENSUS ALGORITHMS USED IN THE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY
AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS FOR THE IOT NETWORKS
permissionless. Permissioned blockchains require access
to be allowed to be part of the network. There are
three types of blockchain permissioned ledger technolo-
gies, including public blockchains, federated/consortium
blockchains, and private blockchain. However, the per-
missionless blockchains require no authorization to
access and communicate with, which means that anyone
can join the network.
2) Latency: This metric indicates the time taken to create
the next block of transactions in the blockchain network.
3) Throughput: This indicates two metrics, namely a) read
throughput and b) transaction throughput. The read
throughput is a metric of the total number of reading
transactions performed within a defined period of time.
The transaction throughput is the ratio of valid transac-
tions that are initiated by specific configurations of the
blockchain within a defined period of time.
4) Computation, Storage, and Communication Costs: The
blockchain-based security and privacy systems for the
IoT networks can be categorized based on performance
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17245
metrics, such as computation cost, storage cost, and
communication cost.
5) Scalability: This metric indicates two main scalability
problems, namely a) the time required to insert a trans-
action in the block and b) the time required to reach a
consensus.
6) Attack Model: This metric shows the vulnerability of
the blockchain-based security and privacy systems for
the IoT networks in case of failures. In this tutorial,
we use the threat models presented in the study [13].
Specifically, the threat models against blockchain
networks are categorized into five main categories,
namely service-based attacks, reputation-based attacks,
identity-based attacks, manipulation-based attacks. The
service-based attacks include collusion attack, double-
spending attack, refusal to sign attack, and DDoS/DoS
attack. The reputation-based attacks include whitewash-
ing and hiding blocks attack. The cryptanalytic attacks
include quantum attacks. The identity-based attacks
include sybil attack, impersonation attack, replay attack,
and key attack. The manipulation-based attacks include
man-in-the-middle attack, modification attack, overlay
attack, tampering attack, and false data injection attack.
7) (+) Pros (−) Cons: This metric indicates the important
advantage and disadvantages of each consensus algo-
rithm by considering the security level and performance-
related parameters.
8) Application: This presents the available projects that use
each consensus algorithm.
9) Focus of the Consensus Algorithm: This indicates the
basic idea of each consensus algorithm.
Table II presents the comparison between consensus algo-
rithms used in the performance evaluation of blockchain-based
security and privacy systems for the IoT networks. Regarding
the scalability and high transaction time cost, the PoS, DAG,
FBA, PoET, DPoS, and DBFT provide high performance. The
PoW, FBA, PoC, PoAc provide high latency with security lev-
els. Therefore, from the table, we can see that each consensus
algorithm has several different levels of advantages and dis-
advantages, which means that they are suitable for different
situations.
IV. SECURITY ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES
To evaluate and analyze the security of blockchain-based
systems for the IoT networks, security researchers use the fol-
lowing formal security techniques: BAN logic, Game theory,
Theory analysis, ProVerif tool, and AVISPA tool, as presented
in Table III.
A. Formal Verification Method
1) Burrows, Abadi, and Needham Logic [98]: It is a
widely used analysis model for identity authentication proto-
cols. Noh et al. [30] verified the correctness of their proposed
system formally, which they use BAN logic based on the fol-
lowing four steps: 1) idealization; 2) assumptions; 3) goals;
and 4) verification. The idealization concerns the form of the
TABLE III
SECURITY ANALYSIS TECHNIQUES USED IN THE PERFORMANCE
EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY
SYSTEMS FOR THE IOT NETWORKS
data. The assumptions concern the relationship between enti-
ties and keys. The goals concerns traceability, nonrepudiation,
strong privacy preservation, and message integrity. The verifi-
cation concerns the prove of the hypotheses with the rules of
the BAN logic. Cheng et al. [67] used BAN Logic to analyze
the correctness of the medical data sharing scheme for medical
cyber–physical systems.
2) Game Theory: Game theory is a natural approach to
addressing competition and decentralized decision-making in
the IoT. Tan and Chung [31] used the game theory for ana-
lyzing the security theorems of their scheme in terms of the
unforgeability against adaptive chosen message attack, resis-
tance to replay attack during authentication phase, preventing
unauthorized tracking to specified vehicles, and provide cer-
tificateless authentication property. These terms are defined
through the games with random oracles by operating the
queries from the adversary and the challenger. Therefore,
Cheng et al. [81] analyzed the incentive mechanism used
in their semicentralized scheme with a game theory model.
Specifically, they define two-time cost, including travel time
as ω(ω > μ > 0 and interaction time as μ(μ > 0).
1) Stackelberg game is a nonsymmetrical game, in which a
player named leader has a preferred position and decides
first, when the remaining players—the followers—
follow his actions. Qiu et al. [75] used a game-theoretic
approach, called Stackelberg, to perform the spectrum
trading and operations among the buyer and seller.
Specifically, a Stackelberg game is a strategic game
that involves a leader and multiple trackers in com-
petition with each other over some resources. In the
proposed scheme, the authors formulate the mobile
network operator as the leader and the unmanned
aerial vehicle operators as the trackers. Li et al. [76]
used a Stackelberg game for modeling the energy
allocation between microgrids and miners in the
Internet of Energy. The microgrid is considered as a
game leader that offers a nonuniform pricing strategy
for different miners. Wilczyński and Kołodziej [68]
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17246 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
TABLE IV
PERFORMANCE METRICS AND CRYPTOGRAPHY TECHNOLOGIES USED IN THE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF
BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS FOR THE IOT NETWORKS
formally modeled schedule confirmation/approval using
the Stackelberg game model for blockchain-based cloud
computing. In the blockchain-based cloud model, the
leader is the node, which initiates a transaction, and
the follower is the next node in the sequence of nodes
in the blockchain network. Liu et al. [53] formulated
the video transcoding and delivery problem as a three-
stage Stackelberg game for blockchain-based mobile
edge computing.
2) Noncooperative game: Yang et al. [37] modeled a non-
cooperative game to achieve decentralized scheduling
of multiple responsive executors in the energy local
networks, which is based on three components, namely
a) players; b) strategy space; and c) utility function. The
players include all the users of plug-in electric vehicles
and battery energy storage. The strategic space includes
a collection of achievable patterns of consumption that
reduce the utility function of the players, while the
utility function includes the measurement of the play-
ers’ cost in the game. In order to minimize the cost
of each mobile equipment for mobile edge computing,
Zhang et al. [73] modeled the joint coin-loaning and
computation-offloading issue as a noncooperative game,
in which the mobile equipments can perform distributed
decision making. Lin et al. [51] proposed an optimal
knowledge pricing strategy based on a noncooperative
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17247
game to study the quality knowledge related knowledge
sellers for edge artificial intelligence-enabled IoT.
3) Differential game is a game that involves N players,
each one solving an optimal control question, where the
other players also solving their optimal control ques-
tions. These questions are related since the controls
selected by each player affect the evolution of the state
variables [99]. Wang et al. [74] uses the differential
game to model the introduction of blockchain technol-
ogy in traditional fog computing.
3) Theory Analysis: Lai et al. [69] used theory analysis
to prove that their scheme can achieve a series of design
objectives, namely 1) provide effective and fair incentives;
2) secure and privacy preserving; and 3) ensure the reliabil-
ity of map update. Luo et al. [70] uses theory analysis to
prove that their scheme can preserve vehicles’ location pri-
vacy and resilience to various trust model attacks (such as
Sybil attack, on–off attack, whitewashing attack, and bad-
mouthing attack). Yao et al. [71] analyzed the security features
of the IDaaSoVCC scheme based on two assumptions, namely
discrete logarithm assumption and decisional bilinear Diffie–
Hellman assumption, which can satisfy identity information
privacy, confidentiality, and forward secrecy. In the random
oracle model, Zhang et al. [72] proved that the linkable
group signature can achieve likability, full traceability, and
full anonymity for IoT-based cryptocurrency.
4) AVISPA Tool: Reference [100] is used as a formal secu-
rity verification tool for authentication schemes that used a
language called the high-level protocol specification language
(HLPSL). Bera et al. [34] adopted the AVISPA tool to prove
the security of their scheme with the implementation of three
basic roles, namely the role for the drone, the role for the
ground station server, and the role for the cloud server.
B. Security Requirements
For developing a blockchain-based security and privacy
system for the IoTs networks, the following security require-
ments are fundamental to be achieved.
1) Privacy: Consists to prevent the revelation of person-
ally identifiable information based on data containing
private and sensitive information (e.g., medical images
in medical IoT systems) [30], [87], [92], [101], [102].
2) Integrity: The IoT data that is generated and transmit-
ted over the IoT network should not be monitored and
altered during communication [69]–[71], [79], [81].
3) Authentication: Each IoT device that participates in
transmitting the IoT data should be authenticated before
it is authorized to join the blockchain-based security and
privacy system [69]–[71], [82].
4) Nonrepudiation: This constitutes irrefutable proof of the
validity and origin of all data transmitted, where an IoT
device cannot refuse any participation in the IoT data
reporting [30], [79], [81].
5) Traceability: The blockchain-based security and privacy
system should be able to provide identity privacy preser-
vation conditionally in the IoT network. The tracing
authority is able to trace and reveal the real identity of
malicious IoT devices through its database [72], [75],
[81], [82].
6) Identity Privacy: Consists to ensure that the malicious
IoT devices cannot learn the identity information
from the proof during the data integrity checking
process [31], [70], [71], [82].
7) Location Privacy: The blockchain-based security and
privacy system should be able to preserve devices’
location privacy during the anonymous communication
process [70].
8) Scalability: The blockchain-based security and privacy
system should be able to adapt to rapid growth in terms
of both the number of participants and the volume of
IoT data shared.
9) Unforgeability: Guarantees that malicious devices can-
not even produce a new signature for an already signed
message in the IoT network [103].
10) Anonymity: The blockchain-based security and privacy
system should be able to guarantee the anonymity of
users in the IoT network. In other words, the adversary
cannot obtain the real identity of the user by analyzing
the transactions [56], [81].
11) Trust Management: It depends on the specific use
cases where trust management is to be applied.
Kochovski et al. [104] presented several relevant trust-
related attributes in a blockchain-based fog computing
platform, such as availability, credibility, and privacy.
12) Access Control: This constitutes to regulates the
IoT devices that can connect or use resources in
an IoT environment. The blockchain-based secu-
rity and privacy system should be able to per-
form identification authentication and authorization of
users [34], [54], [86], [105], [106].
13) Data Reliability: The blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy system should be capable of protecting IoT data
from suppression or falsification by possible attacks. In
addition, the system should be able to store replicated
data to ensure reliability in the case of a single-point
fault.
14) Perfect Forward Secrecy: For the security of the
previously transmitted data, the blockchain-based
security and privacy system should ensure that session
keys cannot be compromised if the server’s private key
is compromised [56].
15) Confidentiality: Only the IoT devices involved in
the blockchain-based security and privacy system
are allowed to know the content of the smart
contract [52], [75], [88].
16) Data Auditability: The smart contracts that are saved in
the blockchain-based security and privacy system should
be securely kept and easily verifiable. Although an IoT
device in the blockchain network can be compromised,
the malicious IoT device should not be able to modify
and upload any smart contract [79], [107].
17) Unlinkability: The blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy system should be able to ensure that the various
operations of the particular user should not be linked
together [103].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17248 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
Fig. 9. Classification of performance evaluation techniques in the performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and privacy systems for
the IoT networks.
V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION TECHNIQUES
Fig. 9 presents the classification of performance evaluation
techniques in the performance evaluation of blockchain-based
security and privacy systems for the IoT networks.
A. Performance Metrics
Table IV presents the performance metrics and cryptog-
raphy technologies used in the performance evaluation of
blockchain-based security and privacy systems for the IoT
networks.
1) Consensus Delay (Latency): Consensus delay
(latency) is defined as the time taken for the transac-
tion to be approved and published. Arena et al. [43] used
this metric for evaluating the performance evaluation of
BRUSCHETTA application, which is defined as the delay
between generating a transaction and its publication on
the blockchain. Noh et al. [30] used consensus delay as
a performance metric for evaluating the processing time
of the consensus algorithm in a blockchain-based system
for the Internet of Vehicles. The consensus delay is used
also for comparing the overhead analysis with two conven-
tional algorithms, such as hotstuff consensus and loof-fault
tolerance. Ferrag and Maglaras [33] analyzed latency of
blockchain consensus of the proposed DeliveryCoin and
the Prime-based DeliveryCoin under a number of UAVs,
probabilities of malicious UAV nodes, and velocities of
UAV nodes. Zhou et al. [112] used the consensus latency
as a performance metric for evaluating the performance of
a blockchain-based personal healthcare information system,
which is composed of three parts: 1) the time to generate
consensus identities; 2) the time for consensus messages to
propagate; and 3) the time to count consensus votes.
2) Communication Cost: Tan and Chung [31] analyzed the
communication cost of the proposed authentication scheme,
which they calculate the required communication rounds
for VANET authentication in RSU side. The communica-
tion cost includes the system parameter set, authentication
request, and acknowledgment message. The communication
cost of the proposed authentication scheme demonstrating
that fewer communication rounds are required comparing
with PATF [113] and EPFA [114]. Ali et al. [82] analyzed
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17249
TABLE V
CRYPTOGRAPHY LIBRARIES USED IN THE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY
AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS FOR THE IOT NETWORKS
the communication costs of CL-PKS scheme by considering
the size of the parameters, such as certificateless-signature
of the vehicle, current time-stamp, public key, and pseu-
doidentity. Eltayieb et al. [77] analyzed the communica-
tion cost of the blockchain-based attribute-based signcryption
scheme for the cloud environment, which includes the size
of the signing key, decryption key, and ciphertext. Therefore,
Chaudhary et al. [50] analyzed the communication cost of a
blockchain-based secure energy trading scheme for IoT-based
NFV/SDN, which includes the size of identity key and hash
values for an electric vehicle, transaction server, and miner
node.
3) Computation Cost (ms): Tan and Chung [31] analyzed
the computation cost of the proposed authentication scheme,
which they calculate the point multiplication, the pairing
operation, and the employed secure hash functions in the
RSU and vehicle side. The approximate execution time com-
pared PATF [113] and EPFA [114] shows less computation
overhead for resource-limited vehicles. Lai et al. [69] cal-
culates the time complexity of running their scheme which
is equal to O(nlogn). Luo et al. [70] focused on the com-
putational complexity of the vehicle (i.e., requester vehicle,
cooperative vehicle without response, and cooperative vehi-
cle providing assistance), in which the construction process
involves signature O(Sig) , verification O(Sig′), encryption
O(Enc), and decryption O(Enc′). Ali et al. [82] analyzed
the computation cost of CL-PKS scheme in the signing of
messages and in the verification of the corresponding sig-
nature, which the results show approximately 7.6361 ms.
Chaudhary et al. [50] analyzed the computation time of a
blockchain-based secure energy trading scheme for IoT-based
NFV/SDN, which is computed on the basis of the opera-
tions in the blockchain, such as SHA-1 and the addition
operation.
4) Storage Overhead (Bits): Tan and Chung [31] used stor-
age cost as a performance metric for evaluating the storage
overhead of RSU and individual vehicles during the authen-
tication phase. The storage cost consists of the length of
the identity, the elements in a cyclic additive group, and
the delivered session key. Compared to PATF [113] and
EPFA [114], Tan and Chung’s scheme shows less storage over-
head. Wei et al. [41] studied the storage cost of a blockchain
data-based cloud data integrity protection mechanism, which
is the sum of the verification tree storage costs.
5) Blockchain Storage Size: Hîrţan et al. [87] analysis
the blockchain storage size by assuming an range of 0 to
1 000 000 blocks. The results show that for a quantity of
1 000 000 blocks, a 564-MB storage space is requested.
Zhang et al. [54] computed the storage overhead for the
initial settings file and the session and attributes, which the
results show that it takes about 1104 bytes to store session
keys where there are 10 requests.
6) Blockchain Update Time Overhead (ms): Li et al. [32]
analyzed the Blockchain update time overhead in the Internet
of Vehicles, in which the results show that the block update
time is increased if the sliding window is too small. Note
that the UAV nodes utilize a sliding window to store recently
updated blocks.
7) Research Questions-Based Metrics: Chen et al. [88]
studied the performance evaluation of their scheme by defin-
ing the following six research questions: 1) Does the proposed
scheme scale well for blockchain-based data trading? 2) Does
the proposed scheme perform well in different data transmis-
sion losses? 3) How much can the proposed scheme follow
the law of the market? 4) How can the proposed scheme
encourage buyers and sellers to trade data? 5) How much
benefit can the brokers gain in the proposed scheme? and
6) How can the proposed social welfare function converge?.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17250 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
The experimental results under 100 independent trials show
that the proposed scheme can perform in different data trans-
mission loss, encourage the buyers and sellers to participate in
data trading as well as achieving the maximum social welfare.
8) Impact of Blockchain Consensus Rate: The charge rate
of PoW in euro/kWh is evaluated by Dang et al. [89], which is
an significant and important by-product of blockchain technol-
ogy. The results show that the cost of PoW is directly related
to the amount of electricity purchased from the day-ahead,
adjustment and balancing markets.
9) Average Throughput (Requests Per Second):
Danish et al. [90] used the achieved throughput at the
join server connected to the blockchain network as a
performance metric in the conducted experiments. This
performance metric is featured as a function of the number
of join request messages per customer, for a different number
of concurrent customers.
10) Scalability of Blockchain Deployment Service: Consist
to measure the deployment time of blockchain with various
numbers of nodes. Lu et al. [91] evaluated the scalability
of blockchain deployment service by setting the blockchain
type as Ethereum and filling in the nodes’ IP addresses
for deployment. The good scalability is achieved when
the deployment time increases in an approximately linear
manner.
11) Transaction Generation Time (ms): Consist to measure
the time of generating a transaction in the blockchain-based
system. Shen et al. [92] used the transaction generation
time as a performance metric to evaluate the performance
of a blockchain-based system for medical image retrieval.
Specifically, the transaction structure consisting of three parts,
including time information, retrieval information, and transac-
tion information.
To ease the decision-making process on whether
performance metrics are appropriate to evaluate the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and
privacy systems for the IoT networks, we provide a flow
chart in Fig. 10.
B. Blockchain Data Sets
The blockchain data sets used in the performance eval-
uation of blockchain-based security and privacy systems
for the IoT networks are based on the search engines of
the crypto space, named Blockchain explorers. Specifically,
they are similar to an Internet search engine, which can
be used to view wallet details, blockchain transactions,
blocks, etc.
1) Blockchain Explorer [93]: Blockchain explorer enables
users to tag Bitcoin addresses with tags indicating the
known Bitcoin address identities. The Blockchain explorer
can be used to analyze Ethereum or Bitcoin Cash. Chang
and Svetinovic [115] uses Blockchain explorer to identi-
fies 2509 Bitcoin addresses which belong to 515 entities.
Wang et al. [116] uses Bitcoin blockchain to collect trans-
actions from January 3, 2009 (the genesis block) to June 30,
2017 (block 473, 592), which they observe that about 0.48%
of transactions still involve the vulnerability “ECDSA weak
randomness” and that 1331 private keys are affected.
2) Blockseer [94]: Blockseer offers the same functionality
with Blockchain explorer and displays the connections among
addresses and clusters addresses sharing the same label.
3) Etherchain [95]: Etherchain is an Ethereum Blockchain
Explorer contains every ether transaction made prior to the
present date, which can be extracted for the price prediction
experiment. Every element of a record contain a timestamp,
beneficiary incentive in Ripple (XRP), sender, and exchange
id. Poongodi et al. [117] used Etherchain for evaluating the
price prediction of the Ethereum blockchain cryptocurrency.
C. Cryptography Library
Table V presents cryptography libraries used in the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems for the IoT networks.
1) Elliptic Curve Library: Cheng et al. [81] used the elliptic
curve library to evaluate the performance of semi-
centralized traffic signal control mode with attribute-
based blockchain. The following libraries are used
on Java Runtime Environment 1.8 to construct bilin-
ear pairs : libbswabe-0.9, ibrary bcprov-jdk15on-158,
jpbc-plaf-1.2.1, jpbc-api-1.2.1, and commons-codec1.7.
To encrypt/decrypt and sign/verify all messages gen-
erated, Luo et al. [70] uses the following two types
of elliptic curves cryptography: a) ECC-secp256k1 and
b) ECDSA-secp256k1, which are implemented in JAVA
language.
2) MIRACL library [83] is multiprecision integer and ratio-
nal arithmetic cryptographic library, which is used for
elliptic curve cryptography. The MIRACL library is used
by Ali et al. [82] for computing the execution time of the
cryptographic operation underlying pairing-based cryp-
tography (PBC). Niu et al. [55] used the Miracl library to
implement cryptographic operations in order to evaluate
the performance of blockchain-based key aggregation
searchable encryption. Zhang et al. [72] used MIRACL
for evaluating the performance of linkable group sig-
nature in IoT-based cryptocurrency. Li et al. [85] used
MIRACL library to analyze the computational cost of
the traceability for a privacy and regulation scheme in
blockchain-based cryptocurrencies.
3) Pairing-Based Cryptography Library [78] is used by
Eltayieb et al. [77] for evaluating the characteristics of
the computational complexity of the concept of attribute-
based signcryption with blockchain. The PBC is a free
C library which executes the fundamental mathematical
processes involved in pairing-based encryption systems.
4) Crypto++ Library [80] is a free C++ class library of
cryptographic schemes. The library contains many algo-
rithms, such as authenticated encryption schemes (e.g.,
ChaCha20Poly1305 and XChaCha20Poly1305), high-
speed stream ciphers [e.g., Panama, Rabbit (128/256)],
message authentication codes (e.g., HMAC), hash func-
tions (e.g., SHA-1 and SHA-2), and elliptic curve
cryptography (e.g., ECDSA), etc. Nkenyereye et al. [79]
uses Crypto++ library to evaluate the characteristics of
computation and communication overhead of a secure
and blockchain-based scheme.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17251
Fig. 10. Flowchart to determine whether performance metrics are appropriate to evaluate the performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and privacy
systems.
D. Blockchain Testbeds
Table VI presents the blockchain testbeds used in the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems for the IoT networks.
1) Private Ethereum Network: Ethereum is the most
used development platform in the performance evaluation of
blockchain-based security and privacy systems for the IoT
networks.
1) Ganache [118] is a private Ethereum blockchain, which
can be used to implement smart contracts, develop pro-
grams and run scripts and tests. The testbed is available
both as a desktop application and as a command-line
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17252 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
TABLE VI
TESTBEDS USED IN THE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS FOR THE IOT NETWORKS
tool. The Ganache testbed is used by Ma et al. [109]
as a blockchain testing platform to evaluate the costs of
smart contracts and for running data trade.
2) Ethereum Geth [96] is a decentralized framework that
manages smart contracts via the implementation of the
Ethereum protocol. Danish et al. [90] uses a geth
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17253
Ethereum client, which is a Go language implementation
of the Ethereum protocol in order to deploy the smart
contract and run the private blockchain network. The
Ethereum Geth is used by Gai et al. [107] for evaluat-
ing the time cost for packing up data in the blockchain
system. To evaluate the scalability of blockchain deploy-
ment service, Lu et al. [91] deployed the uBaaS
platform on an Alibaba Cloud4 virtual machine with
Ethereum 1.5.9-stable and PoW as a consensus algo-
rithm. Zhang et al. [73] deployed smart contracts in
the Ethereum environment in order to demonstrate the
performance of the smart contracts on the blockchain
for mobile edge computing, which the results show
that the financial cost of the implementation of smart
contracts on the Ethereum network is relatively low.
Shen et al. [92] used Ethereum as a proof-of-concept
platform and use Geth as the Ethereum client to eval-
uate the performance of a blockchain-based system for
medical image retrieval.
3) NEthereum [132] integrate Ethereum blockchain into
.NET applications. Kaynak et al. [131] used the
NEthereum library in the Ethereum network to exe-
cute transactions using the C# language with dotnet core
framework.
4) Rinkeby Ethereum testnet [134] is test network for devel-
opers to develop and to do testing for Ethereum, which is
based on a PoA consensus. Kochovski et al. [104] used
Rinkeby Ethereum testnet to evaluate the performance of
the blockchain-based trust management system for fog
computing. Note that there are other test networks for
Ethereum, namely Kovan, Ropsten, and Görli.
5) Truffle [137] is a development and test environment with
an asset pipeline for Ethereum, which provides network
management for deploying to several public and private
networks. Huang et al. [52] used Truffle [137] to realize
the smart contract functionality for the decentralized fog
computing environment.
6) Remix—Ethereum IDE [139] is a browser-based com-
piler and IDE that allows users to debug transactions and
build Ethereum contracts using the Solidity language.
Shih et al. [44] uses Remix—Ethereum IDE to test-
ing the smart contract code of Ethereum for the organic
production and trading of vegetables with blockchain.
7) Ethereum Mist Browser is a Web application layer
that allows visualizing Web-based user interfaces
for all types of Ethereum decentralized applications.
Jo et al. [47] used Mist Browser and Go-Ethereum to
simulate and evaluate the feasibility and performance
of a blockchain-based distributed network for IoT-based
healthcare.
8) Solidity [126] is an object oriented, high-level lan-
guage for implementing smart contracts for Ethereum.
Kadadha et al. [125] used Solidity with Web3j [142] to
create and compile the smart contracts constituting the
blockchain-based crowdsensing framework.
2) Experimental Environment:
1) MATLAB environment [119] is used by Liu and
Zhang [110] for evaluating the encryption speed of
ECC in the blockchain network. Specifically, 100 stor-
age nodes are set up with the limited capacity of each
node is 3 TB, and the information and storage chan-
nel is fixed at 1000 Mbit/s. Lai et al. [69] analyzed
the impact of reputation values on data credibility for
Internet of Vehicles using MATLAB simulation, which
the value of services of the vehicle users and the unit cost
of vehicle users are chosen uniformly at random. Islam
and Shin [35] performed a simulation using MATLAB
for estimating the effects of a Blockchain-based secure
data acquisition scheme with the use of a mobile edge
computing server. Sharma et al. [133] analyzed the
neural-blockchain-based scheme using the numerically
defined system model in MATLAB in order to evaluate
the reliability through the area spectral efficiency, prob-
ability of connectivity, epoch, flyby time, and packet
survivability. Dang et al. [89] used the platform of
MATLAB with the help of YALMIP toolbox in order to
study the impact of PoW charge rate on the total cost.
Wang et al. [74] used MATLAB R2018b simulation soft-
ware to simulate the optimal resource contribution of the
fog node.
2) IEEE 33 Bus System: This system is used by
Sheikh et al. [36] to evaluate secured energy trad-
ing based on Byzantine-based blockchain consensus.
The IEEE 33 bus system consists of 33-nodes and 32
branches. The evaluation for highlighting the impact of
blockchain is carried out in two parts, namely a) secur-
ing different nodes of the system and b) Securing energy
and information data exchange.
3) IEEE-14 Bus Power System: This system is used by
Kurt et al. [38] for evaluating the false data injec-
tion attacks against the sensor measurements under a
distributed dynamic state estimation in the Internet of
Energy.
4) PROMELA [143] is a specification language for asyn-
chronous systems, which is based on three building
blocks, namely process, data object, and message chan-
nels. Ali et al. [106] evaluated a blockchain-based
decentralized architecture in simple PROMELA inter-
preter (SPIN) model checker. Specifically, the model
consists of one “Blockchain” process with “idle,” “del-
egation,” “activation” and “on” states.
5) Field Programmable Gate Array refers to an inte-
grated circuit consisting of an array of programmable
cells, which is renowned for its faster-processing
speed, high flexibility, and low resource consumption.
Yazdinejad et al. [124] used field programmable gate
array (FPGA) for the implementation of blockchain-
enabled packet parser architecture in order to evaluate
in terms of resource utilization and power consumption.
3) Hyperledger Group: Hyperledger [97] is an open-
source community, hosted by the Linux Foundation, which
focuses on developing a suite of stable frameworks, tools, and
libraries for the deployment of blockchains at the enterprise
level. Moreover, Hyperledger enables a variety of enter-
prise blockchain technologies, including intelligent contract
engines, client libraries, utility libraries, distributed ledger
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17254 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
frameworks, GUIs, and sample applications. Luo et al. [70]
employes Hyperledger to realize the interaction between the
consortium blockchain data and the application layer. To
design smart contract algorithms, Li et al. [32] used the
Java SDK “fabric-sdk-java” with Hyperleader’s ChainCode
technology.
1) Distributed Ledgers: There are six distributed
ledger frameworks, namely Hyperledger Besu [144],
Hyperledger Burrow [145], Hyperledger Fabric [146],
Hyperledger Indy [147], Hyperledger Iroha [148],
and Hyperledger Sawtooth [149]. The Hyperledger
Besu is used in both public and private permissioned
network, which is designed to be enterprise-friendly
with including several consensus algorithms, such as
PoW, and PoA. The Hyperledger Burrow can be used
for private/consortium networks, which is based on
smart contracts and BFT consensus via the Tendermint
algorithm. For developing applications with a modular
framework, the Hyperledger Fabric can be used, which
allows modules, such as membership services and
consensus. To choose a distributed ledger framework
interoperable with other blockchains for providing
digital identities, the Hyperledger Indy can be used,
which provides libraries, tools, and reusable modules.
The Hyperledger Iroha is designed for IoT projects
that require distributed ledger technology with a
role-based permission model, while the Hyperledger
Sawtooth can be used for IoT projects that require
consensus algorithm named PoET. Tanwar et al. [121]
used Hyperledger Caliper [120] for measuring the
performance of blockchain-based access control policy
algorithms in IoT-based healthcare.
2) Libraries: There are four libraries developed by
Hyperledger group for distributed ledger frame-
works, namely Hyperledger Aries, Hyperledger Quilt,
Hyperledger Transact, and Hyperledger Ursa [150].
3) Tools: There are five tools developed by Hyperledger
group for distributed ledger frameworks, namely
Hyperledger Avalon [151], Hyperledger Caliper [120],
Hyperledger Cello [152], Hyperledger Explorer [153],
and Hyperledger Grid [154]. Zhang et al. [54]
used Hyperledger Caliper [120] for measuring the
performance of blockchain-based collaborative access
control scheme.
4) Open Source Blockchain Platforms:
1) MultiChain [123] is a platform for establishing a pri-
vate blocking chain that can be used by organizations
for financial transactions. The MultiChain platform pro-
vides a simple API and command-line interface with
the property to restrict access to the blockchain via
a list of authorized users. In addition, the MultiChain
platform is characterized by the scalability of selective
stream indexing and the data management of real-
time data feeds. Ferrag and Maglaras [39] created a
private blockchain using MultiChain to evaluate the
performance of blockchain-based energy networks.
2) Tendermint [136]: Tendermint Core is BFT middle-
ware that takes a state transition machine and replicates
it on many machines. Di Silvestre et al. [135] uses
Tendermint 0.24 to validate the distributed energy
system using a blockchain network.
3) JUICE platform [129] is an open permissioned
blockchain service platform. This platform can support
the design of smart contracts using Solidity and possess
a Java and Javascript-based Web/client tools for man-
aging and monitoring. Lin et al. [56] used the JUICE
platform to evaluate the utility of a blockchain-based
secure mutual authentication system. Lin et al. [86]
used the JUICE platform to investigate the time cost
of cryptographic algorithms used in a blockchain-based
system with fine-grained access control for industry 4.0
deployments.
4) Other Blockchain Platforms: There are other open-
source blockchain platforms that can be used as
blockchain testbed for the performance evaluation of
blockchain-based security and privacy systems. We cite
the following ten blockchain platforms: a) Algorand;
b) HydraChain; c) Stellar; d) Waves Platform; e) Tezos;
f) Smilo; g) Quorum; h) NEM; i) Qtum; and
j) Openchain.
VI. LESSONS LEARNED
Blockchain technology becomes the most popular com-
munication platform in the development of the IoT. The
blockchain-based security and privacy systems have received
a high level of scientific research attention in address-
ing the challenging issues of security and privacy in
IoT networks. For this reason, we have examined the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems for the IoT networks from different perspectives,
and we summarize the lessons learned from this review
below.
From the security analysis techniques point of view, there
are four basic techniques, namely BAN logic, game theory,
theory analysis, and AVISPA tool. These techniques can be
used for analyzing the security theorems of blockchain-based
security and privacy systems in terms of security requirements
(e.g., traceability, identity privacy, location privacy, nonrepu-
diation, authentication, etc.), and resistance to attacks (e.g.,
replay attacks, quantum attacks, etc.).
Through in-depth analysis and research, we were able to
classify the security and privacy requirements for blockchain-
based IoT applications into integrity, authentication, nonrepu-
diation, traceability, identity privacy, location privacy, scalabil-
ity, unforgeability, anonymity, trust management, access con-
trol, data reliability, perfect forward secrecy, confidentiality,
and data auditability.
From the attacks of blockchain technologies vulnerabil-
ity, we found nine-teen attacks discussed by the surveyed
blockchain-based security and privacy systems, including
replay attack, man-in-the-middle attack, chosen message
attack, denial-of-service attack, sybil attack, bad-mouthing
attack, on-off attack, whitewashing attack, false data injec-
tion attack, impersonation attack, modification attack, physical
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17255
capture attack, eavesdropping attack, collusion attack, anti-
key-leakage attack, cross-pairing attack, keyword guessing
attack, 51% attacks, and double spending.
Based on the performance metrics used in the performance
evaluation of blockchain-based security and privacy systems
for the IoT networks, we found eleven metrics, including
consensus delay, communication cost, computation cost, stor-
age overhead, blockchain storage size, blockchain update
time overhead, research questions-based metrics, impact of
blockchain consensus rate, average throughput, scalability of
blockchain, and transaction generation time.
According to the blockchain testbeds used in the
performance evaluation of blockchain-based security and pri-
vacy systems, we were able to classify the blockchain testbed
into private ethereum network, experimental environment,
hyperledger group, and open source blockchain platforms.
From the cryptography libraries used in the performance eval-
uation of blockchain-based security and privacy systems, we
found four cryptography libraries, including elliptic curve
library, PBC library, crypto++ library, and MIRACL library.
On the basis of the aforementioned studies and analyses
that we have performed, we propose a thirteen-step process
for building and evaluating a blockchain-based security and
privacy system.
1) Configuration of the IoT network (e.g., fog/edge com-
puting, SDN/NFV, cloud computing, etc.).
2) Selection of a consensus algorithm (e.g., PoW, PoS,
etc.).
3) Definition of the security and privacy requirements
(e.g., integrity, authentication, nonrepudiation, traceabil-
ity, etc.).
4) Definition of smart contracts to manage transactions
under specific conditions.
5) Definition of the threat models (e.g., 51% attacks,
denial-of-service attack, sybil attack, bad-mouthing
attack, etc.).
6) Identification of vulnerability and possible interdepen-
dencies of the blockchain-based security and privacy
system.
7) Selection of the cryptographic methods (e.g., SHA-256
hash function, ellipse curve cryptography, ciphertext-
policy attribute-based encryption, etc.).
8) Proposition of the principal steps of the blockchain-
based security and privacy system (e.g., system initial-
ization, device authentication, etc.) with considering the
configuration of the IoT network.
9) Analyzing the robustness of the blockchain-based secu-
rity and privacy system using different security analysis
techniques (e.g., BAN logic, game theory, theory anal-
ysis, and AVISPA tool).
10) Selection of a cryptography library (e.g., elliptic curve
library, PBC library, crypto++ library, MIRACL library,
etc.).
11) Selection of a blockchain explorer (e.g., Blockchain
explorer, Blockseer, Etherchain, etc.).
12) Selection of a blockchain testbed (e.g., private Ethereum
network, experimental environment, hyperledger group,
open source blockchain platform, etc.).
13) Evaluate the blockchain-based security and privacy
system using different performance metrics (e.g., con-
sensus delay, communication cost, computation cost,
storage overhead, blockchain storage size, etc.).
VII. OPEN CHALLENGES AND FUTURE RESEARCH
OPPORTUNITIES
To complete our review, we outline both open challenges
and future research opportunities that could improve the capa-
bilities and effectiveness of blockchain-based security and
privacy systems for the IoT networks, summarized in the
following suggestions.
A. Evaluating the Blockchain-Based Intrusion Detection
Systems
There is recent work that combines the intrusion detec-
tion systems with blockchain technology for the IoT
networks [155]–[157]. The intrusion detection system is
proposed to defend against the forged commands and detect
network attacks using machine learning (e.g., deep learning),
while the blockchain technology is proposed for checking the
data integrity as well as enabling transparency of information.
Therefore, when evaluating the performance of blockchain-
based intrusion detection systems, it is struggling to find com-
prehensive and valid cyber security data sets [158]. Currently,
the most cyber security data sets used in the performance
evaluation of intrusion detection systems are not simulated on
blockchain-based IoT environments, such as KDD Cup 1999
data set, UNSW-NB15 data set, and NSL-KDD data set. The
development of a new data set to build a network intrusion
detector under a blockchain-based IoT environment is one of
the significant research challenges.
B. Developing Efficient Consensus Mechanisms
The most popular consensus algorithms used in the
blockchain are PoW, PoS, and PBFT. These consensus algo-
rithms does not take into consideration the capacity limits for
storage and computing of IoT devices. The IOTA project [159]
is a cryptocurrency for the IoT industry which enables micro-
payment transactions between IoT devices and protects the
integrity and verifiability of data [160]. The IOTA adopts DAG
consensus (i.e., no miners) which can achieve high through-
put with low computational overhead [27]. Therefore, there
are many characteristics that should be taken into consider-
ation when developing more efficient consensus mechanisms
for IoT networks, such as transaction processing rate, secu-
rity service, quantum computations, and decentralized trust. A
possible research direction in this topic could be related to
developing a hybrid consensus mechanism that combines the
advantages of both DAG and other consensus algorithms. In
addition, we believe that performance and security analysis of
resistance to quantum computations is needed for the IOTA
project.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17256 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
C. Blockchain-Based Software-Defined Networking for IoT
Application
We have seen that the combination of blockchain technology
and software-defined networking offers promising opportuni-
ties to address the security challenges of the IoT environ-
ment and make it more secure. However, several challenges
remain for the practical realization of the blockchain-based
software-defined networking to replace the existing schemes.
The absence of strong cryptographic encryption schemes
between the SDN controller and the blockchain database can
result in a serious violation of the confidentiality of com-
munications [161]. Hence, autonomous trust mechanisms for
establishing the authenticity of communication between the
SDN controller and the blockchain database must be designed
and implemented. In addition, the issue of man-in-the-middle
attacks and denial-of-service attacks against the blockchain-
based software-defined networking for IoT application still
remains a very challenging one to tackle.
D. 5G-Enabled Blockchain-Based IoT Networks
Since the information on the state and location of an IoT
node contained in the broadcast messages could be captured
and used for misuse, the privacy leakage risk of blockchain
will be more significant in 5G-enabled blockchain-based IoT
networks. The technique for hiding the true identity of an IoT
device is anonymity, which can be ensured by pseudonyms.
Therefore, any person, organization, industry, public sector, or
even attacker can access the detailed tracking information of
IoT devices (e.g., vehicles) by reviewing the messages broad-
casted periodically by IoT devices [162]. Some interesting
technologies can be applied to this problem: game theory and
reinforcement learning [163], privacy-aware and asynchronous
deep learning [164], and privacy-preserving range query [164].
Hence, conducting researches and developing more secure,
efficient, and practical privacy-preserving schemes using these
technologies for 5G-enabled blockchain-based IoT networks
will contribute significantly to the development of blockchain.
E. Secure Blockchain Ledgers at Fog Computing
Caching the blockchain ledgers at the storage spaces on
Fog computing is an efficient and cost-effective approach to
reducing the latency of IoT-enabled blockchain [165] as well
as traffic overhead in large-scale industrial applications [166].
The confidentiality of blockchain ledgers, however, is diffi-
cult to preserve, from which attackers can deduce transactions
from target IoT devices. To secure blockchain ledgers at
fog computing, the following critical challenges need to be
solved [167]: 1) how to select trusted nodes at fog comput-
ing for caching blockchain ledgers?; 2) when IoT devices
request the blockchain ledgers, where cache the requested
IoT data?; and 3) when trusted nodes at fog computing are
damaged, how to ensure the confidentiality of blockchain
ledgers?. Some interesting cache placement strategies can
be applied to this problem: privacy-preserving data aggrega-
tion [168], enhanced revocable access control [169], fog data
dissemination [170], and privacy-preserving range query [171].
Thus, conducting researches on blockchain ledgers replace-
ment approaches and developing more secure, efficient, and
practical data retrieval schemes will contribute significantly
to the development of secure blockchain ledgers at Fog
computing.
F. Developing Efficient and Privacy-Preserving Schemes
The IoT devices in blockchain-based IoT applications have
group-based behavior and high/frequent mobility that require
new challenges in privacy preserving. However, some emerg-
ing cryptographic techniques, e.g., anonymization, mixing,
and differential privacy, etc., can be considered to design an
efficient and privacy-preserving scheme. The anonymization
techniques, such as k-anonymity aim to hide the querying user
among k users [172]. The differential privacy techniques aim
to protect real-time data by adding random noise based on the
mathematical algorithms, e.g., Laplace distribution, Symmetric
geometric distribution, etc [173], while mixing technique is
used to improve anonymity by mixing tokens [174]. To design
efficient and privacy-preserving schemes using these tech-
niques, the following critical challenges need to be solved:
1) how to optimize the computing cost for k-anonymity mech-
anisms since the IoT devices are characterized by limited
resources?; 2) how to add appropriate noises to support dif-
ferential privacy?; and 3) how to achieve a good tradeoff of
efficiency, accuracy, and privacy?. To this end, these crypto-
graphic techniques should be carefully designed to provide
efficient and privacy-preserving schemes for blockchain-based
IoT applications.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we surveyed research challenges and a tuto-
rial on performance evaluation of blockchain-based security
and privacy systems for the IoT networks. We reviewed the
blockchain-based security and privacy systems for seventeen
types of IoT applications, e.g., Industry 4.0, software-defined
networking, edge computing, Internet of Drones, Internet of
Cloud, Internet of Energy, Internet of Vehicles, etc. We also
reviewed various consensus algorithms and provide a com-
parison with respect to the nine properties, such as latency,
throughput, computation, storage, and communication costs,
scalability, attack model, advantage, and disadvantage, etc.
Through in-depth analysis and research, we were able to
classify the security analysis techniques and provide a clas-
sification into four categories, including BAN logic, game
theory, theory analysis, and AVISPA tool. Furthermore, we
analyzed the performance metrics, blockchain testbeds, and
cryptography libraries used in the performance evaluation
of blockchain-based security and privacy systems for the
IoT networks. On the basis of the current survey, we dis-
cussed the major steps to follow for building and evaluating
blockchain-based security and privacy systems. Finally, we
discussed and highlighted open challenges and future research
opportunities.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17257
REFERENCES
[1] I. Butun, P. Österberg, and H. Song, “Security of the Internet of Things:
Vulnerabilities, attacks and countermeasures,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 616–644, 1st Quart., 2020.
[2] M. A. Al-Garadi, A. Mohamed, A. Al-Ali, X. Du, I. Ali, and
M. Guizani, “A survey of machine and deep learning methods for
Internet of Things (IoT) security,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1646–1685, 3rd Quart., 2020.
[3] J. Sengupta, S. Ruj, and S. D. Bit, “A comprehensive survey on attacks,
security issues and blockchain solutions for IoT and IIoT,” J. Netw.
Comput. Appl., vol. 149, Jan. 2020, Art. no. 102481.
[4] Y. Xiao, N. Zhang, W. Lou, and Y. T. Hou, “A survey of distributed
consensus protocols for blockchain networks,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1432–1465, 2nd Quart., 2020.
[5] M. A. Ferrag, L. Maglaras, and H. Janicke, “Blockchain and its role in
the Internet of Things,” in Strategic Innovative Marketing and Tourism.
Heidelberg, Germany: Springer, 2019, pp. 1029–1038.
[6] M. S. Ali, M. Vecchio, M. Pincheira, K. Dolui, F. Antonelli, and
M. H. Rehmani, “Applications of blockchains in the Internet of Things:
A comprehensive survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 2,
pp. 1676–1717, 2nd Quart., 2018.
[7] J. Kolb, M. AbdelBaky, R. H. Katz, and D. E. Culler, “Core concepts,
challenges, and future directions in blockchain: A centralized tutorial,”
ACM Comput. Surveys, vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 1–39, 2020.
[8] M. A. Ferrag, L. Shu, X. Yang, A. Derhab, and L. Maglaras, “Security
and privacy for green IoT-based agriculture: Review, blockchain solu-
tions, and challenges,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 32031–32053, 2020.
[9] P. Mehta, R. Gupta, and S. Tanwar, “Blockchain envisioned UAV
networks: Challenges, solutions, and comparisons,” Comput. Commun.,
vol. 151, pp. 518–538, Feb. 2020.
[10] M. Belotti, N. Božić, G. Pujolle, and S. Secci, “A vademecum on
blockchain technologies: When, which, and how,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 3796–3838, 4th Quart., 2019.
[11] H.-N. Dai, Z. Zheng, and Y. Zhang, “Blockchain for Internet of Things:
A survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8076–8094,
Oct. 2019.
[12] M. Wu, K. Wang, X. Cai, S. Guo, M. Guo, and C. Rong, “A com-
prehensive survey of blockchain: From theory to IoT applications
and beyond,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8114–8154,
Oct. 2019.
[13] M. A. Ferrag, M. Derdour, M. Mukherjee, A. Derhab, L. Maglaras,
and H. Janicke, “Blockchain technologies for the Internet of Things:
Research issues and challenges,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 2,
pp. 2188–2204, Apr. 2019.
[14] P. J. Taylor, T. Dargahi, A. Dehghantanha, R. M. Parizi, and
K.-K. R. Choo, “A systematic literature review of blockchain cyber
security,” Digit. Commun. Netw., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 147–156, 2020.
[15] J. Bao, D. He, M. Luo, and K.-K. R. Choo, “A survey of blockchain
applications in the energy sector,” IEEE Syst. J., early access, Jul. 2,
2020, doi: 10.1109/JSYST.2020.2998791.
[16] M. B. Mollah et al., “Blockchain for future smart grid: A compre-
hensive survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 18–43,
Jan. 2021.
[17] X. Li, P. Jiang, T. Chen, X. Luo, and Q. Wen, “A survey on the secu-
rity of blockchain systems,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 107,
pp. 841–853, Jun. 2020.
[18] E. J. De Aguiar, B. S. Faiçal, B. Krishnamachari, and J. Ueyama, “A
survey of blockchain-based strategies for healthcare,” ACM Comput.
Surveys, vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 1–27, 2020.
[19] Q. Zhou, H. Huang, Z. Zheng, and J. Bian, “Solutions to scalability of
blockchain: A survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 16440–16455, 2020.
[20] D. D. F. Maesa and P. Mori, “Blockchain 3.0 applications survey,”
J. Parallel Distrib. Comput., vol. 138, pp. 99–114, Apr. 2020.
[21] A. Miglani, N. Kumar, V. Chamola, and S. Zeadally, “Blockchain for
Internet of Energy management: Review, solutions, and challenges,”
Comput. Commun., vol. 151, pp. 395–418, Feb. 2020.
[22] H. Rathore, A. Mohamed, and M. Guizani, “A survey of blockchain
enabled cyber-physical systems,” Sensors, vol. 20, no. 1, p. 282, 2020.
[23] T. Alharbi, “Deployment of blockchain technology in software defined
networks: A survey,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 9146–9156, 2020.
[24] A. Singh, R. M. Parizi, Q. Zhang, K.-K. R. Choo, and
A. Dehghantanha, “Blockchain smart contracts formalization:
Approaches and challenges to address vulnerabilities,” Comput.
Security, vol. 88, Jan. 2020, Art. no. 101654.
[25] M. S. Ferdous, M. J. M. Chowdhury, M. A. Hoque, and A. Colman,
“Blockchain consensuses algorithms: A survey,” 2020. [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.07091
[26] U. Bodkhe, D. Mehta, S. Tanwar, P. Bhattacharya, P. K. Singh, and
W.-C. Hong, “A survey on decentralized consensus mechanisms for
cyber physical systems,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 54371–54401, 2020.
[27] L. Lao, Z. Li, S. Hou, B. Xiao, S. Guo, and Y. Yang, “A survey of IoT
applications in blockchain systems: Architecture, consensus, and traffic
modeling,” ACM Comput. Surveys, vol. 53, no. 1, pp. 1–32, 2020.
[28] S. M. H. Bamakan, A. Motavali, and A. B. Bondarti, “A survey of
blockchain consensus algorithms performance evaluation criteria,” Exp.
Syst. Appl., vol. 154, Sep. 2020, Art. no. 113385.
[29] S. Wan, M. Li, G. Liu, and C. Wang, “Recent advances in con-
sensus protocols for blockchain: A survey,” Wireless Netw., vol. 26,
pp. 5579–5593, Nov. 2020.
[30] J. Noh, S. Jeon, and S. Cho, “Distributed blockchain-based message
authentication scheme for connected vehicles,” Electronics, vol. 9,
no. 1, p. 74, 2020.
[31] H. Tan and I. Chung, “Secure authentication and key management with
blockchain in VANETs,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 2482–2498, 2019.
[32] X. Li, Y. Wang, P. Vijayakumar, D. He, N. Kumar, and J. Ma,
“Blockchain-based mutual-healing group key distribution scheme in
unmanned aerial vehicles ad-hoc network,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 68, no. 11, pp. 11309–11322, Nov. 2019.
[33] M. A. Ferrag and L. Maglaras, “Deliverycoin: An IDs and blockchain-
based delivery framework for drone-delivered services,” Computers,
vol. 8, no. 3, p. 58, 2019.
[34] B. Bera, D. Chattaraj, and A. K. Das, “Designing secure blockchain-
based access control scheme in IoT-enabled Internet of Drones
deployment,” Comput. Commun., vol. 153, pp. 229–249, Mar. 2020.
[35] A. Islam and S. Y. Shin, “BUAV: A blockchain based secure UAV-
assisted data acquisition scheme in Internet of Things,” J. Commun.
Netw., vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 491–502, 2019.
[36] A. Sheikh, V. Kamuni, U. Asfia, S. Wagh, N. Singh, and D. Patel,
“Secured energy trading using Byzantine based blockchain consensus,”
IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 8554–8571, 2019.
[37] X. Yang, G. Wang, H. He, J. Lu, and Y. Zhang, “Automated demand
response framework in ELNS: Decentralized scheduling and smart con-
tract,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 58–72,
Jan. 2020.
[38] M. N. Kurt, Y. Yılmaz, and X. Wang, “Secure distributed
dynamic state estimation in wide-area smart grids,” IEEE Trans. Inf.
Forensics Security, vol. 15, pp. 800–815, Jul. 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8759957
[39] M. A. Ferrag and L. Maglaras, “DeepCoin: A novel deep learning and
blockchain-based energy exchange framework for smart grids,” IEEE
Trans. Eng. Manag., vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 1285–1297, Nov. 2020.
[40] X. Zhu, J. Shi, S. Huang, and B. Zhang, “Consensus-oriented cloud
manufacturing based on blockchain technology: An exploratory study,”
Pervasive Mobile Comput., vol. 62, Feb. 2020, Art. no. 101113.
[41] P. Wei, D. Wang, Y. Zhao, S. K. S. Tyagi, and N. Kumar, “Blockchain
data-based cloud data integrity protection mechanism,” Future Gener.
Comput. Syst., vol. 102, pp. 902–911, Jan. 2020.
[42] K. Leng, Y. Bi, L. Jing, H.-C. Fu, and I. Van Nieuwenhuyse, “Research
on agricultural supply chain system with double chain architecture
based on blockchain technology,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 86,
pp. 641–649, Sep. 2018.
[43] A. Arena, A. Bianchini, P. Perazzo, C. Vallati, and G. Dini,
“BRUSCHETTA: An IoT blockchain-based framework for certifying
extra virgin olive oil supply chain,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Smart
Comput. (SMARTCOMP), 2019, pp. 173–179.
[44] D.-H. Shih, K.-C. Lu, Y.-T. Shih, and P.-Y. Shih, “A simulated organic
vegetable production and marketing environment by using Ethereum,”
Electronics, vol. 8, no. 11, p. 1341, 2019.
[45] H.-T. Wu and C.-W. Tsai, “An intelligent agriculture network security
system based on private blockchains,” J. Commun. Netw., vol. 21, no. 5,
pp. 503–508, 2019.
[46] S. Wang et al., “Blockchain-powered parallel healthcare systems based
on the ACP approach,” IEEE Trans. Comput. Soc. Syst., vol. 5, no. 4,
pp. 942–950, Dec. 2018.
[47] B. W. Jo, R. M. A. Khan, and Y.-S. Lee, “Hybrid blockchain and
Internet-of-Things network for underground structure health monitor-
ing,” Sensors, vol. 18, no. 12, p. 4268, 2018.
[48] A. Derhab, M. Guerroumi, L. Maglaras, M. A. Ferrag, M. Mukherjee,
and F. A. Khan, “BLOSTER: Blockchain-based system for detection of
fraudulent rules in software-defined networks,” in Proc. 6th Int. Symp.
ICS SCADA Cyber Security Res., Jun. 2019, pp. 38–40.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JSYST.2020.2998791
17258 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
[49] D. B. Rawat, “Fusion of software defined networking, edge computing,
and blockchain technology for wireless network virtualization,” IEEE
Commun. Mag., vol. 57, no. 10, pp. 50–55, Oct. 2019.
[50] R. Chaudhary, A. Jindal, G. S. Aujla, S. Aggarwal, N. Kumar,
and K.-K. R. Choo, “BEST: Blockchain-based secure energy trading
in SDN-enabled intelligent transportation system,” Comput. Security,
vol. 85, pp. 288–299, Aug. 2019.
[51] X. Lin, J. Li, J. Wu, H. Liang, and W. Yang, “Making knowledge trad-
able in edge-AI enabled IoT: A consortium blockchain-based efficient
and incentive approach,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 12,
pp. 6367–6378, Dec. 2019.
[52] H. Huang, K.-C. Li, and X. Chen, “Blockchain-based fair three-party
contract signing protocol for fog computing,” Concurrency Comput.
Practice Exp., vol. 31, no. 22, 2019, Art. no. e4469.
[53] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. Leung, “Decentralized
resource allocation for video transcoding and delivery in blockchain-
based system with mobile edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 68, no. 11, pp. 11169–11185, Nov. 2019.
[54] Y. Zhang, B. Li, B. Liu, J. Wu, Y. Wang, and X. Yang, “An attribute-
based collaborative access control scheme using blockchain for IoT
devices,” Electronics, vol. 9, no. 2, p. 285, 2020.
[55] J. Niu, X. Li, J. Gao, and Y. Han, “Blockchain-based anti-key-
leakage key aggregation searchable encryption for IoT,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 1502–1518, Feb. 2020.
[56] C. Lin, D. He, N. Kumar, X. Huang, P. Vijaykumar, and K.-K. R. Choo,
“HomeChain: A blockchain-based secure mutual authentication system
for smart homes,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 818–829,
Feb. 2020.
[57] V. Gramoli, “From blockchain consensus back to Byzantine consen-
sus,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 107, pp. 760–769, Jun. 2020.
[58] S. Nakamoto. (2008). Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[59] K. Driscoll, B. Hall, H. Sivencrona, and P. Zumsteg, “Byzantine fault
tolerance, from theory to reality,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Comput. Safety
Rel. Security, 2003, pp. 235–248.
[60] M. Castro et al., “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,” in Proc. OSDI,
vol. 99, 1999, pp. 173–186.
[61] D. Mazieres, The Stellar Consensus Protocol: A Federated Model for
Internet-Level Consensus, Stellar Develop. Found., San Francisco, CA,
USA, 2015.
[62] W. Li, S. Andreina, J.-M. Bohli, and G. Karame, “Securing
proof-of-stake blockchain protocols,” in Data Privacy Management,
Cryptocurrencies and Blockchain Technology. Cham, Switzerland:
Springer, 2017, pp. 297–315.
[63] F. Yang, W. Zhou, Q. Wu, R. Long, N. N. Xiong, and M. Zhou,
“Delegated proof of stake with downgrade: A secure and efficient
blockchain consensus algorithm with downgrade mechanism,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, pp. 118541–118555, 2019.
[64] B. Wang, M. Dabbaghjamanesh, A. Kavousi-Fard, and S. Mehraeen,
“Cybersecurity enhancement of power trading within the networked
microgrids based on blockchain and directed acyclic graph approach,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 7300–7309, Nov./Dec. 2019.
[65] A. Vangala, A. K. Sutrala, A. K. Das, and M. Jo, “Smart
contract-based blockchain-envisioned authentication scheme for smart
farming,” IEEE Internet Things J., early access, Jan. 11, 2020,
doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3050676.
[66] Z. Xu, W. Liang, K.-C. Li, J. Xu, and H. Jin, “A blockchain-based
roadside unit-assisted authentication and key agreement protocol for
Internet of Vehicles,” J. Parallel Distrib. Comput., vol. 149, pp. 29–39,
Mar. 2021.
[67] X. Cheng, F. Chen, D. Xie, H. Sun, and C. Huang, “Design of a
secure medical data sharing scheme based on blockchain,” J. Med.
Syst., vol. 44, no. 2, p. 52, 2020.
[68] A. Wilczyński and J. Kołodziej, “Modelling and simulation of security-
aware task scheduling in cloud computing based on blockchain
technology,” Simulat. Model. Practice Theory, vol. 99, Feb. 2020,
Art. no. 102038.
[69] C. Lai, M. Zhang, J. Cao, and D. Zheng, “SPIR: A secure and privacy-
preserving incentive scheme for reliable real-time map updates,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 416–428, Jan. 2020.
[70] B. Luo, X. Li, J. Weng, J. Guo, and J. Ma, “Blockchain enabled trust-
based location privacy protection scheme in VANET,” IEEE Trans. Veh.
Technol., vol. 69, no. 2, pp. 2034–2048, Feb. 2020.
[71] Y. Yao, X. Chang, J. Misic, and V. B. Misic, “Lightweight and privacy-
preserving ID-as-a-service provisioning in vehicular cloud computing,”
IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 2, pp. 2185–2194, Feb. 2020.
[72] L. Zhang, H. Li, Y. Li, Y. Yu, M. H. Au, and B. Wang, “An
efficient linkable group signature for payer tracing in anonymous
cryptocurrencies,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 101, pp. 29–38,
Dec. 2019.
[73] Z. Zhang, Z. Hong, W. Chen, Z. Zheng, and X. Chen, “Joint compu-
tation offloading and coin loaning for blockchain-empowered mobile-
edge computing,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 9934–9950,
Dec. 2019.
[74] H. Wang, L. Wang, Z. Zhou, X. Tao, G. Pau, and F. Arena,
“Blockchain-based resource allocation model in fog computing,” Appl.
Sci., vol. 9, no. 24, p. 5538, 2019.
[75] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao, and Q. Wu, “Blockchain-based
secure spectrum trading for unmanned-aerial-vehicle-assisted cellular
networks: An operator’s perspective,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 451–466, Jan. 2020.
[76] J. Li et al., “Decentralized on-demand energy supply for blockchain
in Internet of Things: A microgrids approach,” IEEE Trans. Comput.
Soc. Syst., vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 1395–1406, Dec. 2019.
[77] N. Eltayieb, R. Elhabob, A. Hassan, and F. Li, “A blockchain-based
attribute-based signcryption scheme to secure data sharing in the
cloud,” J. Syst. Archit., vol. 102, Jan. 2020, Art. no. 101653.
[78] PBC Library. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
http://crypto.stanford.edu/pbc
[79] L. Nkenyereye, B. A. Tama, M. K. Shahzad, and Y.-H. Choi, “Secure
and blockchain-based emergency driven message protocol for 5G
enabled vehicular edge computing,” Sensors, vol. 20, no. 1, p. 154,
2020.
[80] Crypto++ Library. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.cryptopp.com/
[81] L. Cheng et al., “SCTSC: A semicentralized traffic signal control mode
with attribute-based blockchain in IoVs,” IEEE Trans. Comput. Soc.
Syst., vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 1373–1385, Dec. 2019.
[82] I. Ali, M. Gervais, E. Ahene, and F. Li, “A blockchain-based cer-
tificateless public key signature scheme for vehicle-to-infrastructure
communication in VANETs,” J. Syst. Archit., vol. 99, Oct. 2019,
Art. no. 101636.
[83] Miracl Library. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/miracl/MIRACL
[84] L. Xie, Y. Ding, H. Yang, and X. Wang, “Blockchain-based secure and
trustworthy Internet of Things in SDN-enabled 5G-VANETs,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, pp. 56656–56666, 2019.
[85] Y. Li et al., “Toward privacy and regulation in blockchain-based cryp-
tocurrencies,” IEEE Netw., vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 111–117, Sep./Oct. 2019.
[86] C. Lin, D. He, X. Huang, K.-K. R. Choo, and A. V. Vasilakos,
“BSein: A blockchain-based secure mutual authentication with fine-
grained access control system for industry 4.0,” J. Netw. Comput. Appl.,
vol. 116, pp. 42–52, Aug. 2018.
[87] L.-A. Hîrţan, C. Dobre, and H. González-Vélez, “Blockchain-based
reputation for intelligent transportation systems,” Sensors, vol. 20,
no. 3, p. 791, 2020.
[88] C. Chen, J. Wu, H. Lin, W. Chen, and Z. Zheng, “A secure and efficient
blockchain-based data trading approach for Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 9110–9121, Sep. 2019.
[89] C. Dang, J. Zhang, C.-P. Kwong, and L. Li, “Demand side load
management for big industrial energy users under blockchain-based
peer-to-peer electricity market,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 6,
pp. 6426–6435, Nov. 2019.
[90] S. M. Danish, M. Lestas, H. K. Qureshi, K. Zhang, W. Asif,
and M. Rajarajan, “Securing the LoRaWAN join procedure using
blockchains,” Clust. Comput., vol. 23, pp. 2123–2138, Sep. 2020.
[91] Q. Lu, X. Xu, Y. Liu, I. Weber, L. Zhu, and W. Zhang, “uBaaS: A
unified blockchain as a service platform,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst.,
vol. 101, pp. 564–575, Dec. 2019.
[92] M. Shen, Y. Deng, L. Zhu, X. Du, and N. Guizani, “Privacy-
preserving image retrieval for medical IoT systems: A blockchain-
based approach,” IEEE Netw., vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 27–33, Sep./Oct. 2019.
[93] Blockchain Explorer. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.blockchain.com/explorer
[94] Blockseer. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.blockseer.com/
[95] Etherchain. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://etherchain.org/
[96] Ethereum Geth. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/ethereum/go-ethereum/wiki
[97] Hyperledger. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/ 2020.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3050676
FERRAG AND SHU: PERFORMANCE EVALUATION OF BLOCKCHAIN-BASED SECURITY AND PRIVACY SYSTEMS 17259
[98] M. Burrows, M. Abadi, and R. M. Needham, “A logic of authentica-
tion,” Proc. Roy. Soc. London A Math. Phys. Sci., vol. 426, no. 1871,
pp. 233–271, 1989.
[99] Differential Game. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/topics/computer-science/differential-
game
[100] Automated Validation of Internet Security Protocols and Applications.
Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available: http://www.avispa-
project.org/
[101] M. A. Ferrag, “EPEC: An efficient privacy-preserving energy con-
sumption scheme for smart grid communications,” Telecommun. Syst.,
vol. 66, no. 4, pp. 671–688, 2017.
[102] M. A. Ferrag, L. Maglaras, and A. Ahmim, “Privacy-preserving
schemes for ad hoc social networks: A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 3015–3045, 4th Quart., 2017.
[103] D. Zhang, J. Le, N. Mu, and X. Liao, “An anonymous off-blockchain
micropayments scheme for cryptocurrencies in the real world,” IEEE
Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 32–42, Jan. 2020.
[104] P. Kochovski, S. Gec, V. Stankovski, M. Bajec, and P. D. Drobintsev,
“Trust management in a blockchain based fog computing platform
with trustless smart oracles,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 101,
pp. 747–759, Dec. 2019.
[105] Q. Lyu, Y. Qi, X. Zhang, H. Liu, Q. Wang, and N. Zheng, “SBAC:
A secure blockchain-based access control framework for information-
centric networking,” J. Netw. Comput. Appl., vol. 149, Jan. 2020,
Art. no. 102444.
[106] G. Ali, N. Ahmad, Y. Cao, M. Asif, H. Cruickshank, and Q. E. Ali,
“Blockchain based permission delegation and access control in Internet
of Things (BACI),” Comput. Security, vol. 86, pp. 318–334, Sep. 2019.
[107] K. Gai, Y. Wu, L. Zhu, L. Xu, and Y. Zhang, “Permissioned
blockchain and edge computing empowered privacy-preserving smart
grid networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 7992–8004,
Oct. 2019.
[108] Y. Li, Y. Tu, J. Lu, and Y. Wang, “A security transmission and storage
solution about sensing image for blockchain in the Internet of Things,”
Sensors, vol. 20, no. 3, p. 916, 2020.
[109] H. Ma, E. X. Huang, and K.-Y. Lam, “Blockchain-based mechanism
for fine-grained authorization in data crowdsourcing,” Future Gener.
Comput. Syst., vol. 106, pp. 121–134, May 2020.
[110] Y. Liu and S. Zhang, “Information security and storage of Internet of
Things based on block chains,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 106,
pp. 296–303, May 2020.
[111] N. Kabra, P. Bhattacharya, S. Tanwar, and S. Tyagi, “MudraChain:
Blockchain-based framework for automated cheque clearance in finan-
cial institutions,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 102, pp. 574–587,
Jan. 2020.
[112] T. Zhou, X. Li, and H. Zhao, “MED-PPPHIS: Blockchain-based per-
sonal healthcare information system for national physique monitoring
and scientific exercise guiding,” J. Med. Syst., vol. 43, no. 9, p. 305,
2019.
[113] S. Jiang, X. Zhu, and L. Wang, “An efficient anonymous batch authen-
tication scheme based on HMAC for VANETs,” IEEE Trans. Intell.
Transp. Syst., vol. 17, no. 8, pp. 2193–2204, Aug. 2016.
[114] N. Gayathri, G. Thumbur, P. V. Reddy, and Z. U. R. Muhammad,
“Efficient pairing-free certificateless authentication scheme with batch
verification for vehicular ad-hoc networks,” IEEE Access, vol. 6,
pp. 31808–31819, 2018.
[115] T.-H. Chang and D. Svetinovic, “Improving bitcoin ownership identi-
fication using transaction patterns analysis,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man,
Cybern., Syst., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 9–20, Jan. 2020.
[116] Z. Wang, H. Yu, Z. Zhang, J. Piao, and J. Liu, “ECDSA weak random-
ness in bitcoin,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 102, pp. 507–513,
Jan. 2020.
[117] M. Poongodi et al., “Prediction of the price of ethereum blockchain
cryptocurrency in an industrial finance system,” Comput. Elect. Eng.,
vol. 81, Jan. 2020, Art. no. 106527.
[118] Ganache. Accessed: Jan. 28, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.trufflesuite.com/ganache
[119] MATLAB. Accessed: Jan. 28, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab.html
[120] Hyperledger Caliper. Accessed: Mar. 27, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/caliper
[121] S. Tanwar, K. Parekh, and R. Evans, “Blockchain-based electronic
healthcare record system for healthcare 4.0 applications,” J. Inf.
Security Appl., vol. 50, Feb. 2020, Art. no. 102407.
[122] K. M. Khan, J. Arshad, and M. M. Khan, “Investigating performance
constraints for blockchain based secure e-voting system,” Future Gener.
Comput. Syst., vol. 105, pp. 13–26, Apr. 2020.
[123] Multichain. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.multichain.com/download-install/
[124] A. Yazdinejad, R. M. Parizi, A. Dehghantanha, and K.-K. R. Choo,
“P4-to-blockchain: A secure blockchain-enabled packet parser for
software defined networking,” Comput. Security, vol. 88, Jan. 2020,
Art. no. 101629.
[125] M. Kadadha, H. Otrok, R. Mizouni, S. Singh, and A. Ouali,
“SenseChain: A blockchain-based crowdsensing framework for
multiple requesters and multiple workers,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst.,
vol. 105, pp. 650–664, Apr. 2020.
[126] Solidity. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
[127] E. K. Wang, Z. Liang, C.-M. Chen, S. Kumari, and M. K. Khan,
“PoRX: A reputation incentive scheme for blockchain consensus of
IIoT,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 102, pp. 140–151, Jan. 2020.
[128] C. Lin, D. He, S. Zeadally, N. Kumar, and K.-K. R. Choo, “SecBCS:
A secure and privacy-preserving blockchain-based crowdsourcing
system,” Sci. China Inf. Sci., vol. 63, no. 3, Feb. 2020, Art. no. 130102.
[Online]. Available: https://doi.org/10.1007/s11432-019-9893-2
[129] Juice Platform. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://open.juzix.net/
[130] A. Maw, S. Adepu, and A. Mathur, “ICs-blockops: Blockchain for
operational data security in industrial control system,” Pervasive Mobile
Comput., vol. 59, Oct. 2019, Art. no. 101048.
[131] B. Kaynak, S. Kaynak, and Ö. Uygun, “Cloud manufacturing archi-
tecture based on public blockchain technology,” IEEE Access, vol. 8,
pp. 2163–2177, 2019.
[132] Nethereum Library. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/Nethereum/Nethereum
[133] V. Sharma, I. You, D. N. K. Jayakody, D. G. Reina, and K.-K. R. Choo,
“Neural-blockchain-based ultrareliable caching for edge-enabled UAV
networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 10, pp. 5723–5736,
Oct. 2019.
[134] Rinkeby Ethereum Testnet. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online].
Available: https://www.rinkeby.io/
[135] M. L. Di Silvestre et al., “Ancillary services in the energy blockchain
for microgrids,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 7310–7319,
Nov./Dec. 2019.
[136] Tendermint. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://tendermint.com/
[137] Truffle. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.trufflesuite.com/
[138] E. Androulaki et al., “Hyperledger fabric: A distributed operating
system for permissioned blockchains,” in Proc. 13th EuroSys Conf.,
2018, pp. 1–15.
[139] Remix—Ethereum IDE. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://remix.ethereum.org/
[140] A. Derhab et al., “Blockchain and random subspace learning-based
IDs for SDN-enabled Industrial IoT security,” Sensors, vol. 19, no. 14,
p. 3119, 2019.
[141] W. Dai, C. Dai, K.-K. R. Choo, C. Cui, D. Zou, and H. Jin, “SDTE:
A secure blockchain-based data trading ecosystem,” IEEE Trans. Inf.
Forensics Security, vol. 15, pp. 725–737, Jul. 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8759960
[142] Web3j. Accessed: Mar. 29, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://docs.web3j.io/
[143] G. J. Holzmann, “The model checker spin,” IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng.,
vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 279–295, May 1997.
[144] Hyperledger Besu. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/besu
[145] Hyperledger Burrow. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/hyperledger-burrow
[146] Hyperledger Fabric. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/fabric
[147] Hyperledger Indy. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/hyperledger-indy
[148] Hyperledger Iroha. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/iroha
[149] Hyperledger Sawtooth. Accessed: Mar. 17, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/sawtooth
[150] Hyperledger Ursa. Accessed: Mar. 27, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/ursa
[151] Hyperledger Avalon. Accessed: Mar. 27, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/avalon
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
17260 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 24, DECEMBER 15, 2021
[152] Hyperledger Cello. Accessed: Mar. 27, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/cello
[153] Hyperledger Explorer. Accessed: Mar. 27, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/explorer
[154] Hyperledger Grid. Accessed: Mar. 27, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/projects/grid
[155] H. Liang, J. Wu, S. Mumtaz, J. Li, X. Lin, and M. Wen, “MBID:
Micro-blockchain-based geographical dynamic intrusion detection for
V2X,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 57, no. 10, pp. 77–83, Oct. 2019.
[156] B. Hu, C. Zhou, Y.-C. Tian, Y. Qin, and X. Junping, “A collabora-
tive intrusion detection approach using blockchain for multimicrogrid
systems,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 49, no. 8,
pp. 1720–1730, Aug. 2019.
[157] O. Alkadi, N. Moustafa, B. Turnbull, and K.-K. R. Choo, “A deep
blockchain framework-enabled collaborative intrusion detection for
protecting IoT and cloud networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., early
access, May 22, 2020, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2020.2996590.
[158] F. Hussain, R. Hussain, S. A. Hassan, and E. Hossain, “Machine learn-
ing in IoT security: Current solutions and future challenges,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1686–1721, 3rd Quart.,
2020.
[159] The Tangle. Accessed: Jan. 28, 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://www.iota.org/foundation/research-papers
[160] Y. Li et al., “Direct acyclic graph-based ledger for Internet of Things:
Performance and security analysis,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 28,
no. 4, pp. 1643–1656, Aug. 2020.
[161] P. Mishra, A. Biswal, S. Garg, R. Lu, M. Tiwary, and D. Puthal,
“Software defined Internet of Things security: Properties, state of the
art, and future research,” IEEE Wireless Commun., vol. 27, no. 3,
pp. 10–16, Jun. 2020.
[162] C. Lai, R. Lu, D. Zheng, and X. S. Shen, “Security and privacy chal-
lenges in 5G-enabled vehicular networks,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 2,
pp. 37–45, Mar./Apr. 2020.
[163] Q. Xu, Z. Su, and R. Lu, “Game theory and reinforcement learning
based secure edge caching in mobile social networks,” IEEE Trans.
Inf. Forensics Security, vol. 15, pp. 3415–3429, Mar. 2020. [Online].
Available: https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9036917
[164] X. Liu, H. Li, G. Xu, S. Liu, Z. Liu, and R. Lu, “PADL: Privacy-aware
and asynchronous deep learning for IoT applications,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 7, no. 8, pp. 6955–6969, Aug. 2020.
[165] M. Mukherjee et al., “Security and privacy in fog computing:
Challenges,” IEEE Access, vol. 5, pp. 19293–19304, 2017.
[166] M. Mukherjee, L. Shu, and D. Wang, “Survey of fog computing:
Fundamental, network applications, and research challenges,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 1826–1857, 3rd Quart.,
2018.
[167] R. Lu, L. Zhang, J. Ni, and Y. Fang, “5G vehicle-to-everything services:
Gearing up for security and privacy,” Proc. IEEE, vol. 108, no. 2,
pp. 373–389, Feb. 2020.
[168] X. Shen, L. Zhu, C. Xu, K. Sharif, and R. Lu, “A privacy-preserving
data aggregation scheme for dynamic groups in fog computing,” Inf.
Sci., vol. 514, pp. 118–130, Apr. 2020.
[169] M. Wen, S. Chen, R. Lu, B. Li, and S. Chen, “Security and efficiency
enhanced revocable access control for fog-based smart grid system,”
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 137968–137981, 2019.
[170] Q. Kong, R. Lu, M. Ma, and H. Bao, “A privacy-preserving and ver-
ifiable querying scheme in vehicular fog data dissemination,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 2, pp. 1877–1887, Feb. 2019.
[171] R. Lu, “A new communication-efficient privacy-preserving range query
scheme in fog-enhanced IoT,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 2,
pp. 2497–2505, Apr. 2019.
[172] J. Wang, Z. Cai, and J. Yu, “Achieving personalized k-anonymity-based
content privacy for autonomous vehicles in CPS,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 4242–4251, Jun. 2020.
[173] M. U. Hassan, M. H. Rehmani, and J. Chen, “Differential privacy tech-
niques for cyber physical systems: A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 746–789, 1st Quart., 2019.
[174] U. Sarfraz, M. Alam, S. Zeadally, and A. Khan, “Privacy aware
IoTA ledger: Decentralized mixing and unlinkable IoTA transactions,”
Comput. Netw., vol. 148, pp. 361–372, Jan. 2019.
Mohamed Amine Ferrag received the bachelor’s,
master’s, Ph.D., and HDR degrees in computer
science from Badji Mokhtar—Annaba University,
Annaba, Algeria, in June, 2008, June, 2010, June,
2014, and April, 2019, respectively.
Since October 2014, he has been a Senior
Lecturer with the Department of Computer Science,
Guelma University, Guelma, Algeria. Since July
2019, he has been a Visiting Senior Researcher
with the NAU-Lincoln Joint Research Center
of Intelligent Engineering, Nanjing Agricultural
University, Nanjing, China. His research interests include wireless network
security, network coding security, and applied cryptography. He has published
over 80 papers in international journals and conferences in the above areas.
He has been conducting several research projects with international collabo-
rations on these topics. His current H-index is 19, i10-index is 29, and 1847
citations in Google Scholar Citation.
Dr. Ferrag is featured in Stanford University’s list of the world’s Top
2% scientists for the year 2019. Some of his research findings are
published in top-cited journals, such as the IEEE COMMUNICATIONS
SURVEYS AND TUTORIALS, IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL,
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, IEEE ACCESS,
Journal of Information Security and Applications (Elsevier), Transactions
on Emerging Telecommunications Technologies (Wiley), Telecommunication
Systems (Springer), International Journal of Communication Systems (Wiley),
Sustainable Cities and Society (Elsevier), and Journal of Network and
Computer Applications (Elsevier). He is currently serving on various edi-
torial positions, such as Editorial Board Member in Journals (Indexed SCI
and Scopus), such as, IET Networks, International Journal of Internet
Technology and Secured Transactions (Inderscience Publishers), Security
and Communication Networks (Wiley), and Journal of Sensor and Actuator
Networks (MDPI).
Lei Shu (Senior Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
degree in computer science from South Central
University for Nationalities, Wuhan, China, in
2002, the M.S. degree in computer engineering
from Kyung Hee University, Seoul, South Korea, in
2005, and the Ph.D. degree from Digital Enterprise
Research Institute, National University of Ireland,
Galway, Ireland, in 2010.
Until 2012, he was a Specially Assigned
Researcher with the Department of Multimedia
Engineering, Graduate School of Information
Science and Technology, Osaka University, Suita, Japan. He is currently
a Distinguished Professor with Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing,
China, and a Lincoln Professor with the University of Lincoln, Lincoln,
U.K., where he is also the Director of NAU-Lincoln Joint Research Center
of Intelligent Engineering. He has published over 400 papers in related
conferences, journals, and books in the areas of sensor networks and Internet
of Things. His current H-index is 62 and i10-index is 244 in Google Scholar
Citation. His current research interests include wireless sensor networks, and
Internet of Things.
Dr. Shu was a recipient of the 2014 Top Level Talents in Sailing Plan
of Guangdong Province, China, the 2015 Outstanding Young Professor of
Guangdong Province, and the GLOBECOM 2010, ICC 2013, ComManTel
2014, WICON 2016, SigTelCom 2017 Best Paper Awards, the 2017 and
2018 IEEE Systems Journal Best Paper Awards, the 2017 Journal of Network
and Computer Applications Best Research Paper Award, and the Outstanding
Associate Editor Award of 2017, and the 2018 IEEE ACCESS. He has served
as a TPC member for more than 160 conferences, such as ICDCS, DCOSS,
MASS, ICC, GLOBECOM, ICCCN, WCNC, and ISCC. He has also served
over the 60 various Co-Chair for international conferences/workshops,
such as IWCMC, ICC, ISCC, ICNC, Chinacom, especially the Symposium
Co-Chair for IWCMC 2012, ICC 2012, the General Co-Chair for Chinacom
2014, Qshine 2015, Collaboratecom 2017, DependSys 2018, and SCI 2019,
the TPC Chair for InisCom 2015, NCCA 2015, WICON 2016, NCCA 2016,
Chinacom 2017, InisCom 2017, WMNC 2017, and NCCA 2018.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:36:31 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.2996590
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <FEFF00560065007200770065006e00640065006e0020005300690065002000640069006500730065002000450069006e007300740065006c006c0075006e00670065006e0020007a0075006d002000450072007300740065006c006c0065006e00200076006f006e002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002d0044006f006b0075006d0065006e00740065006e002c00200075006d002000650069006e00650020007a0075007600650072006c00e40073007300690067006500200041006e007a006500690067006500200075006e00640020004100750073006700610062006500200076006f006e00200047006500730063006800e40066007400730064006f006b0075006d0065006e00740065006e0020007a0075002000650072007a00690065006c0065006e002e00200044006900650020005000440046002d0044006f006b0075006d0065006e007400650020006b00f6006e006e0065006e0020006d006900740020004100630072006f00620061007400200075006e0064002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000200075006e00640020006800f600680065007200200067006500f600660066006e00650074002000770065007200640065006e002e>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <FEFF005500740069006c0069007a006500200065007300730061007300200063006f006e00660069006700750072006100e700f50065007300200064006500200066006f0072006d00610020006100200063007200690061007200200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f0073002000410064006f00620065002000500044004600200061006400650071007500610064006f00730020007000610072006100200061002000760069007300750061006c0069007a006100e700e3006f002000650020006100200069006d0070007200650073007300e3006f00200063006f006e0066006900e1007600650069007300200064006500200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f007300200063006f006d0065007200630069006100690073002e0020004f007300200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f00730020005000440046002000630072006900610064006f007300200070006f00640065006d0020007300650072002000610062006500720074006f007300200063006f006d0020006f0020004100630072006f006200610074002000650020006f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e0030002000650020007600650072007300f50065007300200070006f00730074006500720069006f007200650073002e>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice