A Survey of Blockchain and Intelligent Networking for the Metaverse
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023 3587
A Survey of Blockchain and Intelligent Networking
for the Metaverse
Yuchuan Fu , Member, IEEE, Changle Li , Senior Member, IEEE, F. Richard Yu , Fellow, IEEE,
Tom H. Luan , Senior Member, IEEE, Pincan Zhao , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, and Sha Liu
Abstract—The virtual world created by the development of the
Internet, computers, artificial intelligence (AI), and hardware
technologies have brought various degrees of digital transfor-
mation to people’s lives. With multiple demands for virtual
reality increasing, the metaverse, a new type of social ecology
that can connect the physical and virtual worlds, is booming.
However, with the rapid growth of data volume and value, the
continuous evolution of the metaverse faces the demands and
challenges of privacy, security, high synchronization, and low
latency. Fortunately, the ever-evolving blockchain and intelligent
networking technologies can be used to satisfy the trusted con-
struction, continuous data interaction, and computing demands
of the metaverse. Therefore, it is necessary to conduct an in-
depth review of the role and gains of blockchain, intelligent
networking, and the combination of both in providing the immer-
sive experiences of the metaverse. In this survey, we first discuss
the development trend, characteristics, and architecture of the
metaverse. Then, the existing work on blockchain, networking,
and the combination of the two technologies are reviewed, includ-
ing overviews, applications, and challenges. Next, applications of
the metaverse are summarized, emphasizing the importance of
the metaverse and the fields of development. Finally, we discuss
some open issues, challenges, and future research directions.
Index Terms—blockchain, computing first network intelligent
(CFN) networking, Metaverse.
I. INTRODUCTION
IN RECENT years, due to the rapid development of com-
munication networks, artificial intelligence (AI), computing
technology, blockchain, and other technologies, humanity
enters an extraordinary era of technological explosion. The
way we interact with the physical world around us is rapidly
changing, which gives rise to the reemergence of the concept
of the metaverse. The term “metaverse” consists of the pre-
fix “meta” and the root “verse” (derived from the universe),
which first appeared in a science fiction novel called “Snow
Manuscript received 18 June 2022; revised 25 September 2022; accepted
10 November 2022. Date of publication 16 November 2022; date of current
version 6 February 2023. This work was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Program of China under Grant 2020YFB1807700,
and in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under
Grant 62101401. (Corresponding author: Changle Li.)
Yuchuan Fu, Changle Li, Pincan Zhao, and Sha Liu are with the State Key
Laboratory of Integrated Services Networks and Research Institute of Smart
Transportation, Xidian University, Xi’an 710071, Shaanxi, China (e-mail:
clli@mail.xidian.edu.cn).
F. Richard Yu is with the Department of Systems and Computer
Engineering, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada.
Tom H. Luan is with the School of Cyber Engineering, Xidian University,
Xi’an 710071, Shaanxi, China.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JIOT.2022.3222521
Crash” written by Neal Stephenson in 1992 [1]. Presently, the
metaverse can be regarded as is a hypothesized iteration of
the Internet, which combines physical and digital virtual envi-
ronments through extended reality (XR) to realize perception
and sharing [2]. Therefore, the metaverse provides an infi-
nite virtual digital world, which breaks the dimensional wall
of the physical world. In the digital world of any field, we
have an avatar that can directly and deeply participate in the
interaction.
To achieve such a complex ecosystem, what underlying
technology is needed to support and maintain its operation?
The core supporting technologies of the metaverse can be sum-
marized as “BIGANT” [3]. Here, “B” refers to Blockchain; “I”
refers to Interactivity; “G” refers to Game; “A” refers to AI;
“N” refers to network and computing technology (Network);
and “T” refers to Internet of Things (IoT). Among the above
technologies, interactivity, AI, and games are relatively mature
after long-term development. For example, many virtual real-
ity (VR) devices and metaverse games have emerged one after
another [2]. In order to provide users with an immersive expe-
rience, the interaction and processing of massive amounts
of data generated by the vast array of facilities and devices
contained in metaverse require ultrareliable, high-rate com-
munications and powerful continuous computing, which drives
the intelligent networking technology to ensure high synchro-
nization and low latency service. In addition, with the rapid
growth of data volume and the improvement of data value,
when building the metaverse, security issues, such as privacy
protection, trusted management, and data exchange cannot be
ignored. In this regard, blockchain can provide security for
the metaverse due to its characteristics of decentralization,
immutability, and transparency. Therefore, the application of
the intelligent networking and blockchain technology to the
metaverse is the focus of this survey.
To achieve the virtual-real fusion and trusted management
of the metaverse, it is conceivable that the combination of
blockchain and intelligent networking can provide a promis-
ing solution for the evolution of metaverse, which motivates
us to conduct this survey. An earlier long survey written
by Dionisio et al. [4] summarized the development of the
metaverse from four aspects, that is, reality, universality, inter-
operability, and scalability. The latest technologies, such as
blockchain and 6G are not involved. Recently, Lee et al. [5]
conducted a comprehensive survey of the metaverse from 14
aspects, as well as discuss six user-centric factors and research
agenda. Ning et al. [6] mainly investigated the technical
2327-4662 c© 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1966-9161
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2568-8908
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1006-7594
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5215-7443
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7393-5016
3588 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
TABLE I
COMPARATIVE STUDY OF THIS ARTICLE WITH EXISTING SURVEYS ON THE METAVERSE
architecture of the metaverse from five aspects: 1) infras-
tructure; 2) management technology; 3) general technology;
4) VR object connection; and 5) VR integration. The sur-
vey mainly focuses on the work of different countries and
enterprises regarding the metaverse. Khan et al. [7] investi-
gated wireless communication architectures for the metaverse
in detail, and discuss the potential and application scenarios
of the metaverse for improving wireless systems. In a short
survey, Falchuk et al. [8] mainly focused on privacy issues in
the metaverse to help VR participants protect privacy while
socializing. Recently, Gadekallu et al. [9] and Yang et al. [10]
investigated the blockchain technology for metaverse. Table I
compares this article and existing surveys on the metaverse.
Different from previous surveys, this work focuses on the
secure intelligent networking for the metaverse, especially to
see how to combine blockchain and intelligent networking to
create a better ecosystem. First, we provide background knowl-
edge about the metaverse, including the development trend,
characteristics, and structure of the metaverse, which can
provide readers with a systematic understanding and basic con-
cepts of this direction. Then, we introduce in detail the appli-
cation and integration of blockchain and intelligent networking
(including communication and computing networks) into the
metaverse, as well as opportunities and challenges. In order to
bridge the gap between academic research and actual products
in the industry, we also discuss some representative metaverse
applications. Subsequently, some open issues, challenges, and
potential solutions are proposed.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows.
First, background knowledge of the metaverse is intro-
duced in Section II. Subsequently, from Sections III–V, how
blockchain and intelligent networking work on the metaverse
are discussed, including: 1) blockchain for the metaverse
(Section III); 2) networking technologies for the metaverse
(Section IV); and 3) blockchain meets intelligence networking
in the metaverse (Section V). In Section VI, we introduce some
application examples of the metaverse. Finally, Section VII
discusses the challenges of building a metaverse and how to
solve these problems to meet the requirement of data secu-
rity, reliability, and user experience, followed by concluding
remarks in Section VIII. Fig. 1 outlines the organization of
the survey.
II. BACKGROUND KNOWLEDGE OF THE METAVERSE
In this section, we briefly introduce the background knowl-
edge of the metaverse from the development trend, character-
istics, and architecture.
A. Development Trend of the Metaverse
The metaverse is not a completely new concept, and a vir-
tual world similar to the metaverse is proposed very early. A
well-known pioneering work is TSR in 1974, which developed
a role-playing game “Dungeon & Dragon.”1 In this game, the
player plays an adventurer in a virtual world. In this stage, the
virtual world is still described in words.
Later, with the advent and application of personal laptops,
the description of the virtual world changed from text to code.
For example, AberMUD written by Alan Cox in 1987 was the
first popular MUD program Library. Players can create vir-
tual worlds through code language, and realize the interaction
between players in the virtual world. In 1990, with the devel-
opment of computer graphics technology, the virtual world had
a graphical description.
Then, in 1992, Stephenson first proposed the term “meta-
verse” in the science fiction novel “Snow Crash” [1]. After
that, the popularization of computers and the rapid develop-
ment of the Internet gave rise to new developments in the
virtual world. With the goal of creating a metaverse-like world
described by Stephenson, the Linden Lab developed a game
called second life in 2003 [11]. In the virtual world constructed
by this game, players can complete many social activities
through their virtual avatars. From the screen of the game
to the user’s behavior, it is very close to the physical world.
In addition, the virtual currency used in Second Life is called
Linden Dollar, which can not only be used for goods trans-
actions in the virtual world, but also can be exchanged for
U.S. dollars with some companies in the real world [12]. In
particular, the development of the blockchain technology and
virtual currency as well as its combination with virtual world
games has accelerated the development of virtual transactions.
The rapid development of the XR technology has laid a
new foundation for the metaverse. In 2016, Pokemon games
1https://dnd.wizards.com/
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3589
Fig. 1. Road map of the survey.
based on the augmented reality (AR) technology became pop-
ular all over the world. In this game, players can discover
Pokemon in the real world through smartphones, and capture
and fight them [13]. Another technology, namely, VR, enables
users to obtain a more realistic experience in a virtual environ-
ment by wearing VR devices (e.g., glasses and helmet). For
example, with Oculus Quest 2, which has excellent wireless
performance and high screen resolution, users can experience
VR games and movies.
The COVID-19 epidemic in 2020 has restricted people’s
actions in the physical world, which greatly increases the
demand for behavioral interaction in the virtual world. Online
education, online meeting, and online shopping become peo-
ple’s new choices, which makes the concept of the metaverse
once again attract widespread attention [14]. In 2021, Roblox,
an online game creation platform, began to invest heavily
in the metaverse business. In addition, Facebook, Microsoft,
ByteDance, and other companies have also begun to conduct
research on metaverse applications. 2021 is also known as the
year of the metaverse explosion.
B. Characteristics of the Metaverse
Presently, there is no standard definition of the metaverse.
Therefore, regarding the characteristics of the metaverse,
in [15], Matthew Ball describes the characteristics of the
metaverse as the following five aspects, that is persistence, syn-
chronicity, availability, economy, and interoperability. Roblox,
the first stock of the metaverse, proposes eight key characteris-
tics of the metaverse, namely, identity, friends, immersive, low
friction, variety, anywhere, economy, and civility. Although
there are different disputes about these characteristics, most
of them are accepted.
In addition, with the continuous development of the meta-
verse, the metaverse has broader characteristics. For example,
corporateity means being bound by the laws of physics and
limited resources. Open and free creation shows that a large
number of participants in the metaverse can create. We can
conclude that most of the important characteristics recognized
are availability, immersive experience, low latency (synchro-
nization), interaction, economic system, and civilization.
C. Architecture of the Metaverse
Although the concept of the metaverse has been proposed
for decades, there is still no unified architecture. Duan et al. [2]
summarized a three-layer architecture of the metaverse from a
macro perspective, from bottom to top, namely, infrastructure,
interaction, and ecosystem. Jon Radoff [16] proposed a seven-
layer architecture based on the value chain of the expected
market, which includes infrastructure, human interface, decen-
tralization, spatial computing, creator economy, discovery, and
experience from bottom to top.
In this survey, we combine [2], [5] to agree that the archi-
tecture of the metaverse spans the physical world and the
virtual world. Therefore, as shown in Fig. 2, from the bot-
tom to up, the digital twin is used to connect the physical
world and further realize the metaverse. On the right side
of the figure, we also list the corresponding six key com-
ponents, including technologies, hardware platforms, systems,
software, applications, and ecosystems. For each component,
the key elements are listed. For example, AI, network, com-
puting power, and blockchain, are used as the underlying hard
technical support. On this basis, various hardware platforms
(such as XR devices, sensors, computers, mobile phones, and
helmets), software, and systems (such as Windows, IOS, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3590 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
Fig. 2. Architecture of the metaverse [2], [5].
Android) are used to implement interaction and computing.
Through the support of different technologies, systems, and
platforms, the metaverse can be applied in various fields, such
as IoT, social, game, digital factory, and transportation. The
top layer is the ecosystem that allows the entire metaverse
to run, including avatar, content creation, data interoperabil-
ity, etc. Due to the focus of this survey, some components and
elements will not be emphasized. We focus on blockchain and
intelligent networking for the metaverse, as well as some appli-
cations. The specific details will be discussed in subsequent
sections.
III. BLOCKCHAIN FOR THE METAVERSE
The successful application of the blockchain technology has
changed the paradigm of economic activity in virtual space.
As a key technology for secure and reliable data sharing,
blockchain can perfectly match the various requirements of
the metaverse for data services and asset exchange. In this
section, we introduce the blockchain and its applications and
challenges in the metaverse.
A. Introduction to Blockchain
As a shared, consensus, and jointly maintained ledger,
blockchain can effectively promote the entire process of trans-
action recording and asset tracking in a distributed network.
The concept of the blockchain was originally proposed by
Satoshi Nakamoto [17] to ensure the peer-to-peer (P2P)
electronic cash payment technology without the need for a
centralized financial institution [18].
1) Why Blockchain Is Important?: As an ideal information
transmission and storage solution, blockchain can provide
timely, transparent, nontamperable, and multiparty shared
information services for various businesses [19], [20], [21].
Blockchain is mainly divided into three categories: 1) pub-
lic blockchain; 2) consortium blockchain; and 3) pri-
vate blockchain [22]. The degree of openness of different
blockchains is quite different. The public blockchain allows
any legal user to access and use the blockchain. In a con-
sortium blockchain, only the nodes that have obtained regis-
tration permission can access the blockchain network. Private
blockchain is limited to the internal use of the group. The
internal entities of the blockchain are transparent to each other,
but external entities cannot access any transaction content of
the blockchain. In conclusion, the blockchain provides differ-
entiated services for users with different needs. In addition,
several key elements of blockchain are also the key factor for
its wide applications.
Distributed Ledger: The internal network members of the
blockchain can access the transaction content recorded in the
blockchain. Once the transaction stored in the blockchain is
verified, there is no cancellation, that is, the transaction is irre-
versible. Since the recorded transaction information does not
contain any privacy content, any member of the network can
effectively track all transaction orders, timestamps, transfer
content, accounts, etc., which ensures the transparency of data.
Li et al. [23] proposed a scheme for issuing trusted and autho-
rized certificates which is based on a distributed ledger. The
domain ownership validation and attested results are recording
into blockchain for validation, which ensures the security and
tamper resistance.
Immutability of Transactions: Once a transaction is recorded
in the blockchain, any participant cannot change or tam-
per with the completed blockchain content. Asheralieva and
Niyato [24] proposed a learning-based resource management
scheme in public blockchain networks. The immutability of
blockchain is utilized to prevent the potential attacks and
provide the traceable information.
Smart Contract: In addition to transaction content, there
are a series of agreed rules stored in the blockchain that run
automatically, called a smart contract. The existence of smart
contracts makes the blockchain jump out of the scope of vir-
tual currency, enabling transactions, and transaction queries of
anything of value in the blockchain. The smart contract-based
negotiation frame proposed by Wang et al. [25] is designed
to ensure that the transactions are automatically and reliably
performed between the service participants. The reliability and
security are guaranteed.
2) Advantage of Blockchain: Trust: Members in the
blockchain network can record, transmit, and store data safely,
accurately, and in a timely manner. And according to different
application requirements, different types of blockchains can
be established to support the availability of data to users in
different ranges.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3591
Security: All members in the blockchain network need to
reach a consensus on the legality of transactions on the chain.
In addition, once the transaction is confirmed to be legal, it
will become immutable. Therefore, the content recorded on the
blockchain will be permanently recorded. No user can modify
or delete the transaction.
Efficiency: The members in the blockchain network
share the ledger, thus avoiding repeated reconciliations dur-
ing the interaction of the members in the network. In addition,
the existence of smart contracts can automatically execute the
rules stored in the blockchain to ensure efficient and orderly
transactions.
B. Blockchain-Based Metaverse
First of all, as a typical representative of blockchain appli-
cations, virtual currencies such as Bitcoin can provide unified
digital asset services for metaverse. The reliability and consis-
tency of various transactions in the system can be effectively
guaranteed. Second, in the face of the metaverse’s demand
for large-scale data recording, sharing, and storage, tradi-
tional centralized methods are faced with problems, such as
single point of failure and consumption of large amounts
of communication and computing resources. As an inter-
disciplinary technology, blockchain can perfectly match the
metaverse’s needs for data services. On the one hand, P2P
communication and storage solutions can effectively prevent
low security and low efficiency in the process of mass trans-
actions in the metaverse. On the other hand, the underlying
blockchain architecture based on cryptography, such as asym-
metric encryption and digital signatures can provide metaverse
users with a secure and reliable way to interact. Finally, as a
basic distributed ledger, the blockchain can effectively help the
participating entities in the metaverse to establish a personal-
ized service system. Therefore, the blockchain can provide
differentiated services for diversified metaverse applications.
1) Data Sharing: Any users in the metaverse can serve as
the data providers or data requesters. The P2P data-sharing
scheme of the blockchain can well meet the various needs of
data services in the metaverse. Blockchain-based information
sharing could provide users with data services ranging from
the virtual world to the physical world, and all the shared
information could be uniquely accepted by the data requesters
due to the characteristics of nontamperability and security [26].
Besides, the metaverse has certain customization requirements
and functions for the design of the blockchain system in dif-
ferent application scenarios. Therefore, on the one hand, the
consistency of changes in the physical world and the vir-
tual world can be ensured under the framework of blockchain
due to the real-time consensus and audit of all participating
nodes, and the information sharing between the two worlds
could remain consistent and accurate. On the other hand,
the information sharing between blockchains could remain
consistent and accurate to break the barriers of different appli-
cations, and thereby preventing the risk of tampering during
cross-chain information sharing.
Doku et al. [27] proposed a distributed data-sharing network
based on blockchain to ensure that data undergoes a thorough
review process before being accepted into the network. The
system uses natural language processing (NLP) and a dis-
tributed data-sharing platform to ensure the consistency of
the real world and the virtual world. Zhang et al. [28]
proposed a blockchain-based multiaccess edge computing
(MEC) for future vehicular networks. Liu et al. [29] proposed
a secure data-sharing scheme based on blockchain to pro-
vide an adaptive privacy protection mechanism based on
system resources and user privacy requirements. Cui et al. [30]
proposed a distributed scheme for sharing vehicle driving
data in the Internet of Vehicles (IoVs) scenario. The system
uses a blockchain-based solution to implement a vehicle-to-
vehicle (V2V) traceable information-sharing solution, which
can effectively prevent malicious data sharing under anony-
mous addresses.
Hence, blockchain-based data sharing could enable meta-
verse to achieve the secure information exchange between
virtual and physical world and various applications. Thereby,
the audit and quality of data can be guaranteed as well. In addi-
tion, the effective consensus mechanism design could avoid
many unnecessary disputes against the unreality of data and
economical issues due to the nontamperability of blockchain.
Furthermore, the avatar in will generate considerable data
once entering the metaverse. Thus, any private information
leaked will greatly affect the users’ participating confidence.
Blockchain-based information could avoid the situation that
the centralized data storage is compromised. All in all, the
decentralized essence of blockchain enable the data sharing in
a more secure, efficient, and reliable manner.
2) Data Storage: Facing the situation where all system
operations in the metaverse are digital, how to use the
blockchain to realize the efficient storage, retrieval and use
of data in the metaverse is a key issue. The blockchain tech-
nology is based on a P2P network to achieve data consistency
through distributed storage, which can provide effective data
storage services for the metaverse.
Facing the problems of high data update overhead and
fragile data storage strategies in traditional centralized meth-
ods, Yin et al. [31] proposed a blockchain-based data storage
system to support incremental data updates. The smart con-
tract and the interesting release of data effectively reduce the
amount of reuploaded data, thus reducing system overhead.
Chen et al. [32] focused on solving the high-efficiency data
access requirements in massive data storage, and therefore pro-
pose a method to divide data into continuous data and state
data. An index-based storage engine is used to efficiently store
and manipulate data. In order to protect the security of stored
data, Li et al. [33] proposed a blockchain-based distributed
data storage scheme, which can effectively solve the serious
trust problem caused by the strong dependence on centralized
servers. Dwivedi et al. [34] proposed a data storage solution
based on the interplanetary file system (IPFS) [35], which can
effectively solve the problem of limited storage capacity in the
blockchain by adopting a content addressing solution.
Therefore, blockchain-based data storage in metaverse could
guarantee the secure interaction between the users and the
applications in the virtual world. For example, the private
healthcare, real estate, etc. could be securely stored in a
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3592 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
private blockchain. Only the authorized entity could access
the relative sensitive information. Besides, secure data stor-
age in blockchain could ensure the consistency and continuity
between the virtual and physical world due to the charac-
teristics of consensus which could be uniquely designed for
different applications. To be more specific, the virtual life
in metaverse is the mapping of the real life in the physi-
cal world, and the data stored in the blockchain can ensure
the authenticity and verifiability of the data, thus ensuring the
consistency of data changes. Furthermore, secure data storage
could enable participants to engage in the financial market
because the blockchain-based virtual currency could be the
bridge between the virtual items in metaverse and real objects
in the physical world.
3) Virtual Economy System: The metaverse needs to pro-
vide users with a rich interactive experience. An effective and
reliable virtual economic system is the key bridge to ensure
consistency between the virtual world and the real world.
The flow of funds in the system is closely related to virtual
resources (land, goods, etc.). Virtual images, wearable devices,
and virtual items will have interesting potential capital in the
virtual world. The ownership of items will determine the user’s
avatar in the virtual world and help users become real residents
in the metaverse. The digital virtual assets in the traditional
game industry will be estimated to reach 40 billion U.S. dol-
lars each year. Therefore, the virtual economic system in the
metaverse has a huge window of opportunity.
Blockchain has gained widespread popularity in recent
years due to its distributed nature. As an early success-
ful application of the blockchain technology, Bitcoin was
released by a user whose code name is Satoshi Nakamoto.
Since then, the blockchain-based P2P payment system has
attracted widespread attention from academia and industry. By
exploring the impact of the future economic system based
on the blockchain, [36] analyzed how the blockchain will
affect the global economic order. Swan [37] proposed a sim-
ple and efficient virtual economic system model based on
blockchain to promote the impact on the future economic
system. Xu et al. [38] considered the existence and nonexis-
tence of a centralized management platform in the distributed
banking system, so that the corresponding payment system can
be designed according to different application requirements.
However, in a centralized management platform with better
management and control, users privacy may still be exposed
to risks. Sasson et al. [39] proposed a distributed anonymous
payment system based on zero-knowledge proof. In the point-
to-point payment process, the source and destination of the
transaction, and the amount of the transaction are all hidden
in proof. At the same time, the verification and inspection of
the proof are concise and efficient.
Just as Bitcoin and other virtual payment systems ensure
transactions between humans, blockchain can also realize
machine-to-machine (M2M) and IoT payments [37]. More
and more machine interaction research and algorithm pro-
gramming are continuously promoting the economic system
of machine interaction. Miehle et al. [40] proposed an indus-
trial market based on blockchain. The machines in the
system have corresponding identities and accounts, and smart
contract-based solutions are utilized to realize the interaction
and cooperation between machines. Seitz et al. [41] introduced
a distributed market that relies on blockchain in industrial edge
applications to create a transparent environment for system
participants and support the traceability of edge device instal-
lations. Tönnissen and Teuteberg [42] proposed a blockchain-
based order processing scheme. The smart contract-based
solution improves the auditability and automation of machine
interaction in the system. However, there is no overall solu-
tion that can concentrate the business solutions in the industrial
system into a single blockchain-based market.
A summary of typical applications and benefits of
blockchain for the metaverse is depicted in Table II.
C. Challenges and Discussion
Blockchain can provide a promising solution for the data
sharing, storage, and transaction of the metaverse. However,
there are still some urgent challenges to be solved, which are
mainly divided into two aspects: 1) reliability and 2) effec-
tiveness.
Privacy of Users: Although the blockchain-based scheme
uses an addressing scheme based on public and private keys
for anonymization, attackers with strong computing power can
still track the user’s system participation history through a
large amount of network analysis. In addition, due to the
different degrees of openness of the blockchain, the access
mechanism of the blockchain determines the privacy and secu-
rity performance of the users on the chain. Therefore, how to
design a highly secure and reliable blockchain architecture still
requires in-depth research.
Centralization Problem: The consensus mechanism based
on computing power leads to unequal nodes. The miners in
the system accumulate hardware in order to obtain high eco-
nomic returns, which leads to the risk of mining pools with
large computing power that may exceed 51% of the global
computing power. The randomness of blockchain accounting
rights will be greatly threatened, and the security of data will
also face great hidden dangers.
System Robustness: Although the blockchain-based scheme
supports its underlying architecture with cryptographic knowl-
edge, there are still weak links in the privacy and security
of the entire network. Once the network is attacked, can the
system reliably resist the attack? And, whether it can recover
quickly and steadily after being attacked is still a research
challenge in the blockchain system.
Audit Complexity: The various operations of users in the
metaverse need to go through a lot of inspection and verifi-
cation before they are recorded on the blockchain. However,
in order to protect user privacy and data security, the trans-
parency of data needs to be reduced, which greatly increases
the complexity of transaction auditing.
Efficiency of Blockchain: The demand for low latency in
the metaverse places extremely high requirements on the
design of the blockchain consensus mechanism. In addi-
tion, facing the massive data exchange in the metaverse,
the contradiction between blockchain-based data storage and
efficient verification mechanism is inevitable. How to ensure
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3593
TABLE II
SUMMARY OF TYPICAL APPLICATIONS AND BENEFITS OF BLOCKCHAIN FOR THE METAVERSE
the efficient storage and acquisition of large amounts of data
is a key issue that needs to be optimized for the system.
As a distributed ledger, blockchain requires data trans-
parency to ensure the verifiability of transaction content and
the authenticity of transactions. On the other hand, it is also
necessary to ensure that transparent data cannot expose sensi-
tive information of transactions, that is, to ensure the privacy
of transactions. Therefore, how to reconcile the contradiction
between data transparency and obscurity is also a point that
needs to be paid close attention to in the future metaverse for
massive transactions. Guan et al. [43] proposed an account-
model blockchain to conceal the private information while the
transaction detail could be validated. A dual-balance model is
utilized to hide the key transaction information like account
balance and transaction amounts. Ma et al. [44] proposed
to utilize the noninteractive zero-knowledge (NIZK) com-
bined with the public-key encryption scheme to achieve the
secure account. Thereinto, the NIZK-based model could help
to solve the contradiction problem between the transparency
and privacy because the proof would not reveal any private
information. A mixing scheme proposed by Xiao et al. [45]
solved the problem that a trusted third party is needed to
supervise the transaction. They consider the negotiation pro-
cess between participants to guarantee the transaction details.
Li et al. [46] proposed two schemes which is based on out-
sourcing differential privacy. The preprocessing method and
building blocks are utilized to achieve outsourcing differen-
tial privacy. When multiple evaluators query the transaction
information, a trusted execution environment is used to pro-
cess multiple queries. Aitzhan and Svetinovic [47] combined
the blockchain technology with multisignatures and encrypted
messaging streams to achieve secure energy trading, which
enables the anonymous negotiation.
However, transactions in the metaverse are far more than
just digital currencies. When facing more complex and diverse
transaction information, the issues of information transparency
and privacy will be further exacerbated [48]. Therefore, in
the future, it is still necessary to explore solutions based
on diversification and large-scale transactions to ensure the
security of users’ private information and the reliability of
transaction verification.
In conclusion, while the characteristics of security,
decentralization, immutability, privacy preservation, etc. of
blockchain, there is still room for research in improving
the performance and customization for the application in
metaverse.
IV. NETWORKING TECHNOLOGIES FOR THE METAVERSE
The metaverse needs to realize the connection between
the virtual world and the physical world, allowing users
to experience seamlessly. Therefore, the metaverse requires
high synchronization and low latency, which will rely on
strong network connections and computing power support. In
this section, we will describe network technologies for the
metaverse, including communication network and computing
network.
A. Communication Networks and Applications for the
Metaverse
In order for users to get a good experience, whether
it is accessing large databases, computing offloading, user
interaction and sharing, or connecting between devices, the
metaverse needs to rely on a high synchronization, low-latency
communication network [5], [6]. Therefore, in this section,
we will describe the communication technologies that can be
applied for the metaverse.
1) WiFi: WiFi 6, known as 802.11ax, is the follow-up
protocol of 802.11ac. WiFi 6 adopts 2.4G and 5G dual-
frequency signal output, which, respectively, integrates the
short coverage distance of 5G signal, strong anti-interference,
and long-transmission distance of 2.4G signal. In addition,
WiFi 6 provides downlink and uplink OFDMA, and uplink
MU-multiple-input multiple-output (MIMO). In this mode,
the maximum transmission rate and communication latency
can reach 9.6 Gb/s and 10 ms, which effectively improves
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3594 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
the technical indicators of network latency and communica-
tion efficiency [49], [50], [51]. In April 2020, WiFi 6 was
expanded on the basis of the original frequency band to form
WiFi 6E, thereby providing higher communication efficiency,
greater throughput, and lower latency [52].
With new applications with ultrahigh throughput and
ultralow latency requirements, such as VR and social
networking, the IEEE 802.11 standard has been further
developed to adapt to these new service characteristics. WiFi
7 corresponds to the revised standard IEEE 802.11be, or EHT
(Extremely High Throughput) [53], [54]. WiFi 7 introduces
320-MHz bandwidth, 4096-QAM, MultiRU, multilink opera-
tion, enhanced MU-MIMO, multiAP cooperation, and other
technologies on the basis of WiFi 6, making WiFi 7 provide
a higher data transmission rate and lower latency than WiFi
6. WiFi 7 is expected to support up to 30 Gb/s throughput,
which is about three times that of WiFi 6. In addition, WiFi 7
needs to support VR/AR, cloud gaming, and cloud computing,
which requires a latency of less than 5 ms.
With higher transmission rates, lower latency, and greater
density of networked devices, WiFi 6 and 7 are very suit-
able for indoor wireless networks. The WiFi 6 wireless router
adopts a low-power design with a power consumption range
of 9–12 W, which is suitable for headsets [49]. According to
this idea, Meta launched Oculus Air Link in 2021, allowing
the most popular Oculus Quest series to connect to com-
puters via WiFi instead of wired connections. In addition,
compared with Quest 1 which supports WiFi 5 in 2019, Quest
2 launched in 2020 is equipped with more advanced WiFi 6,
which enables Quest 2 to provide a display update frequency
up to 120 Hz through Oculus Air Link. The bandwidth, update
frequency, and delay requirements of headsets are significantly
higher than those of computers and smartphones. Supporting
WiFi 6/6E/7 access can improve their wireless experience. In
the upcoming new headsets of Meta, Apple, and Sony, the
new models of Meta and Apple support WiFi 6E, and Sony’s
PS 5 VR device supports WiFi 6. According to the analysis
in [55], using multiple interfaces can make WiFi fully sup-
port AR applications. Compared with WiFi 6, the advantages
of WiFi 7 will help the development of immersive AR/VR,
Industrial IoT, interactive telemedicine, wireless gaming, and
other applications.
2) 5G/6G: The metaverse requires high synchronization
and low latency so that users can get a better experience,
which is an important manifestation of the communication
network. Although for Metaverse users who never leave home,
the Internet and WiFi can work well together. However, other
scenarios may require the assistance of a cellular network.
Lampe et al. [56] evaluated highly interactive applications,
such as online and cloud gaming, and showed that 130 ms
is a higher threshold. Currently, VR/AR, cloud gaming and
cloud computing require a latency of less than 5 ms. Therefore,
the existing 4G network cannot afford metaverse applications.
With the deployment of 5G networks, many user-centric appli-
cations have been migrated to the cloud, such as cloud games,
real-time video streaming, or cloud VR [5].
The design goals of 5G are high data rate, low transmis-
sion delay, improved transmission quality, energy saving, cost
reduction, system capacity increase, and large-scale device
connection. The ITU-R M.2083-IMT Vision-Framework and
overall objectives of the future development of IMT for 2020
and beyond, released in 2015, proposed key technical features
and indicator recommendations for 5G (IMT-2020), including
peak data rates (10 Gb/s), user experience data rate, spectrum
efficiency, mobility (500k/h), latency (1–10 ms), connec-
tion density, network energy efficiency, and regional business
capacity. 5G introduces technologies, including network func-
tion virtualization (NFV) and software-defined network (SDN)
at the network infrastructure level, which can flexibly and
quickly satisfy the requirements of high network security and
customization. In addition, the application of MEC can facili-
tate the processing of high-reliability and low-latency services.
5G can be deeply integrated with scenarios, such as smart
cities, ultrahigh-definition video, VR/AR, and IoVs [57], [58],
[59], [60].
However, the 5G network will not be able to provide a fully
automated and intelligent network, and will not be able to sat-
isfy the full immersive experience of the metaverse [61]. As an
extension of the 5G, 6G realizes the deep integration of intelli-
gent applications and networks through ubiquitous, intelligent,
and in-depth connections to meet the needs of humans and
machines for interconnection and intercommunication. From
the perspective of network performance indicators, 6G will
be greatly improved in terms of transmission rate, end-to-end
latency, reliability, connection density, spectrum efficiency, and
network energy efficiency, so as to meet the diverse network
needs of various vertical industries. Compared with 5G, 6G is
expected to increase their respective capabilities by 10–100
times for most technical fields [62], [63], [64]. For exam-
ple, end-to-end latency is less than 1 ms, reliability exceeds
99.99999%, and peak data rate reaches 1 Tbps. In order to
meet more abundant applications and extreme performance
requirements in the future, 6G will be driven by the following
key technologies, such as AI to achieve endogenous intelligent
networks, terahertz communication (THz), wireless optical
communication, ultralarge-scale MIMO, intelligent reflective
surfaces (IRSs), blockchain, and 3-D networking, and dynamic
network slicing. Therefore, 6G can realize applications, such
as truly immersive XR experience, haptic communication,
smart healthcare, and wireless brain–computer interactions,
which is expected to truly meet the metaverse’s requirements
for communication networks [62], [64].
With the commercialization of 5G, users can enjoy play-
ing games on low-configuration devices [65]. In view of
the problems of latency, energy consumption, and high
server pressure in existing cloud games, Zhang et al. [66]
used 5G networks and edge computing to propose a time-
delay superposition method to determine the location of
the data center to ensure load balancing and improve node
performance. Based on the 5G environment, Park et al. [67]
designed a game streaming platform and implemented it using
Android Studio. For VR/AR applications in 5G networks,
in order to achieve low latency, computing outsourcing,
and mobility, Schmoll et al. [68] proposed to use mobile
edge cloud for computing offloading to realize VR games.
Qiao et al. [69] designed a general service-oriented framework
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3595
TABLE III
COMPARISON OF DIFFERENT COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES
for the opportunities and challenges of mobile augmented real-
ity (MAR) in 5G networks to provide a scalable, flexible, and
easy-to-deploy MWAR solution. Unlike 5G, Maier et al. [70]
used the 6G invisible-to-visible (I2V) technology concept to
explore the potential of realizing XR. In particular, I2V can
connect users with people in the metaverse virtual world and
share them with other users.
In addition, the demand for information processing in the
metaverse is growing explosively to realize anytime, anywhere,
diversification, and virtual-real interaction. Therefore, 6G inte-
gration of sensing, communication, and computing is needed
to meet the needs of in-depth perception, massive computing,
and low latency. As a key application of the 6G technology, the
metaverse can perceive the physical world all the time with the
improvement of its perception ability in the future, and realize
the mapping and integration of the physical world and the vir-
tual world under the empowerment of intelligent computing.
The development of integration of sensing, communication,
and computing can continuously lower the technical threshold
of the metaverse and greatly improve the accessibility of the
metaverse.
3) NB-IoT: Narrowband Internet of Things (NB-IoT) is
a low-power wide-area network (LPWAN) radio technol-
ogy standard developed by 3GPP for cellular devices and
services. This specification was frozen in 3GPP Release 13
(LTE Advanced Pro) in June 2016. NB-IoT uses a subset
of the LTE standard, but limits the bandwidth to a sin-
gle narrowband of 200kHz. It uses OFDM modulation for
downlink communication and SC-FDMA for uplink com-
munication. Specifically, NB-IoT has the characteristics of
improving indoor coverage, supporting a large number of low-
throughput devices, low latency sensitivity, low device power
consumption, optimized network architecture, and ultrahigh
cost performance [71], [72], [73], [74]. Compared with Lora,
Bluetooth, and ZigBee, NB-IoT is more suitable for applica-
tion in the metaverse. For example, in the case of the same
base station, NB-IoT can provide 50–100 times the number
of accesses than existing wireless technologies. In the same
frequency band, NB-IoT has a gain of 20 dB over the exist-
ing network, which is equivalent to an increase of 100 times
the capacity of the coverage area. NB-IoT does not need to
rebuild the network, and the radio frequency and antenna are
basically universal [72], [73], [75].
The NB-IoT technology can be widely used for information
collection and wireless monitoring of systems, such as smart
cities and smart homes [75]. In addition, NB-IoT can play
a vital role in the network infrastructure of the metaverse,
providing users with a smooth and realistic interactive expe-
rience through environmental sensing. Khan et al. [76] pro-
vided a case study of a smart city as the epitome of IoT.
Equipped with different types of electronic sensors and equip-
ment, it aims to provide various value-added services to the
administrative departments and citizens. Jung and Jang [77]
developed a shared-use mobility monitoring terminal tech-
nology to form a mobile terminal device in the form of an
IoT sensor platform, providing new services for the metaverse
reality for smart city environmental monitoring. Considering
that various entities in the physical world, such as users
and roads, can be sensed by smart devices (such as IoT
devices and sensors) and digitally replicated in the metaverse.
Han et al. [78] used a set of IoT devices to represent mobile
phone data of virtual service providers, and use hybrid evo-
lutionary dynamics to solve the problem of the metaverse
synchronization.
To summarize the above communication technologies,
a comparison of different communication technologies is
depicted in Table III.
B. Computing Networks and Applications for the Metaverse
Multiple tasks in the metaverse, such as XR, AI, motion
capture, data processing, and content creation, making it have
huge continuous computing requirements. In this section, we
will describe the computing technologies that can be applied
for the metaverse.
1) Cloud Computing: Cloud computing is a computing
paradigm that provides end-users with on-demand services
through computing resource pools (including storage services,
computing resources, etc.). The key services provided by cloud
computing include infrastructure as a service (IAAS), platform
as a service (PAAS), and software as a service (SAAS) [79].
Through the use of the cloud computing technology, massive
amounts of data can be processed in a short period of time,
thereby realizing powerful network services. Cloud computing
deploys applications to the cloud, so users do not need to pay
attention to the calculation and storage details required by the
service. They only need to put forward service requirements
on the user side and accept the service data returned by the
cloud. The specific computing services are completed by the
service provider in the cloud.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3596 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
Presently, the metaverse is in the exploration stage, and
cloud gaming is a form close to the concept of the meta-
verse. In the running mode of cloud games, all games run on
the server side, and the rendered game screen is compressed
and transmitted to the user via the network. Therefore, unlike
terminal games and mobile games, in cloud games, there are
no configuration requirements for the user’s device. Users only
need to connect to the Internet without downloading resources
to local devices to enjoy cloud game services [80], [81].
However, due to the lack of hardware support for user terminal
equipment, in order to ensure user experience, faster cal-
culation speed, larger storage space, and smoother network
conditions are required [82]. In addition, for cloud VR, a
latency of more than 20 ms will degrade the user experience.
When the cloud server supports cloud VR, the physical dis-
tance from the cloud data center will inevitably lead to an
increase in latency [83].
2) Edge Computing: Although cloud computing provides
many services, as the metaverse continues to develop and
mature, requirements for greater bandwidth and lower latency
are put forward for network transmission, and requirements
for computing capacity and efficiency continue to increase.
Therefore, as the amount of data increases, cloud computing
may face communication bottlenecks and cloud computing
services that cannot meet some low-latency applications.
Compared with cloud computing, edge computing is closer
to the user end, thus effectively alleviating the communication
burden and reducing latency [84], [85].
Edge computing transfers computing data, applications, and
services from cloud servers to the edge of the network to pro-
vide users with services closer to them [84], [85], [86]. In
edge computing, services run on devices closer to users, so
they have the characteristics of fast processing, fast response,
and secure data transmission. Second, services are scattered
across multiple edge nodes, which can avoid the impact of a
single point of failure.
Under this trend, edge computing is expected to become an
important support for the metaverse to ensure a smooth experi-
ence for all users. For example, edge computing can effectively
solve the problems of high latency and high bandwidth con-
sumption in cloud games [66]. Edge computing also provides
reliable support for VR, which is the representative technol-
ogy of the metaverse. For example, Kim et al. [87] proposed
a cloud-based VR service deployed on an edge server, which
effectively reduces the total network traffic load by using edge
computing. Similarly, the improvement of network latency
by edge computing has also promoted the popularization of
AR/VR applications [67]. In addition, the edge intelligence
technology is also used to capture and analyze the real world
to realize the immersion of the metaverse [88]. Edge comput-
ing can help users supplement local computing power, improve
processing efficiency, and effectively reduce network delays
and network risks.
3) Computing First Network: As users and devices con-
nected to the metaverse increase, the deployment of edge
computing faces various challenges [84], [90]. The computing
power of a single edge node is limited, and the application
layer cannot accurately grasp the network status in real time.
Due to the lack of coordination, computing tasks may not be
able to be scheduled to the optimal edge nodes. This will cause
long response times and even loss of requests due to the unbal-
anced load of the network and computing nodes. Computing
power is an indispensable core resource for the construction
of. Based on the integration of network and computing, it is
an inevitable trend to form an “end-edge-cloud” multilevel
architecture collaborative deployment.
In order to deal with the problems of edge computing and
cloud computing, computing first network (CFN) is proposed,
which is a new architecture for network computing integra-
tion [91], [92]. CFN enables computing power to be embedded
in the network, forming a dynamic, distributed computing, and
network integration architecture. Specifically, the high-speed
interconnection of “end-edge-cloud” computing power is real-
ized through the communication technology, thereby forming a
multilevel, ubiquitous interconnected computing power system
to meet the computing power requirements of the cloud, edge
side, and end level. That is, the cloud is responsible for large
amounts of complex computing, the edge side is responsi-
ble for simple computing and execution, and the end side is
responsible for ubiquitous computing of perceptual interaction,
as shown in Fig. 3. With ubiquitous network access and effi-
cient and lossless data transmission, users can work together
at any time and anywhere by scheduling nodes in the comput-
ing power network according to task requirements. According
to [89], CFN improves system efficiency by intelligently dis-
tributing the workload of multiple nodes and sharing the
computing resources of multiple nodes to co-process a large
number of requests. Therefore, for a CFN integrating heteroge-
neous resources, computing power evaluation, heterogeneous
resource integration, resource identification, and orchestration
and scheduling should be considered and studied [91], [92].
In order to provide CFN-based public FL services,
Zhao et al. [93] proposed a generic framework of federated
learning platform (FLP) for communication service providers
considering operation and security. Specifically, the authors
discuss generic frameworks and add security domains to
ensure secure service delivery. Some typical application sce-
narios and requirements of CFN are introduced in [89], such
as MR, AR, and CAV. These application scenarios require
multiple edge computing nodes to be connected to each other
to meet user experience. In order to break the boundaries
of each MEC node and form an overall computing resource,
Liu et al. [94] proposed CFN-dyncast, which is a distributed
technology through the corresponding control plane and data
plane to distribute customer demand to the best sites based on
computing load and network status. In addition, the authors
implement the prototype with servers and physical network
devices, and verify that the proposed CFN-dyncast can help
the client get response in a shorten period. Ren et al. [95]
proposed a layered computing architecture in order to pro-
vide a better experience for AR users. The architecture is
composed of user layer, edge layer, and cloud layer. The AR
devices are located at the user layer and is connected to the
edge layer through a wireless link. Through the coordina-
tion of various layers, the architecture can reduce latency and
improve resource efficiency. Similarly, in order to solve the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3597
Fig. 3. CFN and applications for the metaverse.
problem of high latency in the uninstallation of AR applica-
tions, Younis et al. [96] proposed a three-tier architecture that
includes end-users, mobile edge, and cloud, and use the 5G
network to make optimized computing offloading decisions in
this architecture. In particular, the optimal application place-
ment in the MEC-AR layer is found by using mixed-integer
linear programming, thereby reducing energy consumption and
network latency. Tian et al. [92] believed that CFN’s dis-
tributed computing and collaborative optimization of network
resources can effectively support Cloud VR video service. That
is, through the hierarchical offloading of computing tasks, the
cloud computing load is reduced, thereby improving network
resource utilization and user experience.
C. Challenges and Discussion
Differences in Communication and Computing: The cur-
rent technology system, cost, and performance of the network
and computing power are in different paths and are relatively
independent. The unified intelligent scheduling is full of chal-
lenges. Therefore, it is still necessary to break through the
problems in the integration of the two technical architectures
and realize the real integration of computing and network, so
as to provide more efficient, secure and reliable network and
computing services for the metaverse.
Multiparty and Distributed Applications: Currently, appli-
cations involving multiple parties are gradually increasing,
and applications are gradually becoming distributed. However,
compared with centralized applications, the performance of
distributed systems, such as latency, computing power, and
throughput, are not consistent, which poses challenges to
the management, operation, and maintenance of the system.
Therefore, it is necessary to continuously enhance the automa-
tion, self-optimization, and intelligence capabilities of the
network to realize intelligent control and decision making.
Orchestration Management: In the future metaverse, tasks,
and environments are highly complex, and user needs are
flexible, dynamic, and diverse, which pose challenges to the
management, deployment, and application of network and
computing resources. Therefore, it is necessary to integrate
with AI, big data, and other technologies to build an inte-
grated and intelligent orchestration management in network
and computing. In addition, the digital twin platform can be
used to achieve efficient use of resources and provide users
with on-demand services.
Privacy and Security: The network involves multisource and
ubiquitous nodes, and the security and reliability of each node
cannot be guaranteed. In particular, distributing data to vari-
ous computing nodes in the network will face risks, such as
network attacks and data privacy leakage. Therefore, on the
one hand, a feasible solution is to use a distributed training
process such as federated learning to achieve privacy protec-
tion, so that the data is kept locally [97], [98]. On the other
hand, with the help of privacy computing, data labeling, audit
traceability, and other technologies, the effect of integrated
security protection is achieved.
V. BLOCKCHAIN MEETS INTELLIGENT NETWORKING
IN THE METAVERSE
On the one hand, the main features of blockchain, includ-
ing security, transparency, and nontamperability, provide new
opportunities for communication and computing, such as
secure sharing, secure storage, and trusted computing [99].
On the other hand, the blockchain has inherent challenges and
limitations in terms of consensus efficiency, broadcast effi-
ciency, and scalability [106]. Therefore, the two technologies
of blockchain and intelligent networking are combined to work
together on the metaverse to achieve a secure and more effi-
cient ecosystem. As shown in Tables IV and V, the blockchain
can bring security, privacy, and a trusted distributed computing
model to the network; in turn, network performance affects the
efficiency of the blockchain.
A. Blockchain-Enabled Communication
The metaverse has extremely high requirements for commu-
nication networks, and network resource sharing can be used
to cope with the explosive growth of network traffic. However,
considering the cost, security, and selfishness, resource shar-
ing becomes difficult. Fortunately, the blockchain technology
can effectively promote the collaboration and resource sharing
of network entities. Hu et al. [100] combined blockchain and
AI to realize dynamic resource sharing in 6G, improving the
degree of distribution, security, and automation. In response
to the privacy and security issues faced by large-scale spec-
trum sharing in 5G heterogeneous networks, Zhou et al. [101]
developed a blockchain-enabled spectrum sharing architec-
ture to achieve privacy protection, incentive mechanisms, and
spectrum allocation. Weiss et al. [102] proposed a blockchain-
based two-stage secure spectrum intelligence sensing and
shared auction mechanism, which ensures security by upload-
ing auction transaction records to the blockchain. Recently,
blockchain-enabled network slicing begins to gain traction.
Boateng et al. [103] proposed a blockchain-enabled layered
architecture for autonomous resource slicing in 5G RAN.
Togou et al. [104] proposed a network slicing architecture that
supports distributed blockchain, enabling end-to-end real-time
resource leasing and allocation. Wang et al. [105] proposed
a new network architecture for 6G trusted wireless commu-
nication, namely, B-RAN, to realize the deep integration of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3598 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
TABLE IV
FUSION POINT AND BENEFITS OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE
blockchain and wireless communication. The key issues, such
as cross-network collaboration and sharing, and intelligent
group trusted access in B-RAN are discussed in detail.
B. Blockchain-Enabled Computing
The metaverse puts forward extremely high requirements
on computing power. Although the current computing power
architectures, such as cloud computing and edge computing
have been proposed one after another, they still cannot meet
the high experience demand of the metaverse. In addition, the
ensuing privacy and security issues, computing power match-
ing issues, incentive mechanisms, and other issues need to be
resolved. In this case, combining the blockchain technology
can provide a promising solution.
For distributed computing capabilities, due to the difficulty
of calculating the contribution of each node to the network
and the lack of incentive mechanisms, it is difficult to match
demand with computing resources. The blockchain technol-
ogy can solve these problems well. For example, Golem2
is a decentralized computing power network based on the
Ethereum blockchain. Users can buy and sell computing power
through the network, which means that users can complete
tasks that require computing power on other users’ computers
or sell their excess computing power to other users. Golem
automatically matches users’ computing power needs with
providers and provides an Ethereum-based payment method to
reward users who share their computing resources. The iExec
blockchain uses smart contracts to describe the characteristics
of computing resources, such as memory capacity, CPU type,
and disk space, so as to match resource requests and supplies.
Li et al. [107] analyzed the problems of privacy leakage, single
point of failure, and high service fees in the traditional central-
ized crowdsourcing system, and propose a blockchain-based
incentive mechanism system architecture. In detail, a series of
smart contracts are used for the automatic execution of the
system, and the blockchain is used for user reputation man-
agement and incentives. Hu et al. [108] proposed to use the
emerging blockchain technology to protect user privacy and
to achieve a fair incentive mechanism by refining participant
registration, perception task execution, and reward distribution.
Data security, privacy issues, and previous lack of trust
among users are the keys to hindering the implementation
of distributed computing. The application of blockchain can
2https://www.golem.network/#the-network
form a secure distributed mechanism. Alcaraz et al. [109]
proposed a blockchain-based architecture to implement entity
management in the smart grid and secure connections between
key resources. Fu et al. [110] used blockchain to implement
vehicle collaborative computing architecture to deal with the
existence of malicious users. In addition, federated learning
is an important method to protect privacy in distributed com-
puting [111]. However, research shows that federated learning
will still be attacked, and there is a risk of privacy exposure.
Mothukuri et al. [112] comprehensively introduced the chal-
lenges faced by federated learning in terms of security and pri-
vacy. Blockchain can provide user privacy guarantees and data
security for data exchange in the FL process. Lu et al. [113]
designed a new model of the digital twin wireless networks
(DTWN) that uses digital twins to alleviate unreliable and
long-distance communications between end-users and edge
servers. In addition, the combination of blockchain and FL
enhances the security of parameters and improves the reli-
ability of user models to achieve secure and efficient edge
intelligence. Weng et al. [115] used a blockchain-based model
to provide FL participants with data confidentiality, compu-
tational auditability, and incentives. In order to improve the
safety and reliability of model parameters, Lu et al. [116]
proposed a hybrid blockchain architecture, which consists
of a permissioned blockchain and a locally directed acyclic
graph (DAG). On this basis, an asynchronous FL solution is
proposed, which ensures the reliability of shared data by inte-
grating the learning model into the blockchain and performing
two-stage verification. Furthermore, Kang et al. [117] intro-
duced reputation to measure the reliability and credibility of
mobile devices, and design FL participant selection schemes
based on reputation. In addition, they use the nontampera-
ble feature of the blockchain to implement secure reputation
management in a distributed manner.
C. Device Coordination
In the future, there are many devices that can be con-
nected to the metaverse, such as computers, mobile phones,
and IoT devices, all of which can perform computing tasks and
make joint decisions [118]. In this case, the interaction of a
large number of different devices provides more opportunities
for untrusted devices and cyber attacks. For example, some
terminal devices and edge systems are inadequately protected
and vulnerable to attacks and tampering. When the data in the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3599
TABLE V
TYPICAL RESEARCHES OF THE INTEGRATION OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING
device is tampered with, it will adversely affect the decision
making of the entire system. Security experts can turn off these
harmful programs and compromised devices by locating the
centralized control center. However, while satisfying security,
for the metaverse, the delay, and availability of services, as
well as the difficulty of adapting to complex environments and
monitoring are also worth considering. Therefore, blockchain
can be applied to the management and coordination of network
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3600 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
and network devices, whose distributed feature allows greater
scalability and improves robustness by eliminating single
points of failure [106], [119].
Aiming at the security issues of heterogeneous devices in
the network, Gong et al. [120] proposed a device manage-
ment architecture based on the blockchain. Specifically, the
architecture provides differentiated management and firmware
update mechanisms based on device performance and require-
ments, thereby optimizing network and device resources at
the same time. In addition, the use of blockchain and smart
contracts for equipment management history and firmware
transmission ensures the safety, integrity, and auditability of
each device. Similarly, in order to realize the security and
correctness of the interoperability and communication of IoT
devices, Lee et al. [121] proposed a firmware upgrade plan
for embedded devices based on the blockchain technology.
By requesting firmware updates from nodes in the blockchain
network, the device can securely check the firmware version,
verify the correctness of the firmware, and download the lat-
est embedded device firmware without being tampered with.
Lee et al. [122] used blockchain to spread software update
patches in the IoT environment and deploy smart contracts
to automatically realize the incentives for successful patch
transmission.
In response to the problem of identity verification and user
trust in the IoT system, Mohanta et al. [123] proved that the
application of the blockchain technology can track, identify,
and verify user information at any time in a decentralized man-
ner. With the help of the blockchain technology and smart
contracts, trust in IoT applications can be established between
all entities. Koštál et al. [124] used the nontamperable fea-
ture of the blockchain to manage and monitor equipment to
improve the security and efficiency of network maintenance.
By storing device configuration files in the blockchain, secure
distributed management and easy recovery after accidents can
be realized.
D. Efficient Consensus and Broadcast
Network performance will have an impact on the consen-
sus efficiency of the blockchain and the efficiency of block
broadcasting. Researchers have separately studied the influ-
ence of network delay on the rate of blockchain convergence,
blockchain security, transaction throughput, and other propor-
tions [125], [126], [127]. In theory, when there is infinite
bandwidth, infinitely small network delay, and infinitely strong
computing power, the efficiency of consensus and transaction
per second (TPS) in the blockchain system can be infinitely
high. However, in reality, most users have limited resources
and capabilities. Therefore, improving the blockchain consen-
sus and broadcasting efficiency through the optimization of
network performance is a direction worth studying.
For example, the communication between blockchain nodes
has always been a difficult technical problem to solve.
Compared with 4G networks, 5G networks have wide cov-
erage, high data and information transmission rates, low com-
munication delays, and support for massive connections [128].
Therefore, the combination with the blockchain can greatly
increase the end-to-end communication rate and achieve faster
transaction processing speed while maintaining the degree of
decentralization of the blockchain. Croman et al. [129] ana-
lyzed how Bitcoin restricts P2P networks to support higher
throughput and lower latency. The result shows that Bitcoin
cannot make full use of network bandwidth and needs to
optimize the network topology to reduce the network latency
of the blockchain. In order to realize the fast and reliable
broadcasting of the blockchain, Hao et al. [130] considered the
transmission rate and reliability at the same time, and establish
a trust-enhanced blockchain Peer-to-Peer (P2P) topology. This
topology can speed up the transmission rate while maintaining
transmission reliability, and at the same time adopt an effec-
tive node deactivation detection method to reduce network
load. Hao et al. [131] proposed BlockP2P, which is a novel
and optimized design that can accelerate broadcast efficiency
while retaining security. Al-Musharaf et al. [132] improved the
topology of the peer-to-peer blockchain structure to a decen-
tralized topology (structured topology in a cluster) to reduce
consensus time and improve network scalability.
E. Optimize Blockchain Scalability
For blockchain systems, the three characteristics of decen-
tralization, security, and scalability need to be combined.
Among them, scalability refers to the ability of the blockchain
system to process transaction information, which largely
depends on transaction processing performance, that is, the
TPS. With the significant increase in the number of transac-
tions, scalability is the biggest obstacle that today’s blockchain
systems cannot be adapted to practical application scenarios
(such as Bitcoin) [133]. The main reason for this result is that
each transaction must be agreed on all nodes and the cost of
each node’s participation in the blockchain system. For the
metaverse, there are a large number of user and service needs.
In addition, the network changes dynamically and transactions
are updated rapidly. Therefore, the scalability problem needs
to be well resolved.
Presently, the mainstream ways to improve the scalability
of the blockchain (mainly to improve the TPS) are rough as
follows: changing the consensus protocol, replacing the DAG
network, adopting the cross-chain technology, and adopting
the sharding technology [134]. For the consensus mecha-
nism, in addition to Proof-of-Work (PoW) used by the BTC
system, there are Proof-of-Stake (PoS), practical Byzantine
fault tolerance (PBFT), and various improved versions. These
consensus mechanisms are all to improve the deficiencies
of PoW, but they also weigh and compromise in different
aspects [135], [136]. Since the blockchain is a chain struc-
ture, using DAG can change the structure to a net type.
In this structure, each transaction is connected to multiple
other transactions, thereby improving the overall verification
efficiency [137]. Cross-chain is divided into multichain and
side-chain, which uses multiple chains to conduct transactions
in parallel. Compared with a single chain, TPS is bound to
increase. However, as the transaction volume increases, the
demand for cross-chain data intercommunication will increase
at any time, which will greatly increase the difficulty of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3601
management [138]. The sharding technology is to publish
each shard after each transaction block is decomposed to the
blockchain network, and each shard is in a parallel state so
that each node does not have to download all transaction
data, thereby greatly improving the processing speed of the
blockchain system [139], [140].
The network technology can be used to optimize the scal-
ability and robustness of the blockchain. For example, a
distributed computing network architecture can use multiparty
computing power and storage resources to enhance scalabil-
ity. When the transaction volume increases, the AI technology
can be used to increase the block creation rate to increase
throughput. As mentioned in the survey on blockchain and
edge computing, Yang et al. [141] thought that the integration
of blockchain and edge computing into one system can enable
reliable access and control of the network, storage, and com-
putation distributed at the edges. Guo et al. [142] also applied
edge computing in blockchain edge nodes and propose dis-
tributed and trusted authentication system based on blockchain
and edge computing, aiming to improve authentication effi-
ciency, the caching strategy based on edge computing performs
well in terms of average delay and hit ratio. Qu et al. [143]
developed a decentralized paradigm for big data-driven cogni-
tive computing (D2C), using federated learning and blockchain
jointly. The blockchain-enabled federated learning helps quick
convergence with advanced verifications and member selec-
tions, so the robustness of the system is improved. The
BlockTDM scheme proposed in [144] provides a general,
flexible, and configurable blockchain-based paradigm for
trusted data management with tamper resistance, which is
suitable for edge computing with high-level security and
creditability.
F. Challenges and Discussion
Large-Scale Distributed Computing: The existing
blockchain structure determines that the amount of cal-
culations it can make and the nodes that can be allowed
to participate are limited, so it is full of challenges to
support large-scale distributed computing and application
scenarios. The vision of mobilizing computing power of any
scale according to demand in an ideal distributed comput-
ing system is restricted by the scalability of the blockchain.
Therefore, cross-chain structure, network technology, resource
optimization, and other aspects are worth studying, so as to
further make full use of distributed computing power.
Big Data Analysis: The combination of blockchain and
intelligent networking can provide new opportunities for data
security analysis and storage. However, on the one hand, dif-
ferent applications have different data requirements, and how
to achieve multitask parallel processing is a challenge. In addi-
tion, in practice, the data in the network may be unlabeled or
mislabeled, which is a challenge for the processing of this
type of raw data. Therefore, semi-supervised learning and
collaborative learning between devices are possible solutions.
Resource Optimization: In order to provide on-demand
services to users in the metaverse, communication resources,
computing resources, and storage resources need to be
Fig. 4. Some use cases of the metaverse in social: (a) “ASTRONOMICAL”
virtual concert in “Fortnite”3; (b) Horizon Workrooms platform [145];
(c) Virtual graduation ceremony of Communication University of China5;
(d) CUHKSZ Metaverse [2]; (e) ICLR 2020 virtual meeting scenario4;
(f) Animal Crossing AI workshop.6
allocated and scheduled reasonably. Especially after joining
the blockchain system, how to design an effective coordination
mechanism, consensus mechanism, and incentive mechanism
to optimize limited resources is an important research question.
In addition, in an insecure and complex network environment,
it is necessary to balance the relationship between privacy
assurance and system performance.
VI. APPLICATIONS OF THE METAVERSE
The development of technology has enabled the metaverse
to be applied in various fields. In order to bridge the gap
between academia and industry, in this section, we will focus
on the application of the metaverse in games, social platforms,
transportation, and industrial IoT. A summary of applications
areas of the metaverse is depicted in Table VI.
A. Games and Social Applications
The metaverse has many related application scenarios, such
as XR and other applications that can enhance the immersive
experience. Relatively speaking, the mature development of
metaverse is games and social platforms, as shown in Fig. 4.
Games: As introduced in Section II-A, since the concept
of the virtual world was put forward, with the update of
technology, the development of metaverse games has gone
through different stages so far. For example, the early text-
based interactive games, such as Dungeon and Dragon, and
Colossal Cave Adventure; virtual open worlds, such as Web
World, Worlds Inc., and ActiveWorlds; massive multiplayer
online video games, such as Second Life, Minecraft, and
Fortnite; and the relatively new decentralized virtual world
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3602 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
TABLE VI
SUMMARY OF APPLICATIONS AREAS OF THE METAVERSE
that uses the blockchain technology, such as Cryptovoxels and
Decentraland. In addition, the metaverse with games as its car-
rier has developed rapidly, and the boundaries of games have
continued to expand, forming a new ecology.
Entertainment and Virtual Office: Due to the catalysis of
the COVID-19 epidemic, the “ASTRONOMICAL” virtual con-
cert3 held by American rapper Travis Scott in “Fortnite”
attracted more than 12 million audiences, which brings players
to fantasy scenarios, such as deep sea and space. In addition,
the online office has gradually become a trend, breaking the
geographical restriction of people going to work. Unlike tele-
phone conferences and video conferences, the metaverse can
be able to enhance the experience of online office. In August
2021, Facebook launched a public beta version of the Horizon
Workrooms platform. Using Oculus Quest 2 devices to log in,
people working from home can participate in meetings virtu-
ally and enjoy the feeling of being in the same room. At the
same time, users who do not wear AR/VR devices can join
through video calls. The panel of the conference room can
be connected to the user’s computer screen in real time for
display [145].
Education and Academic: In addition, academia and edu-
cation industry are also worth looking forward to [6]. In [2],
the Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen (CUHKSZ)
Metaverse is introduced. It is a blockchain-driven system used
to provide students with an interactive metaverse, that is,
behaviors of students in the virtual or physical world can influ-
ence each other. As a cross-platform system, users can use
smartphones, computers, and browser-based cloud streaming
to connect to CUHKSZ Metaverse. In addition, interaction,
content creation, and ecosystem are realized through location
reporting, sensors, AI, and blockchain technology. Due to the
epidemic, many academic conferences are held online. For
3https://www.npr.org/sections/coronavirus-live-updates/2020/04/24/8436
31981/travis-scotts-fortnite-event-draws-record-audience
example, the ICLR 2020 has a Pokemon-style virtual envi-
ronment “ICLR Town.”4 The image of participants in this
environment is almost synchronized with the video confer-
ence [146], [147]. The online virtual environment has become
the most important way for people to continue to communi-
cate. In order to prevent students from missing the graduation
ceremony due to the epidemic, Communication University of
China rebuilt the campus in the sandbox game “Minecraft,”5
and students gathered together to complete the ceremony with
virtual avatars [148]. Similarly, the AI academic conference
has been moved to the game. For example, ACAI put the
workshop 2020 on Nintendo’s “Animal Crossing.”6 Each part
of the workshop consists of four to five speakers, taking turns
to give lectures, with prearranged seats, podium, and laptops.
In the future, the metaverse will cover many aspects, such
as work, life and entertainment, education, and medical care,
and its applications will be more extensive.
B. Transportation Applications
Currently, the intelligence of the traditional transportation
infrastructure has been effectively improved with the help of
the sensing system. The network provides ubiquitous high-
speed, multinetwork collaborative access services, and com-
puting facilities provide high-speed information processing
capabilities. In addition, vehicles are equipped with sensors,
communication modules, and computing equipment, and real-
ize V2X communication through 4G, 5G, and even more
advanced networks, and finally connect with the metaverse.
Therefore, transportation is one of the important application
scenarios of the metaverse, as shown in Fig. 5.
Transportation Digital Twins: In the metaverse, the loca-
tion and status of transportation participants and infrastructure
can be accurately measured and accurately predicted, so as to
4https://twitter.com/shagunsodhani/status/1255271160620765186
5http://www.china.org.cn/china/2020-07/06/content_76241462.htm
6https://acaiworkshop.com/index.html
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3603
Fig. 5. Some use cases of the metaverse in transportation: (a) WayRay dis-
plays traffic and map information through AR8; (b) ARCAR realizes virtual
information display and driving control [160]; (c) I2V uses 3-D AR to con-
nect the physical world and the virtual world to improve driving safety and
comfort9; (d) Waymo trains, tests, and verifies its automatic driving control
software in Simulation City.7
realize the full-cycle intelligent management and control of the
transportation system. When managing virtual transportation,
we can realize transportation simulation, monitoring, diagno-
sis, prediction, and control through accurate sensing, real-time
data analysis, scientific decision making, and intelligent and
precise execution to solve problems in transportation planning,
design, construction, management, and service processes, so as
to more accurately serving the physical transportation world.
Therefore, the transportation digital twins in the metaverse
are the perfect candidate applications for realizing the trans-
portation brain in the true sense [149]. Marai et al. [150]
introduced the proposed digital twin box (DTB) for road
infrastructure digital twin, which is considered to be a step
toward the realization of a series of essential basic technolo-
gies (e.g., autonomous driving) and services. Specifically, the
DTB includes 360◦ cameras, GPS devices, Internet dongle,
and other IoT devices for environmental measurement. When
many DTBs are deployed on the road, different types of data
can be collected, stored, and analyzed, resulting in a database
that is easy to access and understand. Gao et al. [151] sum-
marized the application of DT in four types of transportation
infrastructure and the characteristics of time dynamic mod-
els. Especially for road traffic, Zhao et al. [152] proposed
an intelligent digital twin-based software-defined vehicular
networks (IDT-SDVNs) to realize intelligent networking, func-
tional prediction verification, and maintenance and diagnosis
of operating networks in the physical world. At the same time,
there are challenges in road traffic prediction, data fusion,
high-speed multisource data fusion, energy consumption, and
security. Kaliske et al. [153] explored the potential of all
substructures of road traffic (vehicles, tires, and roads) and
the steps to achieve a road digital twin. Based on the IoVs,
Gohigh focuses on core features of the metaverse, namely,
collaborative interconnection, digital twins, and interactive
experience, and provides a cooperative vehicle infrastructure
system (CVIS) that integrates “vehicle-road-network-cloud-
map-location.”
Connected and Autonomous Vehicles: As mentioned above,
the metaverse can simulate a world that combines reality and
the virtual, and CAVs can be connected with the metaverse
for testing [154]. The metaverse cleans, integrates, and selects
typical scenarios through the road network monitoring data
accumulated during the operation of intelligent transportation,
generates new samples based on this mixture, and constructs
a dynamic space-time mapping of the real world to form a
high-fidelity mixed VR transformation scenario. Compared
with the traditional test, this mode can accurately test the
real-time environmental sensing of the autonomous driving
system in response to various road events, as well as the rapid
coordination ability of associated decision-making control.
Currently, in addition to real roads and test grounds, several
autonomous driving companies, such as Waymo-Castle [155],
Toyota-60-acre facility [156], and Uber-Almono [157], have
established their virtual cities, allowing their vehicles to be
tested in various environments without being affected by
uncertainty. Specifically, Waymo trains, tests, and validates
its autonomous driving control software in its latest virtual
world, i.e., Simulation City, to ensure that its vehicles can
better respond to all adjustments on open roads.7 As of 2020,
15 billion miles have been simulated, while the actual mileage
is only 20 million kilometers.
In addition, the development of the XR technology pro-
motes the technological innovation of CAVs, and preliminary
research mainly involves navigation, driving behavior, and
safety [158], [159]. In terms of navigation, WayRay8 pro-
poses the metaverse on wheels, which is to achieve a seamless
connection between the virtual world and the physical world
through the information displayed by Holographic AR Display
and display information, such as traffic lights, pedestrian warn-
ings, and route maps to drivers and passengers to improve
driving safety, comfort, and entertainment. Similarly, in [160],
a mixed reality (XR) experience named ARCAR based on a
proof-of-concept headset is introduced, which is implemented
in the 2019 Volvo XC90 for the driver to control a moving
vehicle. The headset contains cameras, a depth sensor, and a
high-end display system, which can realize safe driving under
conventional speed limits, and is used to investigate issues,
such as driver distraction, perception, and safety [161].
Furthermore, the invisible-to-visible (I2V)9 that Nissan is
developing uses a 3-D AR interface to integrate the real
world and the virtual world so that the driver can obtain (see)
information that is invisible. Through Nissan Omni-Sensing,
seamless autonomous mobility (SAM), ProPILOT, and digi-
tal twin technologies, connecting the vehicle to the metaverse
can improve driving safety and comfort. Specifically, the
information collected by on-board sensors is combined with
data from Omni-Sensing Cloud to provide the driver with
enhanced information about the surrounding area, including
predictive information, blind spot obstacles, and potential haz-
ards to improve driving safety. In addition, by connecting to
the metaverse, distant family and friends can appear in the car
as a 3-D AR virtual image [5].
7https://blog.waymo.com/2021/06/SimulationCity.html
8https://wayray.com/#what-we-do
9https://www.nissan-global.com/EN/TECHNOLOGY/OVERVIEW/i2v.html
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3604 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
C. Industrial Internet of Things
Given that the metaverse meets the needs of simulators
and professional virtual spaces for various purposes in games,
social interactions, and transportation, applications in indus-
trial production, medical and other fields have gradually
begun [162], [163]. Fig. 6 depicts some typical use cases.
Industrial Production: The application of metaverse in
industrial production can significantly reduce labor costs,
accelerate production process design, and reduce implemen-
tation time [164], [165]. Specifically, the metaverse allows the
creation of a “cyber–physical system” of digital models of
real events and objects, thereby using the network technol-
ogy to use related systems in all stages of product design,
production, and delivery. For example, BMW’s Regensburg
production line10 can plan their production process more accu-
rately through computer simulation. They can simulate the
physical world and determine ways to improve work efficiency
and safety without having to slow down production through
physical testing and actual modifications.
In addition, Microsoft has implemented digital twin on its
cloud platform, providing a bridge between the virtual world
and the physical world. Boeing and Unilever use it to build
engines and build assembly line simulators to reduce pro-
duction waste, respectively, [166], [167]. Furthermore, digital
twins will be used to simulate processes in 5G systems, WiFi
6, cloud computing, and edge computing to create smart sen-
sors and other systems [165]. For example, Siemens Energy
and Ericsson are using the NVIDIA Omniverse platform to
manage virtual power plants and distribute 5G equipment.
The rapid development of the XR technology and the
interface of human–computer interaction allows the use of dig-
ital twins and the metaverse to train employees [168]. In the
future, the metaverse will be able to get through the entire
life cycle of design, manufacturing, and marketing, as well as
promote the transformation of industrial production.
Medical Treatment: On 25 October 2020, surgeons at the
Children’s Hospital of the University of California, Davis, suc-
cessfully separated a pair of twins with consecutive skulls
after 24 h.11 During the preparation process, a team of 30
experts used the Magic Leap12 technology for VR pre-
views [169], [170]. Specifically, the data from MRI and CT
scans created a 3-D virtual model of the twins’ heads and used
Brainlab’s mixed reality viewer to view them on the Magic
Leap 1 headset. Experts can walk around and simultaneously
observe the AR model located in the center of the room, so
as to deeply study the complex blood vessel network of the
twins’ skulls to determine which veins can be separated to
help them explore the surgical plan.
Similarly, the head-mounted hardware device HoloLens 213
developed by Microsoft can achieve similar functions to the
360◦ XR of Surgical Theatre. That is, the holographic projec-
tion combined with the patient’s own data during the operation
10https://www.wired.com/story/bmw-virtual-factory-ai-hone-assembly-line/
11https://health.ucdavis.edu/children/conjoined-twins/
12https://www.magicleap.com/en-us
13https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/hololens
Fig. 6. Some use cases of the metaverse in IIoT. (a) Metaverse for industrial
production.10 (b) Metaverse for medical treatment.12
can reduce the operation time and the incidence of complica-
tions [171]. In addition, when explaining the procedure to the
patient, the doctor can use interactive 3-D images to explain
everything, so as to better eliminate the patient’s worries.
In addition to these XR-based medical images, the
rapid development of technologies, such as brain-computer
interfaces, AI, IoT, somatosensory devices, and quantum com-
puting will make the metaverse more widely used in the
medical field.
VII. CHALLENGES AND RESEARCH DIRECTIONS
Through the iteration and progress of technology, the
boundary between the physical environment and the virtual
environment will gradually blur and finally achieve a perfect
combination, allowing us to have an immersive experience
in the metaverse. However, increasingly stringent experi-
ence requirements and increased users’ awareness of privacy
pose challenges to supporting technologies of the metaverse.
Therefore, in this section we have summarized the aspects that
require in-depth research and possible solutions.
A. Efficient and Reliable Transmission
The user experience provided by metaverse is highly related
to several typical network indicators, such as bandwidth,
latency, and reliability. For example, the social nature of meta-
verse means that it has strict requirements on latency and
reliability, because users expect a smooth and synchronized
experience. In addition, the mobility of users, the diversity of
sensing devices, and a large amount of data increase the chal-
lenges to the network. Therefore, the communication network
is worthy of further development. Moreover, the combination
of 6G and the metaverse is attracting a lot of attention as a
research hotspot. On the one hand, 6G will provide stronger
communication capabilities for the development of the meta-
verse, which will provide a more stable and faster link for the
mapping between the virtual world and the physical world in
the metaverse. On the other hand, metaverse will become the
key and even mainstream application scenario of 6G in the
future. In the 6G era, higher access rates, lower access delays,
faster motion speeds, and wider communication coverage will
further promote the development of metaverse. The corre-
sponding communication protocol and resource optimization
need to be studied in depth to satisfy the content transmission.
B. Efficient Processing
In addition to the high requirements for communication
networks, when entering the era of sensing, interconnection,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3605
and intelligence of everything, the differentiated needs of users
and massive innovative applications also put forward new
requirements for computing networks. That is, the require-
ments for computing performance are high, and the demand
for computing power supply is large and diversified. Besides,
the distributed computing network also poses a great challenge
for the performance of blockchain under the circumstance
that massive computing devices run simultaneously. The secu-
rity problem is also the key reason that threats the network
performance at any time. Therefore, end-edge-cloud collabo-
ration and distributed computing need further research. Finally,
the extreme demand for low delay poses a great demand for
the consensus mechanism design for blockchain, which will
be the key factor of quality of real-time users’ experience.
C. Communication-Computing Integration
The current CFN and communication networks have dif-
ferent technical systems and architecture designs and are
relatively independent. Therefore, it is difficult to meet the
computing requirements of the metaverse. In order to pro-
vide better communication and computing services, it is urgent
to establish a unified CFN architecture to achieve unified
measurement, intelligent scheduling, and management of com-
munication and computing networks. On this basis, a series of
cutting-edge technologies, such as computing power routing,
in-network computing (INC), and trusted CFN are worthy of
in-depth research and breakthroughs [172]. In addition, facing
the future of the integrated resources, the relationship between
demand and supply of resources will be further developed.
Specifically, the metaverse, as a dual combination of the phys-
ical world and the virtual world, poses severe challenges to the
demand and invocation of resources. For example, the virtual
world and the physical world are one-to-one mapping, which
requires strong coordination of sensing, communication, and
computing resources. The integrated resources will effectively
solve the metaverse’s demand for multiple resources, thereby
effectively satisfying the scheduling of resources by different
users or systems. However, how to effectively ensure the trace-
ability of resources and prevent potential malicious attacks
under the condition that resources are allocated on demand
and on demand are still key issues that the metaverse needs
to solve, such as malicious resource theft and unfair resource
allocation.
D. Network Infrastructure Construction
The development of front-end applications will be restricted
by infrastructure. For the metaverse, to build a better ecosys-
tem and ensure user experience, further network enhancement
is necessary. In addition, the development of existing equip-
ment, such as mobile phones and computers continue to
integrate better hardware. However, it brings challenges to
equipment costs and technical requirements. Therefore, in
addition to improving the performance of the device itself, how
to get our smart devices out of the shackles is also a direction
worth studying. For example, with the help of edge computing,
cloud computing, and high-speed communication networks,
complex computing tasks can be placed on the server. Finally,
facing the all-scenario requirements of all users, how to keep
the secure interface between the users and the infrastructure is
another concern. For example, the users need to connect the
mataverse by the wireless connection technology. However,
the various centralized or decentralized attacks happen due
to the malicious behaviours like infrastructure compromising,
and the virtual asset should also be protected by softwares and
hardwares under the decentralized network attacks.
E. Software Iteration and Development
In addition to hardware issues, the metaverse still lacks a
large amount of software support. For example, in the cur-
rent popular sandbox games, such as Roblox and Minecraft,
the modeling is not detailed enough. The underlying reason
is that fine production is very strict with performance require-
ments, time periods, and personnel requirements. Therefore,
to build a metaverse, high-quality software support can bring
huge productivity and a better user experience. In this case, we
can use the AI technology to solve the problem, such as using
AI to make basic materials in the virtual world, thereby reduc-
ing personnel input. In addition, after users and designers carry
out creative designs, use AI to realize complex constructions.
For example, in [2], untrained users can use editing tools based
on the AI technology to assist the creative process. In addi-
tion, the software compatibility shall be securely stored in the
blockchain to ensure users’ on-demand access. Also, the barri-
ers between different blockchains should be reasonably broken
to ensure the secure acquisition and storage of information in
order to achieve the effective information exchange between
softwares by one certificate.
F. Security and Privacy
In addition to network technology, application innovation,
and portable equipment, privacy security is a huge risk lurk-
ing in the metaverse. First, in order to provide users with a
richer, more realistic, and stable experience, the metaverse is
bound to collect network, user, and environmental data. In
addition, it is difficult to trace the source of malicious behav-
ior in the network, and trust risks and security problems are
frequent. Due to more detailed tracking of users, the attack
surface in the metaverse will expand, raising the security and
privacy challenges to multiple dimensions. Furthermore, the
application of XR also provides richer intrusion and attack
opportunities. For example, an attacker can create an identi-
cal replica in the metaverse based on the user’s access history
and data. Blockchain, AI, encryption algorithms, and protocols
require more in-depth research to implement identity manage-
ment, trust systems, and security monitoring systems to meet
the needs of future Metaverse applications. In particular, it
should focus on preventing potential attacks, such as DDoS
and IP tracking in the decentralized metaverse, in order to
enhance users’ confidence in participating and ensure financial
and information security.
VIII. CONCLUSION
In addition to the requirements for equipment, the con-
struction of metaverse requires secure, reliable, and high-
synchronization data transmission and processing, thus posing
challenges to the development of secure intelligent networking
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3606 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
for the metaverse. In response to the continuous communi-
cation and computing requirements and security challenges
faced in the evolution of metaverse, we have surveyed
the cutting-edge achievements of blockchain and intelligent
networking in the metaverse. In order to realize the fusion
and interaction of virtual and physical worlds, the metaverse
requires the network to be authentic and credible. Therefore,
we have explored how the combination of blockchain and
intelligent networking can benefit the metaverse, including
distributed computing, network, and equipment management,
and blockchain optimization, aiming to bridge the physical
and virtual worlds, thus forming a more credible, secure, and
efficient ecosystem to provide users with an immersive experi-
ence. In addition, we have discussed the current challenges and
future research directions, such as communication-computing
integration, infrastructure, security, and privacy, and thus can
provide a reference for researchers’ future work.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Joshua, “Information bodies: Computational anxiety in Neal
Stephenson’s snow crash,” Interdiscipl. Literary Stud., vol. 19, no. 1,
pp. 17–47, 2017.
[2] H. Duan, J. Li, S. Fan, Z. Lin, X. Wu, and W. Cai, “Metaverse for
social good: A university campus prototype,” 2021, arXiv:2108.08985.
[3] T. Winters, The Metaverse: Prepare Now for the Next Big Thing!
Paperback. Chicago, IL, USA: Independently Publ., Aug. 2021.
[4] J. D. N. Dionisio, W. G. Burns, III, and R. Gilbert, “3D virtual
worlds and the metaverse: Current status and future possibilities,” ACM
Comput. Surv., vol. 45, no. 3, pp. 1–38, Jul. 2013.
[5] L.-H. Lee et al., “All one needs to know about metaverse: A complete
survey on technological singularity, virtual ecosystem, and research
agenda,” 2021, arXiv:2110.05352.
[6] H. Ning et al., “A survey on metaverse: The state-of-the-art, technolo-
gies, applications, and challenges,” 2021, arXiv:2111.09673.
[7] L. U. Khan, Z. Han, D. Niyato, E. Hossain, and C. S. Hong,
“Metaverse for wireless systems: Vision, enablers, architecture, and
future directions,” 2022, arXiv:2207.00413.
[8] B. Falchuk, S. Loeb, and R. Neff, “The social metaverse: Battle
for privacy,” IEEE Technol. Soc. Mag., vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 52–61,
Jun. 2018.
[9] T. R. Gadekallu et al., “Blockchain for the metaverse: A review,” 2022,
arXiv:2203.09738.
[10] Q. Yang, Y. Zhao, H. Huang, Z. Xiong, J. Kang, and Z. Zheng, “Fusing
blockchain and AI with metaverse: A survey,” 2022, arXiv:2201.03201.
[11] Q. Zhu, K. Xiang, and S. Hu, “Design an immersive interactive
museum in second life,” in Proc. 2nd Workshop Digit. Media Appl.
Museum Heritages (DMAMH), 2007, pp. 264–267.
[12] A.-R. Asadi and R. Hemadi, “Understanding virtual currencies in video
games: A review,” in Proc. 2nd Nat. 1st Int. Digit. Games Res. Conf.
Trends Technol. Appl. (DGRC), 2018, pp. 109–117.
[13] R. Shea et al., “Location-based augmented reality with pervasive smart-
phone sensors: Inside and beyond pokemon go!” IEEE Access, vol. 5,
pp. 9619–9631, 2017.
[14] L. Kexin, Q. Yi, S. Xiaoou, and L. Yan, “Future education trend
learned from the Covid-19 pandemic: Take «artificial intelligence»
online course as an example,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Artif. Intell. Educ.
(ICAIE), 2020, pp. 108–111.
[15] M. Ball. “The metaverse: What it is, where to find it, and who will
build it.” Jan. 2020. [Online]. Available: https://www.matthewball.vc/
all/themetaverse
[16] J. Radoff. “The metaverse value-chain.” [EB/OL]. Accessed: Apr. 7,
2021. [Online]. Available: https://medium.com/building-the-metaverse/
the-metaverse-value-chain-afcf9e09e3a7
[17] S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,
Decentralized Bus. Rev., Seoul, South Korea, 2008, Art. no. 21260.
[18] C. Berg, S. Davidson, and J. Potts, Understanding the Blockchain
Economy: An Introduction to Institutional Cryptoeconomics.
Cheltenham, U.K.: Edward Elgar Publ., 2019.
[19] R. Huo et al., “A comprehensive survey on blockchain in industrial
Internet of Things: Motivations, research progresses, and future chal-
lenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 88–122, 1st
Quart., 2022.
[20] A. Asheralieva and D. Niyato, “Throughput-efficient Lagrange coded
private blockchain for secured IoT systems,” IEEE Internet Things J.,
vol. 8, no. 19, pp. 14874–14895, Oct. 2021.
[21] X. Sun, F. R. Yu, P. Zhang, Z. Sun, W. Xie, and X. Peng, “A survey
on zero-knowledge proof in blockchain,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35, no. 4,
pp. 198–205, Jul./Aug. 2021.
[22] X. Zhang and X. Chen, “Data security sharing and storage based on a
consortium blockchain in a vehicular ad-hoc network,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 58241–58254, 2019.
[23] Z. Li, H. Wu, L. H. Lao, S. Guo, Y. Yang, and B. Xiao, “Pistis: Issuing
trusted and authorized certificates with distributed ledger and TEE,”
IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 33, no. 7, pp. 1636–1649,
Jul. 2022.
[24] A. Asheralieva and D. Niyato, “Learning-based mobile edge computing
resource management to support public blockchain networks,” IEEE
Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 1092–1109, Mar. 2021.
[25] P. Wang et al., “Smart contract-based negotiation for adaptive QoS-
aware service composition,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst.,
vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 1403–1420, Jun. 2019.
[26] Y. Gao, W. Wu, P. Si, Z. Yang, and F. R. Yu, “B-ReST: Blockchain-
enabled resource sharing and transactions in fog computing,” IEEE
Wireless Commun., vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 172–180, Apr. 2021.
[27] R. Doku, D. B. Rawat, and C. Liu, “On the blockchain-based decen-
tralized data sharing for event based encryption to combat adversarial
attacks,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 1033–1043,
Apr./Jun. 2021.
[28] D. Zhang, F. R. Yu, and R. Yang, “Blockchain-based multi-access edge
computing for future vehicular networks: A deep compressed neural
network approach,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 8,
pp. 12161–12175, Aug. 2022.
[29] L. Liu et al., “Blockchain-enabled secure data sharing scheme in
mobile-edge computing: An asynchronous advantage actor–critic learn-
ing approach,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2342–2353,
Feb. 2021.
[30] J. Cui, F. Ouyang, Z. Ying, L. Wei, and H. Zhong, “Secure and efficient
data sharing among vehicles based on consortium blockchain,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 7, pp. 8857–8867, Jul. 2022.
[31] Y. Yin, Y. Li, B. Ye, T. Liang, and Y. Li, “A blockchain-based incre-
mental update supported data storage system for intelligent vehicles,”
IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 70, no. 5, pp. 4880–4893, May 2021.
[32] X. Chen, K. Zhang, X. Liang, W. Qiu, Z. Zhang, and D. Tu,
“HyperBSA: A high-performance consortium blockchain storage archi-
tecture for massive data,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 178402–178413,
2020.
[33] R. Li, T. Song, B. Mei, H. Li, X. Cheng, and L. Sun, “Blockchain
for large-scale Internet of Things data storage and protection,” IEEE
Trans. Service Comput., vol. 12, no. 5, pp. 762–771, Sep./Oct. 2019.
[34] S. K. Dwivedi, R. Amin, and S. Vollala, “Blockchain-based secured
IPFS-enable event storage technique with authentication proto-
col in VANET,” IEEE/CAA J. Automatica Sinica, vol. 8, no. 12,
pp. 1913–1922, Dec. 2021.
[35] J. Benet, “IPFS-content addressed, versioned, P2P file system,” 2014,
arXiv:1407.3561.
[36] P. Vigna and M. J. Casey, The Age of Cryptocurrency: How Bitcoin and
the Blockchain Are Challenging The Global Economic Order. London,
U.K.: Macmillan, 2016.
[37] M. Swan, Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy. Sebastopol, CA,
USA: OReilly Media, Inc., 2015.
[38] L. Xu et al., “Supporting blockchain-based cryptocurrency mobile pay-
ment with smart devices,” IEEE Consum. Electron. Mag., vol. 9, no. 2,
pp. 26–33, Mar. 2020.
[39] E. B. Sasson et al., “Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous pay-
ments from Bitcoin,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Security Privacy, 2014,
pp. 459–474.
[40] D. Miehle, M. M. Meyer, A. Luckow, B. Bruegge, and M. Essig,
“Toward a decentralized marketplace for self-maintaining machines,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain (Blockchain), 2019, pp. 431–438.
[41] A. Seitz, D. Henze, D. Miehle, B. Bruegge, J. Nickles, and
M. Sauer, “Fog computing as enabler for blockchain-based IIOT App
marketplaces—A case study,” in Proc. 5th Int. Conf. Internet Things
Syst. Manag. Security, 2018, pp. 182–188.
[42] S. Tönnissen and F. Teuteberg, “Using blockchain technology for
business processes in purchasing—Concept and case study-based evi-
dence,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Bus. Inf. Syst., 2018, pp. 253–264.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3607
[43] Z. Guan, Z. Wan, Y. Yang, Y. Zhou, and B. Huang, “BlockMaze: An
efficient privacy-preserving account-model blockchain based on zk-
SNARKs,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 19, no. 3,
pp. 1446–1463, May/Jun. 2022.
[44] S. Ma, Y. Deng, D. He, J. Zhang, and X. Xie, “An efficient
NIZK scheme for privacy-preserving transactions over account-model
blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18, no. 2,
pp. 641–651, Mar./Apr. 2021.
[45] R. Xiao, W. Ren, T. Zhu, and K.-K. R. Choo, “A mixing scheme
using a decentralized signature protocol for privacy protection in bit-
coin blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18,
no. 4, pp. 1793–1803, Jul./Aug. 2021.
[46] J. Li et al., “Efficient and secure outsourcing of differentially private
data publishing with multiple evaluators,” IEEE Trans. Dependable
Secure Comput., vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 67–76, Jan./Feb. 2022.
[47] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, “Security and privacy in decentralized
energy trading through multi-signatures, blockchain and anonymous
messaging streams,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 15,
no. 5, pp. 840–852, Sep./Oct. 2018.
[48] J. Li, D. Niyato, C. S. Hong, K.-J. Park, L. Wang, and Z. Han,
“Cyber insurance design for validator rotation in sharded blockchain
networks: A hierarchical game-based approach,” IEEE Trans. Netw.
Service Manag., vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 3092–3106, Sep. 2021.
[49] C. Min and Z. Jinhao, “The application of WiFi 6 technology in under-
ground mine,” in Proc. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci., vol. 687,
2021, Art. no. 12153.
[50] A. Karakoç, M. Ş. Kuran, and H. B. Yilmaz, “More WiFi for every-
one: Increasing spectral efficiency in WiFi6 networks using OBSS/PD
mechanism,” 2021, arXiv:2108.13909.
[51] IEEE 802.11ac Task Group, IEEE Standard for Information
Eechnology Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between
Systemslocal and Metropolitan Area Networks Specific Requirements
Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical
Layer (PHY) Specifications Amendment 4: Enhancements for Very High
Throughput for Operation in Bands Below 6 Ghz, IEEE Standard
802.11ac-2013, p. 1425, 2013.
[52] IEEE 802.11ax Task Group, IEEE Standard for Information
Eechnology Telecommunications and Information Exchange Between
Systemslocal and Metropolitan Area Networks Specific Requirements
Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical
Layer (PHY) Specifications Amendment 1: Enhancements for High-
Efficiency WLAN, IEEE Standard 802.11ax-2021, p. 1767, 2021.
[53] C. Deng et al., “IEEE 802.11be Wi-Fi 7: New challenges and oppor-
tunities,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 2136–2166,
4th Quart., 2020.
[54] A. Garcia-Rodriguez, D. López-Pérez, L. Galati-Giordano, and
G. Geraci, “IEEE 802.11be: Wi-Fi 7 strikes back,” IEEE Commun.
Mag., vol. 59, no. 4, pp. 102–108, Apr. 2021.
[55] H. Zhang, A. Elmokashfi, and P. Mohapatra, “WiFi and multiple
interfaces: Adequate for virtual reality?” in Proc. IEEE 24th Int. Conf.
Parallel Distrib. Syst. (ICPADS), 2018, pp. 220–227.
[56] U. Lampe, Q. Wu, S. Dargutev, R. Hans, A. Miede, and R. Steinmetz,
“Assessing latency in cloud gaming,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Cloud Comput.
Serv. Sci., 2013, pp. 52–68.
[57] M. Shafi et al., “5G: A tutorial overview of standards, trials, challenges,
deployment, and practice,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 35, no. 6,
pp. 1201–1221, Jun. 2017.
[58] J. G. Andrews et al., “What will 5G be?” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun.,
vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 1065–1082, Jun. 2014.
[59] M. S. Elbamby, C. Perfecto, M. Bennis, and K. Doppler, “Toward low-
latency and ultra-reliable virtual reality,” IEEE Netw., vol. 32, no. 2,
pp. 78–84, Mar./Apr. 2018.
[60] P. Lin, Q. Song, F. R. Yu, D. Wang, and L. Guo, “Task offloading for
wireless VR-enabled medical treatment with blockchain security using
collective reinforcement learning,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8,
no. 21, pp. 15749–15761, Nov. 2021.
[61] S. J. Nawaz, S. K. Sharma, S. Wyne, M. N. Patwary, and
M. Asaduzzaman, “Quantum machine learning for 6G communica-
tion networks: State-of-the-art and vision for the future,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 46317–46350, 2019.
[62] M. Z. Chowdhury, M. Shahjalal, S. Ahmed, and Y. M. Jang, “6G wire-
less communication systems: Applications, requirements, technologies,
challenges, and research directions,” IEEE Open J. Commun. Soc.,
vol. 1, pp. 957–975, 2020.
[63] F. Guo, F. R. Yu, H. Zhang, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. M. Leung,
“Enabling massive IoT toward 6G: A comprehensive survey,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 15, pp. 11891–11915, Aug. 2021.
[64] W. Saad, M. Bennis, and M. Chen, “A vision of 6G wireless systems:
Applications, trends, technologies, and open research problems,” IEEE
Netw., vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 134–142, May/Jun. 2020.
[65] J. Park, “Beyond the world’s first commercialization of 5G world’s
best commercialization,” Proc. Korea Electromagn. Eng. Soc., vol. 30,
no. 3, pp. 51–54, 2019.
[66] Y. Zhang and Y. Zhang, “Discussion on key technologies of cloud
game based on 5G and edge computing,” in Proc. IEEE 20th Int. Conf.
Commun. Technol. (ICCT), 2020, pp. 524–527.
[67] J. Park, J. Kim, S. Lee, D. Lim, E. Park, and H. Lim, “Design and
implementation of platforms for game streaming,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Syst. Collab. Big Data Internet Things Security (SysCoBIoTS), 2019,
pp. 1–6.
[68] R.-S. Schmoll, S. Pandi, P. J. Braun, and F. H. P. Fitzek,
“Demonstration of VR/AR offloading to mobile edge cloud for low
latency 5G gaming application,” in Proc. 15th IEEE Annu. Consum.
Commun. Netw. Conf. (CCNC), 2018, pp. 1–3.
[69] X. Qiao, P. Ren, G. Nan, L. Liu, S. Dustdar, and J. Chen, “Mobile
Web augmented reality in 5G and beyond: Challenges, opportunities,
and future directions,” China Commun., vol. 16, no. 9, pp. 141–154,
Sep. 2019.
[70] M. Maier, A. Ebrahimzadeh, S. Rostami, and A. Beniiche, “The
Internet of no things: Making the Internet disappear and ‘see the invis-
ible”’ IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 58, no. 11, pp. 76–82, Nov. 2020.
[71] R. S. Sinha, Y. Wei, and S.-H. Hwang, “A survey on LPWA technology:
LoRa and NB-IoT,” ICT Exp., vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 14–21, 2017.
[72] R. Ratasuk, B. Vejlgaard, N. Mangalvedhe, and A. Ghosh, “NB-IoT
system for M2M communication,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun.
Netw. Conf., 2016, pp. 1–5.
[73] Y. D. Beyene et al., “NB-IoT technology overview and experience from
cloud-RAN implementation,” IEEE Wireless Commun., vol. 24, no. 3,
pp. 26–32, Jun. 2017.
[74] F. Shi et al., “Recent progress on the convergence of the Internet of
Things and artificial intelligence,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 8–15,
Sep./Oct. 2020.
[75] V. Kumar, R. K. Jha, and S. Jain, “NB-IoT security: A survey,” Wireless
Pers. Commun., vol. 113, pp. 2661–2708, 2020.
[76] L. U. Khan, I. Yaqoob, N. H. Tran, S. M. A. Kazmi, T. N. Dang,
and C. S. Hong, “Edge-computing-enabled smart cities: A comprehen-
sive survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 10200–10232,
Oct. 2020.
[77] I. T. Jung and B. J. Jang, “A study on the local particulate matter mon-
itoring technology using shared-use mobilities for metaverse reality,”
J. Korea Multimedia Soc., vol. 24, no. 8, pp. 1138–1148, 2021.
[78] Y. Han, D. Niyato, C. Leung, C. Miao, and D. I. Kim, “A dynamic
resource allocation framework for synchronizing metaverse with IoT
service and data,” 2021, arXiv:2111.00431.
[79] Y. Gong, Z. Ying, and M. Lin, “A survey of cloud computing,” in
Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Green Commun. Netw. (GCN), vol. 225, 2013,
pp. 79–84.
[80] R. Shea, J. Liu, E. C.-H. Ngai, and Y. Cui, “Cloud gaming:
Architecture and performance,” IEEE Netw., vol. 27, no. 4, pp. 16–21,
Jul./Aug. 2013.
[81] I. Slivar, M. Sužnjević, L. Skorin-Kapov, and V. Ilić, “Cloud gaming in
education: Evaluation of multiple game streams in a shared WLAN,”
in Proc. Zooming Innov. Consum. Electron. Int. Conf. (ZINC), 2016,
pp. 62–65.
[82] M. Claypool and C. Kajal, “Latency and player actions in online
games,” Commun. ACM, vol. 49, no. 11, pp. 40–45, 2006.
[83] A. Mehrabi, M. Siekkinen, T. Kämäräinen, and A. Ylä-Jääsk “Multi-tier
CloudVR: Leveraging edge computing in remote rendered virtual real-
ity,” ACM Trans. Multimedia Comput. Commun. Appl., vol. 17, no. 2,
pp. 1–24, 2021.
[84] W. Shi, J. Cao, Q. Zhang, Y. Li, and L. Xu, “Edge computing: Vision
and challenges,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 637–646,
Oct. 2016.
[85] M. Bi, Y. Wang, Z. Cai, and X. Tong, “A privacy-preserving mech-
anism based on local differential privacy in edge computing,” China
Commun., vol. 17, no. 9, pp. 50–65, Sep. 2020.
[86] W. Khan, E. Ahmed, S. Hakak, I. Yaqoob, and A. Ahmed, “Edge com-
puting: A survey,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 97, pp. 219–235,
Aug. 2019.
[87] W.-S. Kim, “Edge computing server deployment technique for cloud
VR-based multi-user metaverse content,” J. Korea Multimedia Soc.,
vol. 24, no. 8, pp. 1090–1100, 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3608 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
[88] W. C. Ng, W. Y. B. Lim, J. S. Ng, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, and C. Miao,
“Unified resource allocation framework for the edge intelligence-
enabled metaverse,” 2021, arXiv:2110.14325.
[89] L. Geng and P. Willis, “Compute first networking (CFN) scenar-
ios and requirements,” IETF RTGWG Working Group, Internet-Draft,
Nov. 2019.
[90] R. Roman, J. Lopez, and M. Mambo, “Mobile edge computing, Fog
et al.: A survey and analysis of security threats and challenges,” Future
Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 78, no. 2, pp. 680–698, 2018.
[91] M. Król, S. Mastorakis, D. Oran, and D. Kutscher, “Compute first
networking: Distributed computing meets ICN,” in Proc. 6th ACM
Conf. Inf. Centric Netw., 2019, pp. 67–77.
[92] L. Tian, M. Yang, and S. Wang, “An overview of compute first
networking,” Int. J. Web Grid Serv., vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 81–97, 2021.
[93] L. Zhao, X. Tang, Z. You, Y. Pang, H. Xue, and L. Zhu, “Operation
and security considerations of federated learning platform based on
compute first network,” in Proc. IEEE/CIC Int. Conf. Commun. China
(ICCC Workshops), 2020, pp. 117–121.
[94] B. Liu, J. Mao, L. Xu, R. Hu, and X. Chen, “CFN-dyncast: Load
balancing the edges via the network,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun.
Netw. Conf. Workshops (WCNCW), 2021, pp. 1–6.
[95] J. Ren, Y. He, G. Huang, G. Yu, Y. Cai, and Z. Zhang, “An edge-
computing based architecture for mobile augmented reality,” IEEE
Netw., vol. 33, no. 4, pp. 162–169, Jul./Aug. 2019.
[96] A. Younis, B. Qiu, and D. Pompili, “Latency-aware hybrid edge cloud
framework for mobile augmented reality applications,” in Proc. 17th
Annu. IEEE Int. Conf. Sens. Commun. Netw. (SECON), 2020, pp. 1–9.
[97] Z. Ji, L. Chen, N. Zhao, Y. Chen, G. Wei, and F. R. Yu, “Computation
offloading for edge-assisted federated learning,” IEEE Trans. Veh.
Technol., vol. 70, no. 9, pp. 9330–9344, Sep. 2021.
[98] Y. Fu, C. Li, F. R. Yu, T. H. Luan, and Y. Zhang, “A selec-
tive federated reinforcement learning strategy for autonomous driv-
ing,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., early access, Nov. 10, 2022,
doi: 10.1109/TITS.2022.3219644.
[99] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. M. Leung, “Blockchain and
machine learning for communications and networking systems,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1392–1431, 2nd Quart.,
2020.
[100] S. Hu, Y.-C. Liang, Z. Xiong, and D. Niyato, “Blockchain and artificial
intelligence for dynamic resource sharing in 6G and beyond,” IEEE
Wireless Commun., vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 145–151, Aug. 2021.
[101] Z. Zhou, X. Chen, Y. Zhang, and S. Mumtaz, “Blockchain-empowered
secure spectrum sharing for 5G heterogeneous networks,” IEEE Netw.,
vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 24–31, Jan./Feb. 2020.
[102] M. B. H. Weiss, K. Werbach, D. C. Sicker, and C. E. C. Bastidas, “On
the application of blockchains to spectrum management,” IEEE Trans.
Cogn. Commun. Netw., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 193–205, Jun. 2019.
[103] G. O. Boateng, D. Ayepah-Mensah, D. M. Doe, A. Mohammed,
G. Sun, and G. Liu, “Blockchain-enabled resource trading and deep
reinforcement learning-based autonomous RAN slicing in 5G,” IEEE
Trans. Netw. Service Manag., vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 216–227, Mar. 2022,
doi: 10.1109/TNSM.2021.3124046.
[104] M. A. Togou et al., “DBNS: A distributed blockchain-enabled network
slicing framework for 5G networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 58,
no. 11, pp. 90–96, Nov. 2020.
[105] J. Wang, X. Ling, Y. Le, Y. Huang, and X. You, “Blockchain enabled
wireless communications: A new paradigm towards 6G,” Nat. Sci. Rev.,
vol. 8, no. 9, p. nwab069, Apr. 2021. [Online]. Available: https://doi.
org/10.1093/nsr/nwab069
[106] T. N. Dinh and M. T. Thai, “AI and blockchain: A disruptive
integration,” Computer, vol. 51, no. 9, pp. 48–53, Sep. 2018.
[107] M. Li et al., “CrowdBC: A blockchain-based decentralized framework
for crowdsourcing,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Comput., vol. 30,
no. 6, pp. 1251–1266, Jun. 2019.
[108] J. Hu, K. Yang, K. Wang, and K. Zhang, “A blockchain-based reward
mechanism for mobile crowdsensing,” IEEE Trans. Comput. Soc. Syst.,
vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 178–191, Feb. 2020.
[109] C. Alcaraz, J. E. Rubio, and J. Lopez, “Blockchain-assisted access
for federated smart grid domains: Coupling and features,” J. Parallel
Distrib. Comput., vol. 144, pp. 124–135, Oct. 2020.
[110] Y. Fu, F. R. Yu, C. Li, T. H. Luan, and Y. Zhang, “Vehicular blockchain-
based collective learning for connected and autonomous vehicles,”
IEEE Wireless Commun., vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 197–203, Apr. 2020.
[111] J. Feng, L. Liu, Q. Pei, and K. Li, “Min–max cost optimization for
efficient hierarchical federated learning in wireless edge networks,”
IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 33, no. 11, pp. 2687–2700,
Nov. 2022.
[112] V. Mothukuri, R. M. Parizi, S. Pouriyeh, Y. Huang, A. Dehghantanha,
and G. Srivastava, “A survey on security and privacy of feder-
ated learning,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 115, pp. 619–640,
Feb. 2021.
[113] Y. Lu, X. Huang, K. Zhang, S. Maharjan, and Y. Zhang, “Low-latency
federated learning and blockchain for edge association in digital twin
empowered 6G networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 7,
pp. 5098–5107, Jul. 2021.
[114] W. Y. B. Lim et al., “Federated learning in mobile edge networks: A
comprehensive survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 3,
pp. 2031–2063, 3rd Quart., 2020.
[115] J. Weng, J. Weng, J. Zhang, M. Li, Y. Zhang, and W. Luo, “DeepChain:
Auditable and privacy-preserving deep learning with blockchain-based
incentive,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18, no. 5,
pp. 2438–2455, 1 Sep./Oct. 2021.
[116] Y. Lu, X. Huang, K. Zhang, S. Maharjan, and Y. Zhang, “Blockchain
empowered asynchronous federated learning for secure data sharing
in Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 4,
pp. 4298–4311, Apr. 2020.
[117] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, S. Xie, and J. Zhang, “Incentive mech-
anism for reliable federated learning: A joint optimization approach
to combining reputation and contract theory,” IEEE Internet Things J.,
vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 10700–10714, Dec. 2019.
[118] E. C. Ferrer, “The blockchain: A new framework for robotic swarm
systems,” in Proc. Future Technol. Conf. (FTC), 2018, pp. 1037–1058.
[119] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “An overview of
blockchain technology: Architecture, consensus, and future trends,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Congr. Big Data (BigData Congress), 2017,
pp. 557–564.
[120] S. Gong, E. Tcydenova, J. Jo, Y. Lee, and J. H. Park, “Blockchain-
based secure device management framework for an Internet of Things
network in a smart city,” Sustainability, vol. 11, no. 14, pp. 1–17,
Jul. 2019.
[121] B. Lee and J.-H. Lee, “Blockchain-based secure firmware update
for embedded devices in an Internet of Things environment,” J.
Supercomput., vol. 73, pp. 1152–1167, Mar. 2017.
[122] J. Lee, “Patch transporter: Incentivized, decentralized software patch
system for WSN and IoT environments,” Sensors, vol. 18, no. 2,
p. 574, 2018.
[123] B. K. Mohanta, S. S. Panda, U. Satapathy, D. Jena, and D. Gountia,
“Trustworthy management in decentralized IoT application using
blockchain,” in Proc. 10th Int. Conf. Comput. Commun. Netw. Technol.
(ICCCNT), 2019, pp. 1–5.
[124] K. Koštál, P. Helebrandt, M. Belluš, M. Ries, and I. Kotuliak,
“Management and monitoring of IoT devices using blockchain,”
Sensors, vol. 19, no. 4, p. 856, 2019.
[125] L. Wan, D. Eyers, and H. Zhang, “Evaluating the impact of network
latency on the safety of blockchain transactions,” in Proc. IEEE Int.
Conf. Blockchain (Blockchain), 2019, pp. 194–201.
[126] A. E. Gencer, S. Basu, I. Eyal, R. van Renesse, and E. G. Sirer,
“Decentralization in Bitcoin and Ethereum networks,” 2018,
arXiv:1801.03998.
[127] C. Decker and R. Wattenhofer, “Information propagation in the Bitcoin
network,” in Proc. IEEE P2P, Sep. 2013, pp. 1–10.
[128] K. Yue et al., “A survey of decentralizing applications via blockchain:
The 5G and beyond perspective,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 2191–2217, 4th Quart., 2021.
[129] K. Croman et al., “On scaling decentralized blockchains,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Financ. Cryptogr. Data Security, 2016, pp. 106–125.
[130] W. Hao et al., “Towards a trust-enhanced blockchain P2P topology
for enabling fast and reliable broadcast,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Service
Manag., vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 904–917, Jun. 2020.
[131] W. Hao et al., “BlockP2P: Enabling fast blockchain broadcast with
scalable peer-to-peer network topology,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Green
Pervasive Cloud Comput., 2019, pp. 223–237.
[132] A. J. Al-Musharaf, S. M. Al-Alak, and H. M. Al-Mashhadi, “Improving
blockchain consensus mechanism via network clusters,” in Proc. 1st
Babylon Int. Conf. Inf. Technol. Sci. (BICITS), 2021, pp. 293–298.
[133] J. Xie, F. R. Yu, T. Huang, R. Xie, J. Liu, and Y. Liu, “A survey
on the scalability of blockchain systems,” IEEE Netw., vol. 33, no. 5,
pp. 166–173, Sep./Oct. 2019.
[134] L. S. Sankar, M. Sindhu, and M. Sethumadhavan, “Survey of consensus
protocols on blockchain applications,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Adv.
Comput. Commun. Syst., 2017, pp. 1–5.
[135] D. Liu, A. Alahmadi, J. Ni, X. Lin, and X. Shen, “Anonymous repu-
tation system for IIoT-enabled retail marketing atop PoS blockchain,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3527–3537, Jun. 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TITS.2022.3219644
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TNSM.2021.3124046
FU et al.: SURVEY OF BLOCKCHAIN AND INTELLIGENT NETWORKING FOR THE METAVERSE 3609
[136] W. Li, C. Feng, L. Zhang, H. Xu, B. Cao, and M. A. Imran, “A scal-
able multi-layer PBFT consensus for blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Parallel
Distrib. Comput. Syst., vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 1146–1160, May 2021.
[137] W. Yang, X. Dai, J. Xiao, and H. Jin, “LDV: A lightweight DAG-based
blockchain for vehicular social networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 69, no. 6, pp. 5749–5759, Jun. 2020.
[138] H. Tian et al., “Enabling cross-chain transactions: A decentralized cryp-
tocurrency exchange protocol,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Forensics Security,
vol. 16, pp. 3928–3941, 2021.
[139] X. Cai et al., “A sharding scheme-based many-objective optimization
algorithm for enhancing security in blockchain-enabled industrial
Internet of Things,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 11,
pp. 7650–7658, Nov. 2021.
[140] J. Yun, Y. Goh, and J.-M. Chung, “DQN-based optimization framework
for secure sharded blockchain systems,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8,
no. 2, pp. 708–722, Jan. 2021.
[141] R. Yang, F. R. Yu, P. Si, Z. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “Integrated blockchain
and edge computing systems: A survey, some research issues and chal-
lenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1508–1532,
2nd Quart., 2019.
[142] S. Guo, X. Hu, S. Guo, X. Qiu, and F. Qi, “Blockchain meets edge com-
puting: A distributed and trusted authentication system,” IEEE Trans.
Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 1972–1983, Mar. 2020.
[143] Y. Qu, S. R. Pokhrel, S. Garg, L. Gao, and Y. Xiang, “A blockchained
federated learning framework for cognitive computing in industry 4.0
networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 2964–2973,
Apr. 2021.
[144] Z. Ma, X. Wang, D. K. Jain, H. Khan, G. Hongmin, and Z. Wang, “A
blockchain-based trusted data management scheme in edge computing,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 2013–2021, Mar. 2020.
[145] J. Gauci et al., “Horizon: Facebook’s open source applied reinforcement
learning platform,” 2018, arXiv:1811.00260.
[146] N. Mikhridinova, A. Badasian, A. Aldaghamin, and C. Wolff,
“Transforming conferences to an online format: Framework and prac-
tices,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Smart Inf. Syst. Technol. (SIST), 2021,
pp. 1–8.
[147] G. M. H. Muñoz, “Collaborative learning: From face-to-face to the
virtual classroom in the COVID-19 era,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Virtual
Campus (JICV), 2020, pp. 1–5.
[148] C. F. Laffan, R. Kozin, J. E. Coleshill, A. Ferworn, M. Stanfield, and
B. Stanfield, “ARAIG and minecraft: A COVID-19 workaround,” in
Proc. IEEE Symp. Comput. Commun. (ISCC), 2021, pp. 1–7.
[149] T. Machl, A. Donaubauer, and T. H. Kolbe, Planning Agricultural Core
Road Networks Based on a Digital Twin of the Cultivated Landscape.
Heidelberg, Germany: Wichmann Verlag, May 2019.
[150] O. E. Marai, T. Taleb, and J. Song, “Roads infrastructure digital twin:
A step toward smarter cities realization,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35, no. 2,
pp. 136–143, Mar./Apr. 2021.
[151] Y. Gao, S. Qian, Z. Li, P. Wang, F. Wang, and Q. He, “Digital twin
and its application in transportation infrastructure,” in Proc. IEEE 1st
Int. Conf. Digit. Twins Parallel Intell. (DTPI), 2021, pp. 298–301.
[152] L. Zhao, G. Han, Z. Li, and L. Shu, “Intelligent digital twin-based
software-defined vehicular networks,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 5,
pp. 178–184, Sep./Oct. 2020.
[153] M. Kaliske, R. Behnke, and I. Wollny, “Vision on a digital twin of the
road-tire-vehicle system for future mobility,” Tire Sci. Technol., vol. 49,
no. 1, pp. 2–18, Jan. 2021.
[154] K. Kuru and W. Khan, “A framework for the synergistic integration
of fully autonomous ground vehicles with smart city,” IEEE Access,
vol. 9, pp. 923–948, 2021.
[155] A. Davies. “Inside the ersatz city where waymo trains its self-driving
cars.” 2017. [Online]. Available: https://www.wired.com/story/google-
waymo-self-driving-car-castle-testing
[156] A. J. Hawkins. “Tesla says autopilot was engaged during fatal model
X crash.” 2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.theverge.com/2018/3/
30/17182824/tesla-model-x-crash-autopilot-statement
[157] D. Muoio. “Uber built a fake city in Pittsburgh with roam-
ing mannequins to test its self-driving cars.” 2017. [Online].
Available: https://www.businessinsider.com/ubers-fake-city-pittsburgh-
self-driving-cars-2017-10?r = US&IR = T
[158] A. Riegler, A. Riener, and C. Holzmann, “A systematic review of virtual
reality applications for automated driving, 2009–2020,” Front. Human
Dyn., vol. 3, p. 48, Aug. 2021.
[159] Y. Fu, C. Li, F. R. Yu, T. H. Luan, and Y. Zhang, “A survey of
driving safety with sensing, vehicular communications, and artificial
intelligence-based collision avoidance,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp.
Syst., vol. 23, no. 7, pp. 6142–6163, Jul. 2022.
[160] F. Ghiurãu, M. Baytas, and C. Wickman, “ARCAR: On-road driving
in mixed reality by volvo cars,” in Proc. 33rd Annu. ACM Symp. User
Interface Softw. Technol., Oct. 2020, pp. 62–64.
[161] C. Wickman and R. Söderberg, “Increased concurrency between indus-
trial and engineering design using CAT technology combined with
virtual reality,” Concurrent Eng., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 7–15, 2003.
[162] H. Fuchs et al., “Augmented reality visualization for laparoscopic
surgery,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Med. Image Comput. Comput.-Assist.
Interv., 1998, pp. 934–943.
[163] P. Rhienmora, K. Gajananan, P. Haddawy, M. N. Dailey, and
S. Suebnukarn, “Augmented reality haptics system for dental surgi-
cal skills training,” in Proc. 17th ACM Symp. Virtual Reality Softw.
Technol., 2010, pp. 97–98.
[164] S. M. Jeon and S. Schuesslbauer, “Digital twin application for pro-
duction optimization,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Ind. Eng. Eng. Manag.
(IEEM), Singapore, 2020, pp. 542–545.
[165] H. X. Nguyen, R. Trestian, D. To, and M. Tatipamula, “Digital twin
for 5G and beyond,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 59, no. 2, pp. 10–15,
Feb. 2021.
[166] D. Lehner et al., “Digital twin platforms: Requirements, capabili-
ties, and future prospects,” IEEE Softw., vol. 39, no. 2, pp. 53–61,
Mar./Apr. 2022, doi: 10.1109/MS.2021.3133795.
[167] C. Kotas, T. Naughton, and N. Imam, “A comparison of Amazon Web
services and microsoft azure cloud platforms for high performance
computin,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Consum. Electron. (ICCE),
Las Vegas, NV, USA, 2018, pp. 1–4.
[168] S. Ke, F. Xiang, Z. Zhang, and Y. Zuo, “A enhanced interaction frame-
work based on VR, AR and MR in digital twin,” Procedia CIRP,
vol. 83, pp. 753–758, Jan. 2019.
[169] J. Holly, C. Bridgewater, and A.-M. Lambert, “The use of virtual reality
as a treatment medium for autonomic dysfunction across three diag-
nostic groups: Case studies,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Virtual Rehabil.
(ICVR), Montreal, QC, Canada, 2017, pp. 1–3.
[170] R. E. M. D. Oliveira and J. C. D. Oliveira, “Virtual reality system for
the treatment of acrophobia,” in Proc. 19th Symp. Virtual Augmented
Reality (SVR), Curitiba, Brazil, 2017, pp. 74–77.
[171] D. Patel and P. Bhalodiya, “3D holographic and interactive artifi-
cial intelligence system,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Smart Syst. Invent.
Technol. (ICSSIT), Tirunelveli, India, 2019, pp. 657–662.
[172] N. Hu, Z. Tian, X. Du, and M. Guizani, “An energy-efficient in-network
computing paradigm for 6G,” IEEE Trans. Green Commun. Netw.,
vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1722–1733, Dec. 2021.
Yuchuan Fu (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree from the School of Telecommunications
Engineering, Xidian University, Xi’an, China, in
2020.
She is currently an Associate Professor with
the State Key Laboratory of ISN, School of
Telecommunication Engineering, Xidian University.
From 2018 to 2019, she was a joint Ph.D. student
with Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada. Her
current research interests include algorithm design
in vehicular networks and autonomous driving.
Changle Li (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in communication and information
system from Xidian University, Xi’an, China, in
2005.
He conducted his postdoctoral research in Canada
and the National Institute of Information and
Communications Technology, Tokyo, Japan, respec-
tively. He had been a Visiting Scholar with the
University of Technology Sydney, Ultimo, NSW,
Australia. He is currently a Professor with the State
Key Laboratory of Integrated Services Networks,
Xidian University. His research interests include intelligent transportation
systems, vehicular networks, mobile ad hoc networks, and wireless sensor
networks.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MS.2021.3133795
3610 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 10, NO. 4, 15 FEBRUARY 2023
F. Richard Yu (Fellow, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree in electrical engineering from The University
of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada, in
2003.
From 2002 to 2006, he was with Ericsson, Lund,
Sweden, and a start-up in California, USA. He
joined Carleton University, Ottawa, ON, Canada, in
2007, where he is currently a Professor. His research
interests include connected/autonomous vehicles,
security, artificial intelligence, blockchain, and wire-
less cyber–physical systems.
Prof. Yu received the IEEE TCGCC Best Journal Paper Award in 2019,
the Distinguished Service Awards in 2016 and 2019, the Outstanding
Leadership Award in 2013, the Carleton Research Achievement Awards in
2012 and 2021, the Ontario Early Researcher Award (formerly, the Premiers
Research Excellence Award) in 2011, the Excellent Contribution Award
at IEEE/IFIP TrustCom’10, the Leadership Opportunity Fund Award from
Canada Foundation of Innovation in 2009, and the Best Paper Awards at IEEE
ICNC’18, VTC’17 Spring, ICC’14, Globecom’12, IEEE/IFIP TrustCom’09,
and International Conference on Networking 05. He serves on the editorial
boards of several journals, including the Co-Editor-in-Chief for Ad Hoc &
Sensor Wireless Networks, a Lead Series Editor for IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS &
TUTORIALS, and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON GREEN COMMUNICATIONS
AND NETWORKING. He has served as the Technical Program Committee
Co-Chair of numerous conferences. He has been named in the Clarivate
Analytics list of “Highly Cited Researchers” in 2019 and 2020. He is an
IEEE Distinguished Lecturer of both Vehicular Technology Society (VTS) and
Communication Society. He is an elected member of the Board of Governors
of the IEEE VTS and Editor-in-Chief for IEEE VTS Mobile World Newsletter.
He is a registered Professional Engineer in the province of Ontario, Canada,
and a Fellow of IET and Engineering Institute of Canada.
Tom H. Luan (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the B.Eng. degree from Xi’an Jiaotong University,
Xi’an, China, in 2004, the M.Phil. degree from
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology,
Hong Kong, in 2007, and the Ph.D. degree from
the University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, Canada,
in 2012.
He is a Professor with the School of Cyber
Engineering, Xidian University, Xi’an. He has
authored/coauthored more than 40 journal papers
and 30 technical papers in conference proceedings,
and awarded one U.S. patent. His research mainly focuses on content distri-
bution and media streaming in vehicular ad hoc networks and peer-to-peer
networking, as well as the protocol design and performance evaluation of
wireless cloud computing and edge computing.
Dr. Luan served as a TPC member for IEEE Globecom, ICC, and
PIMRC and the technical reviewer for multiple IEEE Transactions, including
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, IEEE TRANSACTIONS
ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON WIRELESS
COMMUNICATIONS, and IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS.
Pincan Zhao (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.Eng. degree from the School of
Computer and Communication Engineering, China
University of Petroleum, Beijing, China, in 2019.
He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the
School of Telecommunication Engineering, Xidian
University, Xi’an, China.
His current research interests include mobile
crowdsensing, blockchain technology, and commu-
nication protocol and algorithm design in vehicular
networks.
Sha Liu received the B.Eng. degree from the
College of Information Engineering, Chang’an
University, Xi’an, China, in 2020. She is currently
pursuing the M.Sc. degree with the School of
Telecommunication Engineering, Xidian University,
Xi’an.
Her current research interests include vehi-
cle collision avoidance, federated learning, and
optimization theory in vehicular networks.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:12:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-Condensed-Bold
    /Helvetica-LightOblique
    /HelveticaNeue-Bold
    /HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic
    /HelveticaNeue-Condensed
    /HelveticaNeue-CondensedObl
    /HelveticaNeue-Italic
    /HelveticaNeueLightcon-LightCond
    /HelveticaNeue-MediumCond
    /HelveticaNeue-MediumCondObl
    /HelveticaNeue-Roman
    /HelveticaNeue-ThinCond
    /Helvetica-Oblique
    /HelvetisADF-Bold
    /HelvetisADF-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Bold
    /HelvetisADFCd-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Italic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Regular
    /HelvetisADFEx-Bold
    /HelvetisADFEx-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFEx-Italic
    /HelvetisADFEx-Regular
    /HelvetisADF-Italic
    /HelvetisADF-Regular
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <FEFF005500740069006c006900730065007a00200063006500730020006f007000740069006f006e00730020006100660069006e00200064006500200063007200e900650072002000640065007300200064006f00630075006d0065006e00740073002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002000700072006f00660065007300730069006f006e006e0065006c007300200066006900610062006c0065007300200070006f007500720020006c0061002000760069007300750061006c00690073006100740069006f006e0020006500740020006c00270069006d007000720065007300730069006f006e002e0020004c0065007300200064006f00630075006d0065006e00740073002000500044004600200063007200e900e90073002000700065007500760065006e0074002000ea0074007200650020006f007500760065007200740073002000640061006e00730020004100630072006f006200610074002c002000610069006e00730069002000710075002700410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e0030002000650074002000760065007200730069006f006e007300200075006c007400e90072006900650075007200650073002e>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice