Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration in the Egyptian Banks: A Qualitative Analysis
Challenges and Opportunities 
of Blockchain Integration in the Egyptian 
Banks: A Qualitative Analysis 
Shahinaz Gamal and Mayada M. Aref 
Abstract The purpose of the research is scanning the opportunities and threats of 
implementing blockchain technology in one of the major applications in the banking 
sector in Egypt: cross border payment and settlement. To reach this aim a quali-
tative analysis was conducted in which a semi-structured interviews approach was 
used. The main findings manifested the ability of this technology to prevent fraud, 
enhance transparency, and ensure financial stability and accountability. It enables a 
secure environment to store and transmit data between organizations and can reduce 
uncertainty. The process is faster, and this can promote customer experience. The 
results disclosed that integrating blockchain technology within the current systems 
in the Egyptian banks should undergo a transitional phase in which the technology 
can be outsourced to ensure security and efficiency. The originality of the research 
lies in the attempt to reconnoiter the readiness of the Egyptian banking sector to 
embrace innovative technologies. 
Keywords Egyptian banking sector · Blockchain · Cross borders payments 
settlements · Digital IT adoption · Digital economy 
1 Introduction 
Throughout time, innovative technologies threaten the traditional ways of conducting 
business inside any organization that adopts those novel technologies. Zahra and 
Covin [1] defined innovation as the lifeblood of corporate survival and growth. 
After several years O’Sullivan and Dooley [2] gave a more detailed definition; in 
their words, innovation is the process of making changes, large and small, radical
S. Gamal (B) · M. M. Aref 
Sociocomputing Department, Faculty of Economics and Political Science, Cairo University, Giza, 
Egypt 
e-mail: shahinazg@cu.edu.eg 
M. M. Aref 
e-mail: mayadaaref@feps.edu.eg 
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022 
S. G. Yaseen (ed.), Digital Economy, Business Analytics, and Big Data Analytics 
Applications, Studies in Computational Intelligence 1010, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-05258-3_37 
469
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-031-05258-3_37\&domain=pdf
mailto:shahinazg@cu.edu.eg
mailto:mayadaaref@feps.edu.eg
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-05258-3_37
470 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
and incremental, to products, processes, and services, that results in the intro-
duction of something new for the organization that adds value to customers and 
contributes to the knowledge store of the organization. Accordingly, the role of inno-
vation is enduring a competitive advantage and generating values as well. Therefore, 
it is crucial to find adequate solutions to the innovator’s dilemma [3]. The inno-
vator’s dilemma states that any organization possesses relatively limited capabilities 
compared to the ones needed by novel technologies. One way out of this dilemma 
is adopting a strategy that ensures a smooth transition from a traditional centralized 
organization to a more distributed and decentralized ecosystem. 
When scanning the chronological order of the emergence of digital innovative 
technologies, from telebanking to fintech, it can be interpreted that the obvious 
advantages of those technologies were; convenience, availability, speed, efficiency, 
effectiveness and transparency of the banking processes as well as facilitating trans-
actions across various sectors [4]. The recognition of the importance of innovations 
caused a swift and a cursory dependence from the banking sector all over the world 
on the rising information and communication technology (ICT). This dependence 
offered an alternate way to conduct some functions such as the banks business struc-
ture and the customer relationship management [5]. One of the most important rising 
ICT is the Blockchain Technology (BCT). BCT can be comprehended as a radical 
digital paradigm that can cause disruption [6–8]. Blockchain, an emerging infras-
tructural technology, can fundamentally transform the ways people transact, trust, 
collaborate, and identify themselves [9]. 
BCT has received exceptional attention in the business, regulators as well as 
academic circles. Since the inception of BCT, it was affined to the financial domain 
and can be a concrete approach to unify the process of collection and verification of 
data in a manner that decreases costs to the minimal. In addition, BCT ascertain that 
the information is neither altered nor forged. This fact can ameliorate the reliability 
of the collected data. It mutated the financial sector and took over the currently used 
traditional business models and technologies [10]. Another major advantage is the 
undoubtful effect of BCT on the shape, size, and the conduction of business in the 
banking and finance industry [11]. 
While the focus of several studies, covering BCT, was about implementation and 
the technical challenges [12, 13], those challenges should not be the only concern. 
Technological design and implementation might constitute a less threatening chal-
lenge if compared to business processes related challenges [14, 15]. Although BCT 
can offer myriad benefits to the banking system, some constraints can slow down or 
even hinder the thorough adoption of this technology in both macro aspects (such 
as requiring large investments in infrastructure, a need of a solid legal foundation, 
etc.) and micro aspects (such as the acceptance, knowledge and ability to use new 
technology, etc.). 
This unjustified bias towards technological adaptation when studying the BCT 
resulted into an empirical and theoretical gap. This research attempts to contribute 
to that field by addressing adoption challenges that organizations might face when 
they merge a novel technology with their information systems. A special focus is
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 471
given to how the banking industry employees evaluate the challenges regarding the 
infusion of BCT in banks. 
In this research, in an attempt to better understand the underlying potentials and 
challenges of the use of BCT in the banking sector; interviews with practitioners and 
experts were conducted. The interviews main aim was to analyze the perceived impor-
tance and potentials of BCT functions in the banking industry. It is widely believed 
that one of the strength points of qualitative research is supporting the researcher 
in understanding the nature and complexity of the studied phenomenon. Advocates 
of the usage of qualitative research believe that when the texts are quantified, the 
phenomenon under study can be better analyzed [16]. This research contributes 
to the emerging research on how BCT can enhance the existing banking process; 
and discuss the readiness of the Egyptian banking sector to embrace technology, 
especially in the process of Cross Border Payment Settlement (CBPS). 
Accordingly, the research is organized as follows: after this introductory section, 
section two presents the conceptual background of BCT. Section three discusses the 
potential benefits and challenges of the applications of BCT in the banking sector 
with a special focus on CBPS. The methodology of data collection and interview 
analysis are presented in section four. Section five is a discussion of the research 
outcomes, while section six concluded the research. 
2 Blockchain Technology Concepts 
The inception of blockchain implementation began in 2008 when Nakamoto [17] 
proposed the eminent cryptocurrency “Bitcoin” and discussed that such technology 
can aid in solving the double-spending issue. A blockchain is given that name because 
of its features and structure. It is mainly made up of blocks of information that are 
chained together through a code, in each block this code relates to the previous one, 
similar to a timestamp, provides the link to the previous block making it impossible to 
modify or corrupt previously recorded transactions and thus leading to an unalterable 
ledger. Blockchains are constantly growing over time as more blocks are added, so 
they actually form a chain-like structure tracking back to the root block [18]. 
BCT came with a new scheme where data validation and responsibility of data 
insertion are distributed among all nodes of the network [6]. The validity of the history 
can only be achieved if, and only if, a consensus is reached all over the system that the 
transaction history is completely correct and comply with the rest of the data stored 
all over the nodes of the network. Therefore, BCT enhance transparency through 
ensuring the validity of an entire history of the transaction [19, 20]. BCT can be seen 
as an analogue to a distributed ledger that is maintained, updated, and verified in a 
harmonized matter by each of the nodes involved in the transactions within a given 
network. No single node can maintain the database; rather each one has a copy of it. 
The concept of storing data in a centralized system cause the data to be prone to 
hacking and fraud. A problem that blockchain distributed decentralized mechanism
472 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
can overcome since all transaction must be verified by different nodes making fraud-
ulent transactions implausible [21]. In addition, each node of the network stores a 
replica of the data, so data is hardly lost [22]. The decentralization feature of BCT 
gives rise to the replication of data all over the nodes of the distributed network. 
Authorized users can retrieve data whenever needed and hence data availability is 
guaranteed even if some setbacks affect a number of nodes. Transactions that occur 
in the network are recorded in automatically and in real time, which make it hectic 
to any organization to forge date as this, will entail the simultaneous modification of 
the entire copies of the ledger [7]. 
If BCT is utterly adopted, it will undoubtedly maintain a reasonable level of 
security and transparency of data. Unauthorized or mischievous users are not able to 
modify or add blocks to the blockchain without being perceived because simply the 
rest of the nodes will promptly notice the deceitful behavior. Thus, it is impossible 
to threaten the integrity of the blocks of the ledger [23]. Even in the case of hacking 
the ledger, the actual verified network copies will overwrite the hacked versions 
returning the records to its original state [24]. It can be seen that the monitoring 
process is switched to networked computation rather than human entities; this feature 
adds trustworthiness to the process and is a genuine feature of BCT. 
2.1 Classification of Blockchain Systems 
Although all blockchains are analogous in structure, they differ in many other aspects 
[25, 26]. The differentiation between blockchain systems can depend on factors 
such as participants who can access data, immutability, control, and the degree of 
openness of the blockchain. Blockchains can be broadly divided into public, private or 
consortium networks. In a public network, access is granted to all nodes; any node can 
join, act, and leave the network without distressing the mechanism of the network or 
affecting the generation of new blocks. The distinguishing feature of decentralization 
of the public BCT causes any procedure to be completely uncontrollable by one 
single organization. Such type of networks is characterized by the presence of a 
considerable number of participants, so any attempt to alter or counterfeit data is 
almost impossible. Public blockchain guarantees transparency to all transactions 
taking place in the network, it might not seem applicable for all industries [27]. 
In private networks, access to the network is granted only to authorized nodes. The 
operator of the private blockchain holds the responsibility of the entire network and 
determines the privileged nodes who are permitted to join the network and specify 
their roles. Based on their assigned roles, entitled nodes will verify the transaction 
and accordingly the new transaction will be visible to the rest of the nodes in the 
network. Communication between nodes possessing a copy of the ledger is necessary 
for reviewing, writing and hence approving new transactions. The ledger is updated 
each time a newly submitted or newly verified transactions occurs. Moreover, the 
operator can abolish inactive nodes, so nodes are required to possess a pre-determined 
minimum number of connections to be considered active and to continue as a part
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 473
of the network. Private blockchains are typically designed and configured to have 
better performance and scalability than the public ones [18]. 
In the consortium blockchain, a sub-category of private blockchains, the accessi-
bility of data and some transaction processes are only assigned to a group of partic-
ipants instead of only one that is why it is considered to be partially centralized. 
Similar to private ones, consortium blockchains are designed for higher performance, 
scalability, and confidentiality if compared to public ones [28]. 
3 Blockchain Technology Applications in the Banking 
Sector 
BCT played a crucial role in the paradigm shift caused by the amalgamation between 
financial technology and the financial sector [29]. In financial services, data security is 
indispensable. Hence, the usage of a private or consortium blockchains is a congruent 
option [30] because it gives the moderators an adequate control over the nodes 
participating in submitting and verifying transactions. The applications of BCT in 
the banking industry can be categorized into Fraud Reduction [31], Trade Finance 
[32], Know your Customer [33] and Cross Border Payment and Settlement [34, 35]. 
Tapscott and Tapscott [8] believe that intrinsic properties of BCT can easily 
disrupt the core functions of any financial system through altering the way they 
work. Holotiuk et al. [36] added that the BCT would result into a more efficient 
payment system. It will not only ease the cross-border transactions, but it will mini-
mize intermediary costs as well. Santander being the first UK bank to introduce BCT 
for international payments predicted that this technology could reduce banks’ infras-
tructure costs related to cross-border payments, securities trading, and regulatory 
compliance [37]. The introduction of blockchain at Barclays has cut down the time 
necessary to execute a capital exchange from ten days to less than one day [38]. 
In the traditional centralized banking procedure, the transfer of money across 
borders is safe and secure but it is also slow and expensive. An important application 
of BCT in the banking sector is improving the clearing and settlement procedures, 
an inter-banks payment settlement for both domestic and cross borders transactions. 
This step allows banks to align the transaction participants without the need for an 
intermediary institution to control the process [36]. Applying this procedure converts 
the settlement process into an instant one. This research focuses on a prevalent 
application of BCT: Cross Border Payment and Settlement (CBPS). 
3.1 Cross Border Payment and Settlement (CBPS) 
The globalization process is deepening; international trade is increasing rapidly and 
the flow of factors of production between countries is increasing as well according
474 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
to the OECD statistics, those facts necessitates a revision to the CBPS procedures. 
Interbank payments are needed to perform such procedures and they are convention-
ally conducted through intermediary clearing firms. The intermediary clearing firm 
undergo a series of steps starting from bookkeeping followed by the transaction and 
balance reconciliation, then payment initiation and the process goes on from a step 
to another. This process is money and time consuming. In the CBPS the clearing 
procedures for each country is different, a remittance for example requires several 
days to arrive. In order to overcome those drawbacks and inefficiencies BCT can 
be used in a point-to-point payment scheme. If such proposal can be implemented, 
transaction costs of banks will be reduced. Banks will be able to offer a swift and a 
satisfying payment clearing services for cross-border commercial activities instead 
of the tedious traditional risk management functions [28]. 
J. P. Morgan applied BCT in various applications in Asian countries; Confirm (that 
globally validate accounts information) and PayDirect (the global clearing solution) 
to transfer payments through the most efficient route. J. P. Morgan added a step to 
improve international funds transfers between banks through the BCT, and those 
transfers cover a myriad of payment transactions. The cost reduction accompanied 
by this procedure is inevitable since the number of rejected transactions caused 
by mismatched payment are almost negligible and the transactions are done near-
real time [39]. Furthermore, those applications will boost both transparency and 
customers’ payment experience. 
The experimental usage of BCT platforms in CBPS is dispersing worldwide and 
an increasing number of financial institutions are joining the novel field. Al Rajhi 
Bank has also used the Ripple BCT for the first time in Saudi Arabia. The bank 
used the platform to undergo a secure, cross-border money transfer. Furthermore, 
The Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority is encouraging domestic banks to indulge 
in the RippleNet allied banking blockchain network, it expected to make monetary 
transfers with regional banks faster, cheaper, and more secure. It will also ensure 
for domestic banks’ customers faster, cheaper, and more transparent cross border 
transactions [40]. 
Standard Chartered bank used the Ripple blockchain platform to manage its first 
cross-border transaction. The transaction completed in less than 10s including the 
foreign exchange process. This is likely unbeaten. The existing banking system and 
traditional network would have taken up to two days to perform the same operation. 
The National Australia Bank has also used Ripple’s ledger technology to transfer 
funds between two banks [28]. Enterprise software provider R3 is teaming up with 
Mastercard, this partnership is expected to provide faster payments and to establish a 
blockchain solution for CBPS through augmenting worldwide connectivity. Finally, 
according to the results of Evan’s econometric model, BCT adoption has positive 
and significant relationship with the financial market development [41]. 
In Egypt, cross borders payments are seen in remittances. Egypt is in the top five 
nations globally in terms of remittance flows from expat communities. Given the 
important role that remittances can play in the Egyptian economy, the National Bank 
of Egypt (NBE) is continuously aiming to develop and enhance the infrastructure that 
pertains to this line of business. Hesham Elsafty, group head for Financial Institutions
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 475
and International Financial Services at NBE: confirmed that joining RippleNet will 
provide the bank with cheaper, quicker and more reliable payments [42]. 
NBE took major steps in adopting BCT. It was the first Egyptian bank to join the 
R3 blockchain Consortium. R3, the enterprise blockchain technology company, is 
leading an ecosystem of more than 300 firms working together to build distributed 
applications for usage across various industries such as financial services, insurance, 
healthcare, trade finance, and digital assets. NBE main target group is Egyptian 
expats who constantly send their remittances to Egypt. By improving its blockchain 
platform through this step, NBE can improve liquidity management and have access 
to real-time financial records. The higher productivity that will result from joining 
the R3 blockchain consortium will enable NBE to expand its network and activities 
not only in Egypt but also throughout North Africa, and the Middle East. The bank 
seeks to expand its client base by offering more efficient and faster CBPS. Hisham 
Okasha, NBE chairperson, clearly stated that by joining this initiative together with 
world banks and companies, we will be able to closely monitor and engage directly 
in global blockchain developments [43]. 
3.2 The Potential Benefits of BCT 
3.2.1 Enhance Data Integrity and Availability 
Data integrity refers to the accuracy and consistency of data, integrity is closely 
related to availability [22]. When a customer faces a service failure or denial, this 
may cause or be caused by an integrity violation. In the banking sector, in particular, 
the importance of data integrity is a paramount issue. Unauthorized alteration of data 
is unacceptable. Data must stay accurate and consistent all over the process through 
setting predefined rules that ensures the correctness and validity of the database. Data 
integrity will ensure that crucial financial data can be recovered if lost, searchable and 
traceable [25, 44]. To safeguard the immutability feature of BCT and data remains 
unaltered; an encryption process is undergone using both public and private key 
procedures. The decryption mechanism can be done by authorized entities. When 
BCT verifies a transaction, and this transaction is added in a chronological order to 
the database, a time stamp is appended to this transaction making the tracing of the 
transaction an easy task [45]. 
3.2.2 Enhance Data Security and System Resilience 
The details of transactions lead to a tampering free data because the machine-based 
algorithm ensures the correctness of data checking and security and replaces the 
human-based checking. The less the human intervention the more secure the transac-
tions. The BCT can trace any invalid transaction or any information that deviate from 
the network consensus and declare it as an invalid transaction [11]. BCT enhances
476 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
information transparency and security: two themes that lowers the risks in the banking 
sector. Data security has always been a dilemma for the banking industry. Encrypting 
information using the BCT can aid in this context where sharing information between 
several nodes of the network is secured and protected. Once data is added to the block 
it becomes inherently unaltered. The BCT reduces the risk associated with central-
ized ledger approaches; there is no central point of failure. Banks using blockchain 
can eschew cyber-related crimes including hacking and fraud [46]. 
3.2.3 Shared Infrastructure and Cost Reduction 
All the nodes of the network who represent the peers of the blockchain initiate 
a shared infrastructure. Using a shared infrastructure reduces cost and time and 
is an important advantage [47]. BCT systems can minimize the intermediaries in 
the payment processing system. The less the intermediaries the higher the security. 
Another benefit of reducing intermediaries in the payments process can be seen in 
the cost reduction as well [36]. 
3.2.4 Increase the Efficiency of the Processes 
When the permitted nodes update the records, the entire blockchain is updated making 
the monitoring and analysis procedures more effective for the banking sector on the 
aggregate level. BCT is used in CBPS to overcome the disadvantages of traditional 
ways and reduce the transaction risks [28]. In addition, the automation of financial 
applications leads to a ledger that is less prone to errors. 
3.2.5 Improved Customer Experience 
BCT can also enable consolidated, accurate repositories of customer information 
that can be accessed by all parties in the network. Using BCT, banks may be able 
to serve customers far more quickly than with traditional systems. Smart contracts 
can be substantial nodes in BCT based networks in the banking sector. BCT enables 
deploying code with predefined rules that automatically execute when conditions 
are met through smart contracts mechanism. Smart contracts automatically execute 
across all ledgers. The enforcement of such contracts can restrain defaults [48]. 
However, while recognizing the potentials of BCT its crucial to address the poten-
tial risks and challenges associated with it. It is worth mentioning that minimizing 
risks and avoiding technical, social, and political aspects of failure can increase the 
pace of adopting the innovative technology [49].
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 477
3.3 The Challenges Facing BCT 
To reap the weal of the BCT in the financial sector several technical as well as social 
aspects must be addressed. The mainstream of research focuses mainly on the tech-
nical challenges and strive for solutions. While in this research, the emphasis is given 
to the social side. The social domain includes concerns regarding data governance 
and how flexible is the regulatory framework. 
3.3.1 Data Governance 
Data governance is the process of managing the availability, usability, integrity and 
security of the data in an organization in order to support the decision making process. 
BCT is a new technology and is not integrated in many areas of governance yet. It still 
brings up a number of governance issues as it both removes the need for a centralized 
authority and second as it is a permanent data storage mechanism [28]. To reiterate, 
the problem lies in the very nature of BCT, it is a distributed and an immutable ledger. 
Those intrinsic features of BCT adds to the complexity of the governance process. 
Reaching a consensus about a certain aspect within a massive number of participants 
with different regulations and understanding makes the decision-making process a 
complex one. 
3.3.2 Regulation 
Governments seek to regulate any innovative procedure specially if it is widely 
spreading and touches upon financial sector [12]. The absence of regulations may 
hinder the diffusion of BCT within organizations [50]. Countries are getting ready 
with their regulatory settings to encounter the potential illegal activities that may 
accompany the usage of BCT [33]. Jurisdictional readiness and legal structure for 
BCT applications is not very mature yet. BCT needs to be thoroughly understood by 
the regulators in order to offer a feasible as well as an efficient regulation framework 
[29]. 
3.3.3 Behavioral Change 
Change is constant, but it faces resistance. In the presence of trusted third parties 
(BCT), customers need to comprehend that their electronic transactions are safe and 
secured [51]. 
As an emerging technology, BCT is expected to validate itself and gradually take 
over traditional banking processes. Table 1 compiles the main points of comparison 
between the latter and the former.
478 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
Table 1 Comparison between traditional and BCT-based banking processes 
Traditional banking processes BCT- based banking processes 
Mode of control Centralized Decentralized 
Efficiency Redundancy and duplication of 
tasks 
Improve payments efficiency and 
flexibility of transactions 
Speed Slower High speed 
Cost Less in energy consumption but 
higher costs in terms of bank fees, 
exchange rate, book-keeping and 
paper work 
Lower operational and administrative 
costs 
Legal framework Well established framework that 
abides to national rules 
Evolving framework that might 
conflict with domestic and 
international institutions 
Governance Central governance Decentralized governance that leads 
to higher complexity in the 
governance process 
Security Vulnerable, data might be 
corrupted, forged. Malicious 
transactions can increase 
BCT is immutable and irreversible 
ensuring higher degrees of security 
4 Data Collection and Analysis 
4.1 Data Collection Methodology 
BCT is another milestone in the Egyptian banking sector development, a new 
unprecedented business model that needs comprehensive investigation and anal-
ysis in order to assess its potential advantages and threats. In this research, data 
was collected using semi-structured interviews approach. This approach enables the 
researcher to grasp hidden and implicit information. The role of the researcher is to 
ensure that the questions and responses are both adequately understood [52]. The 
interviews were flexible and adaptable. Participants possess a high degree of freedom 
in expressing their views and sharing their experiences with the researchers. Four 
broad concepts were discussed with each participant. The first concept covers the 
organization strategy in adopting latest technologies and adaptability. The second 
concept addresses the challenges imposed when a new technology is adopted; espe-
cially the readiness of bank’s employees, challenges regarding the existing regulatory 
framework, and data governance. The third concept addresses the benefit of adopting 
new information technology and the expected potentials of BCT. While in the fourth 
concept, interviewees were asked to mention three factors that they believe essential 
for the banks’ success. 
To analyze the outcome of the interviews the research used purposeful sampling, 
which is a qualitative research technique mainly used to identify and select 
information-rich cases. The steps of this technique are; first identify and select
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 479
knowledgeable and/or experienced participants who understand the phenomenon 
under study. Second step involves the availability and willingness to participate. 
Finally, the participant should be able to deliver knowledge and experience, beside 
his own opinion, in a comprehensible and accurate method [53]. The sample included 
respondents from both public and private banks in Egypt. Solid information was 
obtained from experienced and knowledgeable participants. The participants were 
from several departments and varied from decision makers to IT specialists. Seven 
interviews were conducted with an average time of 40 min, three of which were 
conducted face to face while the rest were performed virtually due to the COVID-
19 situation. Interviews were performed during May and June 2020. To foster the 
competency of qualitative research, more than one data collection method should 
be used in the study and [54]. The researchers added two focus group; each one 
consisted of nine bankers. The concepts were discussed with them for one hour. 
A qualitative analysis was conducted with the interview synthesis methodology 
involving several steps. First, the interviews were broken down into quotes. Next, the 
quotes were coded; similar quotes were consolidated into a single code. Finally, a 
conclusion of the ideas that encompassed all the relevant points for a certain category 
was developed. MAXQDA analytics was used to code the script and to visualize the 
output. 
4.2 Interview Analysis 
4.2.1 Organization Strategy and Adaptability Towards Latest 
Technologies 
Respondents affirmed that in order to be able to compete in the global market, latest 
technology should be adopted. They believe that technology is one of the main 
factors that enables a bank to remain viable and competitive in the market. Moreover, 
leading banks with highest market shares should be the pioneers in using the latest 
technology and popularize it in Egypt. The main obstacle in using the BCT is the 
expected resistance to change. The respondents stated that: 
The bank made a huge leap in terms of technology … introduced new services that are totally 
under the umbrella of Internet banking. 
Technology is a part of the competitive edge of international banks. 
The banking sector is heading to technological based initiatives; digital signature is one 
example so no foreseen barriers can stop adoption and implementation of blockchain. 
4.2.2 Organization Strategy Towards Training and Development 
of Employees 
Respondents acknowledged that their banks offer the training needed to increase 
the efficiency of their staff. The training is provided all around the year and it is
480 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
a priority within the banking sector to provide efficient training to employees in 
different topics. Training topics include banking related topics such as finance or 
monetary policy or general topics that are offered to improve the client/employee 
relationship. Respondents made it clear that: 
The policy of banks is to train the employees in order to get the best of them through properly 
designed training workshops. 
It is a global strategy to invest in employees. 
4.2.3 Organization Strategy Towards Collaboration 
Tapscott and Tapscott [55] emphasized the importance of collaboration even with 
competitors. This paradoxical, co-opetition is a necessity in the age of globalization. 
To cope with higher uncertainties, many companies have turned to co-opetition where 
both co-operation and competition can take place. The concept discussed in this part 
is how respondents perceive the challenges of collaborating with other competing 
banks. Respondent clarified that the idea of collaboration is not new, and that it is 
already implemented. Respondents were aware of the benefits of collaboration such 
as reducing cost, enabling better services to the customers, spillovers and sharing 
experience. Two main concerns were mentioned; the first issue was data privacy and 
governance and the second issue is the uneven distribution of collaboration rewards. 
No challenges are involved cooperation is always needed especially if this will entail 
efficiency and lower costs. 
4.2.4 Blockchain Technology Awareness and Banks’ Success Factors 
Figure 1 displays graphically the codes to BCT related from all the Interviews. The 
frequency of the code is proportional to its font size. According to the respondents,
(a) (b) 
Fig. 1 Textual Analysis of the interviews’ answers concerning: a blockchain technology, b banks 
success factors
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 481
in pane A it is stated that the most crucial benefits were efficiency and produc-
tivity followed by speeding the processes and cost reduction. Other important factors 
included risk and fraud. The fact that BCT can enhance the ability to compete with 
rival banks is among the benefits that were stated. Moreover, the application of BCT 
might act as a trading platform and facilitate remittances and cross borders payments. 
Integrating BCT within the prevailing systems should undergo a transitional phase 
in which the technology will be outsourced to ensure security. According to the anal-
ysis of the interviews, the regulatory framework is well prepared and ready to BCT 
usage and the banks are not expected to face hindering barriers in that context. While 
in Pane B the major three influential factors that supplements to the success of the 
bank institute according to the analysis of textual responses of the participants were 
customer relationship management, financial stability, and profitability.
5 Discussion 
BCT is rather a new phenomenon and its implementation in the Egyptian banking 
sector is in its outset. The analysis of the interviews concluded that banks recognize 
the potential benefits of the usage of BCT, but it is obvious that while some banks are 
already on track, others are still in the planning phase. A sound implementation of 
BCT necessitates not only the engagement of employees; but also, the understanding 
of the main sources of threats. Lack of knowledge, lack of trust, and complexity of 
the system are all threatening factors that entail a negative effect on adoption [6]. It is 
essential to increase the society’s knowledge and understanding of new technologies 
and reassure users about security threats in order to succeed in the new system. 
One of the dimensions that must be addressed in that context is the appropriate 
training strategies that can foster employees’ abilities. The importance of training 
was clear in the respondents’ views: If employees are properly trained, it is like any 
other technology; it will be easy. The research analysis also emphasized that the 
main three factors that can contribute to the bank success and sustainability can be 
enhanced through the adoption of BCT. The use of BCT will eliminate the redundancy 
of data collection and hence will improve customer convenience, which, is the most 
important factor impacting customers’ experience in the banking sector. Maklan et al. 
[56] added that the speed of the process is another factor that adds to the customers’ 
experience. From another angle, improving data reliability will enhance customers’ 
experience too. This improvement can be achieved because of the decentralization 
manner of BCT and the encrypted data, which permits only, authorized entities to 
access stored data. 
An increasing strand of empirical studies demonstrates that adoption and diffu-
sion of ICT may improve profitability and banking performance could be enhanced 
through technological progress [5]. Several areas of expected cost reduction and 
increased profitability from using BCT can be excepted and CBPS is not an exception. 
This cost saving will result from reducing the cost of identification and onboarding 
processes [57]. Likewise deploying BCT in the banking sector in particular can offer
482 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
a spectrum of opportunities from the ability to compete in the market to the effi-
cient performance of the bank. Those factors are expected to consolidate financial 
stability. On the other hand, the respondents added that the main threats were the 
inadequate infra-structure in Egypt and the governance process of the blockchain. 
Finally, theoretically speaking a concrete legal framework is essential in the imple-
mentation phase of a newly introduced technology, the respondents affirmed that 
Egypt possess an appropriate framework that complies with the needs of BCT but 
neoteric regulations might be needed in the future. As a step towards improving the 
legal framework and in order to acclimate with the BCT requirements and other rapid 
developments in financial technology, The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE) launched 
its Fintech regulatory “Sandbox” to ensure faster and easier access to new financial 
solutions without threatening financial stability and consumer protection [58]. 
The research findings are harmonious with several studies. Chang et al. [59] 
concluded that adaptive financial institutions that are able to embrace new technolo-
gies, such as BCT, are more likely to withstand competitive environment. The study 
added that continuous employees training is a corner stone in building a successful 
blockchain based system. Similarly, Almahirah [60], who examined the effect of 
blockchain smart contracts on the financial and banking services in Jordan, confirmed 
the benefits of BCT in terms of enhanced efficiency, boosting customer experience 
and reducing bank’s operational costs. The research findings bolstered the impor-
tance of raising the awareness of both employees and clients in order to succeed in 
accelerating the technology adoption rate. On the other hand, a line of research [28] 
emphasized the role of top managers in hasting the acceptance and adoption of BCT, 
Almahirah [60] added that managers’ role is undeniable in encouraging employees 
to comprehend BCT potentials. 
6 Conclusion and Future Work 
One of the keys to success in a competitive and a volatile market is innovation. 
A viable organization can comply with abrupt opportunities and banks are not an 
exception. For a bank to compete and succeed it is obliged to adopt new technologies. 
BCT would ensure competitive edge in a rapidly progressing technological environ-
ment and is already gaining momentum and causing paradigm-disruption effects in 
the banking sector around the world. The impact of BCT on the traditional business 
model of banks is clear. BCT allows banks to transform their business model signif-
icantly. It is able to eliminate redundant procedures, allowing for swift transactions 
with lower costs. It also improves security levels. However, to apply this technology 
in the economy, banks need to explore and probe its potentials in both economic 
and social applications. The benefits and potentials of blockchain are undeniable; 
the research suggests that BCT is one of the latest approaches that have the ability to 
enhance decentralization, transparency, and accountability. It enables a secure and 
transparent environment to store and transmit data between organizations without
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 483
a central point of control with the potency to reduce uncertainty and insecurity in 
transactions. 
The research examined the opportunities and challenges facing BCT adoption in 
the Egyptian banks. Future research can expand the methodology and use empirical 
method to analyze the influencing factors. The research can act as an onset for building 
a theoretical framework for evaluating and disbanding the discussed challenges. 
References 
1. Zahra S, Covin J (1994) The financial implications of fit between competitive strategy and 
innovation types and sources. J High Technol Manag Res 5:183–211 
2. O’Sullivan D, Dooley L (2009) Applying innovation. SAGE Publication Inc., Thousand Oaks 
3. De Rossi L, Abbatemarco N, Salviotti G, Gaur A (2020) Beyond a blockchain paradox: how 
intermediaries can leverage a disintermediation technology. In Proceedings of the 53rd Hawaii 
international conference on system sciences 
4. Peters G, Panayi E (2016) Understanding modern banking ledgers through blockchain tech-
nologies: future of transaction processing and smart contracts on the internet of money. In: 
Banking beyond banks and money. Switzerland. Springer International Publishing, Cham, pp 
239–278 
5. Campanella F, Peruta M, Giudice M (2017) The effects of technological innovation on the 
banking sector. J Knowl Econ 8:356–368 
6. Attaran M, Gunasekaran A (2019) Blockchain-enabled technology: the emerging technology 
set to reshape and decentralize many industries. Int J Appl Decis Sci 12:424–444 
7. Beck R, Müller-Bloch C (2017) Blockchain as radical innovation: A framework for engaging 
with distributed ledgers. In: HICSS 2017 proceedings, pp 5390–5399 
8. Tapscott D, Tapscott A (2017) How blockchain will change organizations. MITSloan Manag 
Rev 58 
9. Angelis J, Ribeiro da Silva E (2019) Blockchain adoption: a value driver perspective. Bus Horiz 
62:307–314 
10. Glaser F (2017) Pervasive decentralization of digital infrastructures: a framework for 
blockchain enabled system and use case analysis. Waikoloa, Hawaii, U. S.A. Paper presented 
at the 50th Hawaii international conference on system sciences 
11. Osmani M, El-Haddadeh R, Hindi N et al (2021) Blockchain for next generation services in 
banking and finance: cost, benefit, risk and opportunity analysis. J Enterp Inf Manag 34:884– 
899 
12. O’Leary DE (2017) Configuring blockchain architectures for transaction information in 
blockchain consortiums: the case of accounting and supply chain systems. Intell Sys Acc 
Fin Mgmt 24:138–147 
13. Mendling J, Weber I, Aalst W et al (2018) Blockchains for business process management: 
challenges and opportunities. ACM TMIS, 9 
14. Chong A, Lim E, Hua X et al (2019) Business on chain: a comparative case study of five 
blockchain-inspired business models. JAIS 20:1310–1339 
15. Zhang L, Xie Y, Zheng Y et al (2020) The challenges and counter measures of blockchain in 
finance and economics. Syst Res Behav Sci 37:691–698 
16. Miles M, Huberman A, Saldana J (2014) Qualitative Data analysis: a methods sourcebook. 
SAGE Publications Inc. 
17. Nakamoto S (2008) Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system 
18. Werner F, Basalla M, Schneider J et al (2020) Blockchain adoption from an inter-organizational 
systems perspective: a mixed-methods approach. Inf Syst Manag 1–16
484 S. Gamal and M. M. Aref
19. Lin I, Liao T (2017) A survey of blockchain security issues and challenges. Int J Netw Secur 
19:653–659 
20. Tasca P, Tessone CJ (2019) A taxonomy of blockchain technologies: principles of identification 
and classification. Ledger 4:1–39 
21. Puthal D, Malik N, Mohanty S et al (2018) The Blockchain as a decentralized security 
framework. IEEE Consum Electron Magasine 7:18–21 
22. De Rossi LM, Abbatemarco N, Salviotti G (2019) Towards a comprehensive blockchain archi-
tecture continuum. In Proceedings of the 52nd Hawaii international conference on system 
sciences 
23. Aste T, Tasca P, Di Matteo T (2017) Blockchain technologies: the foreseeable impact on society 
and industry. Computer 50:18–28 
24. Xu J (2016) Are blockchains immune to all malicious attacks? Finan Innov 2:25 
25. Zheng Z, Xie S, Dai H et al (2018) Blockchain challenges and opportunities: a survey. Int J 
Web Grid Serv 14:352–375 
26. Casino F, Dasaklis TK, Patsakis C (2019) A systematic literature review of blockchain-based 
applications: current status, classification and open issues. Telemat Informa 36:55–81 
27. Beck R, Müller-Bloch C, King (2018) Governance in the blockchain economy: A framework 
and research agenda, J Assoc Inf Syst 19:1020–1034 
28. Guo Y, Liang C (2016) Blockchain application and outlook in the banking industry. Finan 
Innov 2:1–12 
29. Ali O, Ally M, Clutterbuck et al (2020) The state of play of blockchain technology in the 
financial services sector: a systematic literature review. Int J Inf Manag 54:102199 
30. Yermack D (2017) Corporate governance and blockchains. Rev Finan 21:7–31 
31. Phan L, Li S, Mentzer K (2019) Blockchain technology and the current discussion on fraud. 
Comput Inf Syst J Articles. Paper 28 
32. Chang S, Luo H, Chen Y (2020) Blockchain-enabled trade finance innovation: a potential 
paradigm shift on using letter of credit. Sustainability 12:188 
33. Kumar M, Nikhil P (2020) A blockchain based approach for an efficient secure KYC process 
with data sovereignty. Int J Sci Technol Res 9 
34. Chen Y, Bellavitis C (2020) Blockchain disruption and decentralized finance: the rise of 
decentralized business models. J Bus Ventur Insights 13 
35. Yao X, Zhu T (2017) Blockchain is to create a new ecology of cross-border payment. Finan 
Expo (Wealth) 5:46–48 
36. Holotiuk F, Pisani F, Moormann J (2017) The impact of blockchain technology on business 
models in the payments industry. In: Wirtschaftsinformatik 2017 proceedings 
37. Belinky M, Rennick E, Veitch A (2015) The Fintech 2.0 Paper: rebooting financial services: 
Santander InnoVentures, Oliver Wyman and Anthemis Grou 
38. Hooper A, Holtbrügge D (2020) Blockchain technology in international business: changing 
the agenda for global governance. Rev Int Bus Strategy 30:183–200 
39. Morgan J (2021) J. P. Morgan uses blockchain technology to help improve 
money transfers https://www.jpmorgan.com/news/jpmorgan-uses-blockchain-technology-to-
help-improve-money-transfers. Accessed 10 July 2020 
40. Ripple (2018) Ripple and Saudi Arabian Monetary Authority (SAMA) Offer Pilot Program for 
Saudi Banks. https://ripple.com/insights/ripple-and-saudi-arabian-monetary-authority-offer-
pilot-program-for-saudi-banks/ Accessed 1 May 2021 
41. Evans O (2019) Blockchain technology and the financial market: an empirical analysis. Actual 
Prob Econ 211:82–101 
42. Palmer D (2021) Egypt’s Largest Bank Joins Ripple network for cross-border payments: 
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/egypt-largest-bank-joins-ripple-095855366.html. Accessed 8 
July 2020 
43. DailyNewsEgypt (2018) NBE joins one of largest global blockchain initiatives https://dailyn 
ewsegypt.com/2018/04/22/nbe-joins-one-largest-global-blockchain-initiatives/ Accessed 12 
Aug 2020 
44. Iansiti M, Lakhani K (2017) The truth about blockchain. Harv Bus Rev 95:118–127
https://www.jpmorgan.com/news/jpmorgan-uses-blockchain-technology-to-help-improve-money-transfers
https://www.jpmorgan.com/news/jpmorgan-uses-blockchain-technology-to-help-improve-money-transfers
https://ripple.com/insights/ripple-and-saudi-arabian-monetary-authority-offer-pilot-program-for-saudi-banks/
https://ripple.com/insights/ripple-and-saudi-arabian-monetary-authority-offer-pilot-program-for-saudi-banks/
https://finance.yahoo.com/news/egypt-largest-bank-joins-ripple-095855366.html
https://dailynewsegypt.com/2018/04/22/nbe-joins-one-largest-global-blockchain-initiatives/
https://dailynewsegypt.com/2018/04/22/nbe-joins-one-largest-global-blockchain-initiatives/
Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration … 485
45. Ismail LM (2019) A review of blockchain architecture and consensus protocols: use cases, 
challenges, and solutions. Symmetry 11 
46. Carminati B, Ferrari E, Rondanini C (2018) Blockchain as a platform for secure inter- organi-
zational business processes. In: IEEE 4th international conference on collaboration and internet 
computing 
47. Cocco L, Pinna A, Marchesi M (2017) Banking on blockchain: costs savings thanks to the 
blockchain technology. Future Internet 9:25 
48. Osba A, Miller A, Shi E, et al (2016) The blockchain model of cryptography and privacy-
preserving smart contracts. In: IEEE Symposium on security and privacy, pp 839–858 
49. Yeoh P (2017) Regulatory issues in blockchain technology. J. Finan Regul Compliance 
25(2):196–208 
50. Gupta A, Gupta S (2018) blockchain technology application in Indian banking sector. Delhi 
Bus Rev 19(2):75–84 
51. Crosby M, Pattanayak P, Verma S et al (2016) Blockchain technology: beyond bitcoin. Appl 
Innov 2:71 
52. Kulic K (2015) The crisis intervention semi-structured interview. Brief Treat Crisis Interv 
5:143–157 
53. Cresswell V, Plano Clark L (2011) Designing and conducting mixed method research, 2nd edn. 
Sage, Thousand Oaks, CA 
54. Kruger R (2015) Casey M (2015) Focus groups: a practical guide for applied research. Sage, 
Thousand Oaks (CA) 
55. Tapscott D, Tapscott A (2016) Blockchain revolution: how the technology behind Bitcoin and 
other cryptocurrencies is changing the world. Penguin Book, London 
56. Maklan S, Antonetti P, Whitty S (2017) A better way to manage customer experience: lessons 
from the royal bank of Scotland. Calif Manage Rev 59:92–115 
57. Marito P (2021) Blockchain and banking how technological innovations are shaping the 
banking industry. Palgrave, Macmillan, Pisa, Italy 
58. The Central Bank of Egypt (CBE). https://fintech.cbe.org.eg/home/sandbox?en (2020) 
Accessed 20 Aug 2021 
59. Chang V, Baudier P, Zhang H et al (2020) How Blockchain can impact financial services—the 
overview, challenges and recommendations from expert interviewees. Technol Forecast Soc 
Change 158 
60. Almahirah M (2021) The effect of smart blockchain contracts on the financial services industry 
in the banking sector in Jordan Ilkogretim 20:1845–1853
https://fintech.cbe.org.eg/home/sandbox?en
	 Challenges and Opportunities of Blockchain Integration in the Egyptian Banks: A Qualitative Analysis
	1 Introduction
	2 Blockchain Technology Concepts
	2.1 Classification of Blockchain Systems
	3 Blockchain Technology Applications in the Banking Sector
	3.1 Cross Border Payment and Settlement (CBPS)
	3.2 The Potential Benefits of BCT
	3.3 The Challenges Facing BCT
	4 Data Collection and Analysis
	4.1 Data Collection Methodology
	4.2 Interview Analysis
	5 Discussion
	6 Conclusion and Future Work
	References