Blockchain: a game changer for marketers?
Blockchain: a game changer for marketers?
Mark R. Gleim1
& Jennifer L. Stevens2
Accepted: 3 January 2021
# The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, LLC part of Springer Nature 2021
Abstract
Marketers are faced with understanding and implementing new technologies at a
greater rate than ever before. Yet despite the emergence of blockchain technology over
a decade ago, it has received very little attention by academic researchers in marketing.
Given the unique attributes of blockchain—transparent, decentralized, and
immutable—it can create a more secure, customer centric, and open marketplace for
consumers and businesses. This research contends that blockchain has the potential to
transform businesses and is a technology that marketers need to be acutely aware of and
prepared to utilize. We seek to generate discussion and future research on the impact of
blockchain on five distinct areas: cryptocurrency, digital platforms, supply chain,
online advertising, and market research.
Keywords Blockchain .Customer loyalty . Innovation .Sustainability .Marketingstrategy
1 Introduction
The emergence of blockchain in recent years has provided it prominence within the
public spectrum; however, it has yet to be utilized to its full potential. Bitcoin is the
most publicly known form of the technology, yet blockchain helps to power
Provenance, a supply chain platform; Ubex, a digital marketing platform; Measure
Protocol, a marketing research platform; Lemonade, an insurance platform; and
Inxeption, a digital commerce platform, among many others. Additionally, 84% of
executives surveyed by PwC in 2018 note that their companies are actively
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11002-021-09557-9
* Mark R. Gleim
mark.gleim@auburn.edu
Jennifer L. Stevens
jennifer.stevens4@utoledo.edu
1 Harbert College of Business, Auburn University, Auburn, AL 36849, USA
2 College of Business and Innovation, The University of Toledo, Mail Stop #103, Toledo,
OH 43606, USA
Marketing Letters (2021) 32:123–128
/Published online: 13 January 2021
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/s11002-021-09557-9&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-7200-472X
mailto:mark.gleim@auburn.edu
involved with the technology. Thus, the fundamental question for marketers is:
What impact will blockchain have on marketing? This research seeks to spark
discussion and future research on the impact of blockchain for marketers.
Blockchain is a “peer-to-peer network that sits on top of the internet” (Iansiti
and Lakhani 2017, pg. 5). Essentially, blockchain is a decentralized, transparent,
immutable database of records and digital events. A block (coded information) is
created and then shared and verified by millions of nodes (computers) in the chain.
Whereas traditional records and transactions are stored on servers, blockchain
decentralizes the information. This reduces the threat of vulnerabilities (e.g.,
hackers, corrupted servers). Since the information is not stored in a single location,
everyone on the network has access to it. The public nature of the network seeks to
increase trust among users (Ghose 2018; Zheng et al. 2018). While blockchain is
built on the idea of transparency, the identity of users remains anonymous. All
transactions are publicly available and transparent; however, user information is
kept private by providing a coded public address for each person. The public
address is typically used to send or receive cryptocurrency and can be changed
frequently by the user via a digital wallet that creates a new public address. This
helps to ensure users remain anonymous while on the network, however, to transfer
the funds to a hard currency, a person needs to leave the network, which could
make one vulnerable to identification.
Blockchain also ensures that information and transactions are stored securely
and cannot be altered without a consensus of participants (Zheng et al. 2018). Once
the data has been distributed, the secure hashing algorithm (SHA) makes it
practically impossible to tamper with (Shahzad and Crowcroft 2019). Any attempt
to change the input, which generates the 256-bit SHA, will result in dramatic
changes to the SHA, thus not matching existing records. Essentially, a user is only
able to change information in their own block and would not alter the millions of
others connected to the network. To proceed with an action, consensus mecha-
nisms, or rules that decide on the contribution of users, are in place. Consensus
mechanisms exist in a variety of forms (e.g., proof of work, proof of stake,
byzantine fault tolerance, proof of elapsed time, proof of burn); however, they all
seek to ensure a single user is not able to manipulate the network and everyone
benefits appropriately.
Given the unique attributes of blockchain—transparent, decentralized, and
immutable—the underlying assumptions that drive existing theories and research are
largely not transferable. Blockchain can create a more secure, customer centric, and
open marketplace for consumers and businesses; however, if it is treated the same as
existing technologies, it may cease to be integrated any further.
2 Research agenda
Despite the unpredictability surrounding blockchain’s future, it is important for mar-
keters to understand the potential that exists. Given the opportunities presented by
blockchain, we provide research questions for scholars to consider in the areas of
cryptocurrency, digital platforms, supply chain, online advertising, and market research
(see Table 1).
124 Marketing Letters (2021) 32:123–128
Table 1 Summary of blockchain research opportunities and questions
Research
opportunity
Representative research
question(s)—consumers
Representative research
question(s)—managers
Cryptocurrency What messaging strategies would best
encourage customer understanding and
acceptance of cryptocurrencies?
How does cryptocurrency use vary across
demographic groups? Further, how may
security and privacy concerns account for
any differences?
How can firms increase customer loyalty
using cryptocurrencies?
Would it be advantageous for companies to
accept multiple types of cryptocurrency or
just one?
How can firms leverage the use of
cryptocurrencies to maximize revenue
(e.g., by holding it as an asset or
converting immediately for a traditional
currency)?
Digital
platforms
How would consumers respond to new
blockchain based platforms compared
with traditional platforms? How loyal to
existing platforms are consumers?
What are the biggest challenges to getting
consumers to utilize the blockchain based
platforms?
What kind of information should be
presented to inform potential users of the
benefits of the new platforms?
How should the messaging be different
based on demographics, or other relevant
variables?
How do blockchain based platforms develop
a competitive advantage when entering a
market with existing dominant businesses
(e.g., Amazon)?
How do existing platforms compete in a
blockchain based environment? Is it
advantageous to adopt the technology and
keep the brand recognition it has? Or is it
better to carve out a niche by purchasing a
startup that would compete in this area?
What opportunities exist for existing
industries that are ripe for change (e.g.,
travel, sharing economy, banking) to
embrace blockchain technologies within
their current platforms?
Supply chain What impact will real transparency in the
supply chain have on consumers?
How do consumers value supply chain
transparency with regard to
sustainability? Will it lead to more sales,
the ability to charge more or an enhanced
image?
What impact will blockchain transparency
have on a company’s supply chain?
Would it lead to fewer partners in the
supply chain or have an increased risk of
disruption?
Will it encourage more firms to adopt
sustainability initiatives and discourage
greenwashing?
Online
advertising
What will drive the move to blockchain for
digital advertising—consumers or busi-
nesses? Will consumers respond more
favorably if well-known brands lead the
charge?
Are consumers willing to give up some of
their online privacy through verified
profiles for a more relevant and rewarding
online experience? What kind of reward
or payment would be appropriate for
users that interact with digital ads?
How will blockchain allow for digital
marketers to more accurately measure
ROI of ads due to increased transparency?
How would this impact the expected ROI
for digital ads?
What value would digital ad buyers (e.g.,
brands or ad agencies) find in transparent
results?
What brands or products would be best
suited to utilized blockchain based digital
ads?
Market research What type of smart contract would be
appealing to participants? What elements
of the study design or smart contract
would most impact participation?
How much would participants expect to be
paid based on specific smart contract
stipulations?
What are the most important conditions
(e.g., click rate, time per page view or
question) to include in a smart contract for
survey participants? How does the type of
data sought (e.g., survey, experimental)
impact the conditions of the smart
contract?
Marketing Letters (2021) 32:123–128 125
2.1 Cryptocurrency
The five largest cryptocurrencies by market cap, Bitcoin, Ethereum, Tether, XRP, and
Polkadot, have a total value of nearly $275 billion (CoinMarketCap 2020). Addition-
ally, there are nearly 100 more cryptocurrencies, each with a market cap exceeding
$100 million. The growth of the cryptocurrency market presents an opportunity for
businesses to reduce their dependence on credit card companies and increase customer
loyalty. In fact, Facebook is creating its own cryptocurrency, the Libra. However, the
wild swings in value can make it a risky, or profitable, venture. The opportunity to
utilize cryptocurrencies to attract consumers may provide firms with access to a new
market, as well as the potential for tax friendly gains if it increases in value. Younger
consumers are more likely to utilize cryptocurrencies; however, it may alleviate the
concerns many older consumers have if they know the transaction is secure.
2.2 Digital platforms
Like the disruption Amazon brought upon the marketplace, blockchain could provide
the foundation for an upheaval of digital commerce platforms, not only B2C, but also
B2B. Inxeption, for example, is a cloud-based digital commerce platform built on
blockchain. Blockchain enables an efficient and secure communication and transaction
platform for manufacturers and customers, which reduces costs and exposure. Amazon
analyzes third party seller data as it seeks to develop its own products, which leaves
many manufacturers vulnerable (Mattioli 2020). However, blockchain would enable
sellers to utilize their own, or a third-party, platform, such as OpenBazaar, without
having to pay the fees, or give control of their data to a server-based platform like
Amazon.
Similarly, blockchain has the potential to upend entire industries. Just as video
stores, travel agencies, and many retailers have ceased operations due in large part to
the Internet, blockchain could make some digital platforms obsolete. The online
booking sites (e.g., Travelocity, Expedia) that replaced travel agencies could be
replaced by blockchain platforms. This would largely eliminate the fees currently paid
by airlines and hotels and create a more secure reservation platform for users. In the
sharing economy, Uber, Lyft, Airbnb, and many other platforms could be eliminated if
blockchain replaces the centralized databases of those companies (Marr 2018).
Blockchain could facilitate the entire transaction from service request to payment via
cryptocurrency, enabling a transparent transaction and improved pay for workers.
However, the banking industry may undergo the greatest transformation. In addition
to customers no longer requiring the basic service of monetary storage, blockchain may
Table 1 (continued)
Research
opportunity
Representative research
question(s)—consumers
Representative research
question(s)—managers
Are participants willing to adhere to the
contract stipulations for cryptocurrency or
would they prefer another form of
payment?
What impact do the demographics of
potential participants have on the smart
contract conditions set by a researcher?
126 Marketing Letters (2021) 32:123–128
help to facilitate costly cross-border transactions, while also automating invoices and
payment collection. In fact, Barclays has invested in Crowdz, a blockchain based B2B
payment platform, to help facilitate transactions (Nicol 2019).
2.3 Supply chain
The impact of blockchain on the supply chain, in particular its transparency, is
immense. Provenance, a platform and consultancy for supply chain transparency,
enables firms to verify the origin and journey of a product as they seek to gain trust
in sustainability efforts. Consumers have more access to information than ever before
and companies like Provenance can take that a step further. Companies can now tell the
story of the product from inception, to creation, to transport, to the consumer’s hands.
The environmental, social, and financial impact of the product can be monitored and
assessed to ensure the claims made by the company are accurate. A transparent supply
chain should reward those who are doing things responsibly, while encouraging others
to join the movement.
2.4 Online advertising
The lack of trust in online advertising has grown in recent years. From privacy
concerns, to the prevalence of computer bots, to increased click rates, marketers face
an uncertain digital environment (Hart 2017). Ubex, a global advertising platform
based on blockchain, aims to help mitigate those issues. Blockchain allows for con-
sumers to have authenticated and verified profiles on the network. This enables users to
opt-into viewing ads and is rewarded for interacting with them. Rather than the revenue
going to the website showing the ad, consumers are compensated for interacting with
the ad. Additionally, the information that was once collected and sold by websites is
now under the control of the user. Given the financial ramifications for companies like
Google and Facebook that thrive on ad revenue, blockchain-based ad platforms are
likely going to face stiff resistance. However, brands that are skeptical of existing forms
of online advertising may find the advantages of blockchain beneficial compared with
existing methods.
2.5 Market research
The attributes of blockchain make it an appealing technology for use in market research
as well. From a privacy perspective, the decentralized nature of blockchain helps ensure
that the data breaches (e.g., Target, Home Depot) do not occur (Zheng et al. 2018).
Also, with the growth of sites such as MTurk and Prolific, data quality has become a
concern for academics. Smart contracts can be created on blockchain that ensure
payment is received once the agreed upon conditions are met (Dolgui et al. 2020).
These conditions could be anything set by the researcher (e.g., time spent per page or
question, click rate). The smart contract helps to ensure that participants are intention-
ally completing the survey, thus reducing blind responses, and helping to ensure high
quality data. Stipulating the specifics of the contract would be determined by the
researcher based on collection requirements and then agreed to by qualified partici-
pants. Participants would be paid an agreed upon amount via cryptocurrency once the
Marketing Letters (2021) 32:123–128 127
chain verifies that the contract has been fulfilled. Each person also has a verified profile,
thus ensuring only one response per person. The use of blockchain would enable
researchers to have greater confidence in online data collections.
3 Conclusion
Despite its progression over the last decade, blockchain has yet to be fully embraced or
make the impact many suspected it would. It is important that marketers be aware of the
potential implications of blockchain since it may be a technology that reshapes our
economic system.
References
CoinMarketCap (2020). Today’s cryptocurrency prices by market cap. https://coinmarketcap.com/. Accessed
16 Sept 2020.
Dolgui, A., Ivanov, D., Potryasaev, S., Sokolov, B., Ivanova, M., & Werner, F. (2020). Blockchain-oriented
dynamic modelling of smart contract design and execution in the supply chain. International Journal of
Production Research, 58(7), 2184–2199.
Ghose, A. (2018). What blockchain could mean for marketing. Harvard Business Review, 5, 2–5.
Hart, B. (2017). Blockchain technology is poised to transform the advertising industry. Here's what it means
for your business. https://www.inc.com/brian-hart/heres-how-blockchain-could-transform-advertising-
industry.html. Accessed 15 Sept 2020.
Iansiti, M., & Lakhani, K. R. (2017). The truth about blockchain. Harvard Business Review, 95(1), 118–127.
Marr. B. (2018).Why blockchain could kill Uber. https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2018/02/09/why-
blockchain-could-kill-uber/. Accessed 15 Sept 2020.
Mattioli, D. (2020). Amazon scooped up data from its own sellers to launch competing products. https://www.
wsj.com/articles/amazon-scooped-up-data-from-its-own-sellers-to-launch-competing-products-
11587650015. Accessed 21 Sept 2020.
Nicol, D. (2019). Barclays invests in new blockchain invoice exchange. https://www.gtreview.com/news/
fintech/barclays-invests-in-new-blockchain-invoice-exchange/. Accessed 2 Dec 2020.
Shahzad, B., & Crowcroft, J. (2019). Trustworthy electronic voting using adjusted blockchain technology.
IEEE Access, 7, 24477–24488.
Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H. N., Chen, X., & Wang, H. (2018). Blockchain challenges and opportunities: a
survey. International Journal of Web and Grid Services, 14(4), 352–375.
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published maps and
institutional affiliations.
128 Marketing Letters (2021) 32:123–128
https://coinmarketcap.com/
https://www.inc.com/brian--hart/heres--how--blockchain--could--transform--advertising--industry.html
https://www.inc.com/brian--hart/heres--how--blockchain--could--transform--advertising--industry.html
https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2018/02/09/why--blockchain--could--kill--uber/
https://www.forbes.com/sites/bernardmarr/2018/02/09/why--blockchain--could--kill--uber/
https://www.wsj.com/articles/amazon--scooped--up--data--from--its--own--sellers--to--launch--competing--products--11587650015
https://www.wsj.com/articles/amazon--scooped--up--data--from--its--own--sellers--to--launch--competing--products--11587650015
https://www.wsj.com/articles/amazon--scooped--up--data--from--its--own--sellers--to--launch--competing--products--11587650015
https://www.gtreview.com/news/fintech/barclays--invests--in--new--blockchain--invoice--exchange/
https://www.gtreview.com/news/fintech/barclays--invests--in--new--blockchain--invoice--exchange/
	Blockchain: a game changer for marketers?
	Abstract
	Introduction
	Research agenda
	Cryptocurrency
	Digital platforms
	Supply chain
	Online advertising
	Market research
	Conclusion
	References