Decentralized Consensus Decision-Making for Cybersecurity Protection in Multimicrogrid Systems
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021 2187
Decentralized Consensus Decision-Making for
Cybersecurity Protection in Multimicrogrid Systems
Bowen Hu , Chunjie Zhou , Yu-Chu Tian , Senior Member, IEEE,
Xiaoya Hu , Senior Member, IEEE, and Xinjue Junping
Abstract—Multimicrogrid (MMG) systems play an increas-
ingly important role in the smart grid. They come with var-
ious potential cyberattacks, which may cause power supply
interruption or even human casualties. Therefore, decision-
making for timely mitigation of cyberattack risks is highly desir-
able in the security protection of power systems. However, there
is a lack of effective decentralized decision-making strategies
that are able to deal with MMG scenarios through distributed
consensus. To address this issue, a decentralized consensus
decision-making (DCDM) approach is proposed in this article
for the security of MMG systems. It achieves decentralized con-
sensus without the need of a trusted authority or central server,
making it distinct from existing consensus methods. Meanwhile,
it guarantees the consistency and nonrepudiability of consen-
sus results, which are stored on the blockchain in sequence. In
each of the distributed agents, the approach consists of a fuzzy
static Bayesian game model (FSB-GM) to determine the optimal
security strategy and a hybrid consensus algorithm to achieve
consensus. The FSB-GM considers the fuzzy preferences of dif-
ferent types of attackers and defenders. The hybrid consensus
algorithm is implemented by the fusion improvement of two con-
sensus mechanisms in the blockchain. The effectiveness of the
presented approach is demonstrated through a case study on an
MMG system.
Index Terms—Blockchain, cybersecurity, Decentralized con-
sensus decision-making (DCDM), fuzzy static Bayesian game
model (FSB-GM), multimicrogrid (MMG).
Manuscript received November 29, 2019; revised June 9, 2020; accepted
August 15, 2020. Date of publication September 17, 2020; date of current
version March 17, 2021. The work of Chunjie Zhou was supported in part by
the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61873103 and
Grant 61433006; and in part by the National Key Research and Development
Program of China under Grant 2019YFB2006300. The work of Yu-Chu Tian
was supported by the Australian Research Council through the Discovery
Project Scheme under Grant DP170103305. This article was recommended
by Associate Editor Y.-J. Liu. (Corresponding author: Chunjie Zhou.)
Bowen Hu, Chunjie Zhou, and Xiaoya Hu are with the Key Laboratory
of Image Processing and Intelligent Control, Ministry of Education, School
of Artificial Intelligence and Automation, Huazhong University of Science
and Technology, Wuhan 430074, China (e-mail: hubowen@hust.edu.cn;
cjiezhou@hust.edu.cn; huxy@hust.edu.cn).
Yu-Chu Tian is with the School of Computer Science, Queensland
University of Technology, Brisbane, QLD 4001, Australia (e-mail:
y.tian@qut.edu.au).
Xinjue Junping is with the School of China-EU Institute for Clean and
Renewable Energy, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan
430074, China (e-mail: jpxj95@hust.edu.cn).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this article are available
online at https://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TSMC.2020.3019272
I. INTRODUCTION
W ITH the integration of renewable energy sources, mod-
ern power systems show significant increases in both
size and complexity. As a result, centralized management
of power systems becomes more difficult and less flexi-
ble. It is also exposed in an environment with a potential
single-point of failure (SPoF). The massive deployment of dis-
tributed renewable energy generation under distributed control
is transforming conventional power systems into multimicro-
grid (MMG) systems [1], [2]. MMG systems can be operated
in either grid-connected or islanded modes [3], [4]. A typical
mesh type of MMG structure is shown in Fig. 1.
However, MMG systems suffer from various cyberattacks.
A cyberattack to power systems has caused the Ukraine black-
out in 2015, plunging approximately 225 000 customers into
darkness. Therefore, ensuring the security of MMG systems
is an issue of great significance.
Due to the tight integration of both cyber and physical com-
ponents in MMG systems [5], a failure of the cyber layer may
affect the operation of the physical layer. This may further lead
to a cascade of blackout catastrophe. Hence, it is important to
develop an appropriate security strategy for timely mitigation
of cyberattack risks [6]. Among multiple distributed agents
of MMG systems, decision-making through consensus is a
feasible way for cybersecurity protection of MMG systems.
While consensus decision-making (CDM) can be either cen-
tralized [7] or decentralized [8], decentralized methods are
more suitable for MMG systems because of the advan-
tages of flexibility, scalability, and robustness [9]. Meanwhile,
decentralized methods would not crop up problems, such
as calculation bottleneck or SPoF in centralized methods.
Encouraged by these recommendations, the researchers have
focused on decentralized control approaches for multiagent
systems [10]–[12].
Recently, decentralized consensus has been investi-
gated [13]. A fully distributed peer-to-peer architecture,
Overgrid, is designed to control and implement distributed
demand response [14]. A fully distributed scheduling method-
ology is also proposed based on discrete-time optimal control
and consensus networks [15], to alleviate the need of a central
node. Nevertheless, focusing more on strategic coordination in
consensus, these methods have not considered the credibility
and trust of distributed nodes. The survey [16] also points
out that the reliability and accuracy of each response action is
highly demand, more so in the absence of a centralized trusted
authority.
2168-2216 c© 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0730-3648
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5291-5841
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8709-5625
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0394-3931
2188 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021
Fig. 1. Typical structure of MMG system.
Some efforts have been made to address the problem of the
reliability of each response action. For example, the credentials
of the participant are either generated by using a central cer-
tification authority (CA) or certified among peers [17]. Each
agent associates a trust metric to each of its neighbors. The
trust metrics are taken into account in the filtering scheme.
Therefore, the information transmitted from agents with low
trust is disregarded [18]. In spite of these efforts, most existing
methods use a central CA or trust mechanism among peers
to guarantee the security countermeasures generated from a
trusted participant. However, the trust mechanism tends to fall
into the favor of high-reputation agents. Furthermore, a central
CA is easy to become a bottleneck in computing and storage
capacity as the number of participants increases.
Motivated by the results mentioned above, a decentral-
ized CDM (DCDM) approach is proposed in this article
for cybersecurity protection in MMG systems. Addressing
various deficiencies of centralized methods, such as SPoF,
it deals with the scenarios in which distributed nodes are
attacked or untrustworthy. As a result, it ensures the reli-
ability and immutability of decision results. In the DCDM
approach, a fuzzy static Bayesian game model (FSB-GM)
is designed to obtain the optimal security strategy in each
of the distributed agents. It considers probabilistic variables
and approximate values in realistic games. Employing the
obtained security strategies, CDM is achieved based on a
hybrid consensus mechanism derived from a blockchain. Then,
the final consensus countermeasures are stored on each block
in sequence.
Overall, the main contributions of this article include as
follows.
1) Without the need of a trusted authority or central server,
a DCDM approach is proposed for cybersecurity pro-
tection in MMG systems. It avoids SPoF problem of
centralized methods, and guarantees the consistency and
nonrepudiability of consensus results at the same time.
2) As part of the approach, an FSB-GM is designed to
enhance the accuracy of decision-making in distributed
agents. It considers the fuzzy preferences of different
types of attackers and defenders when estimating the
payoff matrix.
3) A hybrid algorithm of delegated proof of stake (DPoS)
and proof of work (PoW) mechanisms in the blockchain
Fig. 2. Cybersecurity protection architecture for MMG.
is devised for consensus on the distributed decision
results. It increases the transaction rate and overcomes
the defect of one single richest member.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows.
Section II reviews related work on cybersecurity protection
architecture, fuzzy Bayesian game theory, and decentralized
consensus mechanisms in blockchain. Section III designs our
DCDM approach. The generation of a security strategy based
on FSB-GM is analyzed in Section IV. This is followed
by discussions on our consensus algorithm using blockchain
in Section V. Experiments are conducted in Section VI to
demonstrate our approach. Finally, Section VII concludes this
article.
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
A. Cybersecurity Protection Architecture for MMG
The architecture of cybersecurity protection is shown in
Fig. 2. It consists of four components: 1) MMG systems;
2) intrusion detection system; 3) decision-making system; and
4) strategy execution system. These four components alto-
gether form an intrusion tolerance scheme with a closed
loop [19]. The main idea of the architecture is to protect MMG
systems in advance from being compromised.
First, various real-time data in cyber and physical layers
are collected for basic security analysis and deep intrusion
detection. Then, from the detected attack evidence, system risk
is assessed and the optimal defense strategy is obtained to
gain an acceptable risk for maintaining or regain operational
status. After that, the optimal defense strategy is fed into the
strategy execution system. It will be interpreted as a group of
preventive or corrective actions to protect the system, perhaps
at a degraded level of performance, stability, or security. Our
decision-making strategy proposed in this article is able to deal
with MMG scenarios through distributed consensus, which can
be implemented in a decentralized system.
B. Fuzzy Bayesian Game Theory
Recently, most of the existing game-theoretic decision-
making methods adopt a complete and crisp information
game model [20], [21]. However, the stringent and unrealistic
assumption [19] can not handle the ambiguity properly in real
life games. To address the issue where the payoffs are prob-
abilistic variables or approximate values, two types of game
models are suitable [22].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
HU et al.: DCDM FOR CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION IN MMG SYSTEMS 2189
The first type of game model is the Bayesian game. It is
able to deal with the situation where both attacker and defender
are not aware of each other’s behavior. More specifically, the
model classifies the types of players first. Each player only
knows the probability of each type of opponent. Recently,
a number of articles have been published on the incomplete
information version of game theory [23]. With consideration of
the uncertainty of attack behaviors, a security decision-making
approach based on the stochastic game model is proposed
in [24].
The second type of game model is fuzzy game. Because
the vagueness of human judgment and uncertainty of objective
things are still hard to characterize in many situations, there
are mainly two types of fuzziness in games: 1) fuzzy prefer-
ences or strategies of players and 2) fuzzy evaluation of the
payoffs [25]. Since the fuzzy set theory has been proposed, it
has been well developed and applied in the problem of approx-
imation. A noncooperative game model is developed in [26],
where both payoffs and strategies of players are considered as
fuzzy sets.
Thus, in order to estimate the payoff matrix accurately in
Bayesian game, the types and fuzzy preferences of attackers
and defenders are worthy to be considered.
C. Decentralized Consensus Mechanism in Blockchain
First of all, the entire MMG is divided into several regions
with consideration of logical and physical connections so
as to achieve decentralized consensus of security strate-
gies [27]. There are overlapping areas between these partitions,
i.e., redundancy between the divided regions. The overlap-
ping areas can be used for mutual authentication to achieve
consensus and enhance system security.
It is ingenious that the blockchain technology derived from
Bitcoin [28] has raised the idea of decentralization to an
unprecedented height [29]. Blockchains and smart contracts
have been used for providing transaction security in decen-
tralized smart grid energy trading [30]. Furthermore, with
the blockchain technology, an architectural design for decen-
tralized management of energy systems is presented in [31].
However, it does not depict process and implementation plan
clearly.
Analogous to the fact that new block can be obtained by the
behavior of mining in Bitcoin, the consensus of security strate-
gies can also be reached by each microgrid region (MR). In
order to verify the information added to the ledgers, the con-
sensus mechanisms are widely used in cryptocurrency [32].
They can be classified into three classes: 1) PoW; 2) proof of
stake (PoS); and 3) DPoS [33]. A comparison of these three
classes is shown in Table I. As the earliest consensus mech-
anism in Bitcoin, PoW is highly decentralized, but requires
a longer time to reach consensus. In contrast, the transac-
tion rate of DPoS is relatively high. The advent of consensus
mechanisms of blockchain provides a solution to the classic
consistency problem of distributed systems. The problem is
known as the Byzantine Generals Problem.
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF THE THREE CLASSES OF CONSENSUS MECHANISMS
Fig. 3. Design of DCDM in MMG.
In summary, the fitness of the blockchain and decentralized
system has motivated us to investigate the consensus mecha-
nism for CDM, which addresses the problem of security and
credibility in the data transmission process. Its performance
can be improved by integrating the consensus mechanisms in
the blockchain.
III. DESIGN OF DCDM
Our game-theoretic DCDM approach based on blockchain
technology is shown in Fig. 3. The DCDM process consists of
two stages in each of the distributed agent: 1) FSB-GM-based
security strategy generation and 2) security strategy consensus
by using a hybrid consensus mechanism in blockchain. Their
functions are described below in detail.
In security strategy generation, each MR generates its
optimal defense strategy independently according to its own
information. From the type and fuzzy preference of attack-
ers and defenders, the fuzzy payoff matrix is estimated and
mapped into an FSB-GM. In order to solve the problem of the
static game with incomplete information, the Harsanyi trans-
formation is used to infer the Bayesian Nash equilibrium, i.e.,
mixed security strategy.
The security strategy consensus module realizes the consen-
sus of decentralized security decision-making among MMGs.
First, an improved hybrid algorithm based on DPoS and PoW
is proposed for selecting the recording node and generat-
ing proposal. The content of proposal is the defense strategy
seeking for consensus. Then, the node coupled with the record-
ing node becomes the delegates. It judges the rationality and
reliability of the proposal according to the comparison of
strategic similarity. Finally, consensus-derived strategies are
stored on blockchain, i.e., distributed ledger, in sequence to
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2190 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021
TABLE II
DEFINITIONS OF GAME PARAMETERS
ensure its immutability and reliability. In addition, in order to
ensure the active involvement of distributed nodes, incentive
mechanism-based reward, and penalty are also considered.
IV. FSB-GM-BASED SECURITY STRATEGY GENERATION
This section solves the security decision-making problem of
each MR from the game-theoretic perspective. It begins with
an introduction to a two-person static Bayesian game model
(SB-GM). Then, a solution to a static game with incomplete
information is analyzed, expressing attack-defense game in the
realistic process. After that, due to the difficulty of obtaining
the precise payoff matrix, the fuzzy payoff is adopted instead
of conventional Boolean two-valued logic. It considers three
perspectives of strategic cost, system loss, and state stability.
A. Bayesian Game Model
As the impact of attacks is often different from the per-
spectives of attackers and defenders, a bimatrix game can
be designed to solve a nonzero-sum attack-defense game. In
a realistic attack-defense game, factors, such as the changes
in the operating state and the occurrence of own faults may
lead to uncertain results and random effects. Thus, a player
may not know exactly the payoffs of the game or the types
of their opponents. With consideration of these incomplete
information, the classical types of attackers and defenders are
improved in this article. Then, a two-person SB-GM G is
formulated as a 9-tuple
G = <N, TA, TD, SA, SD, PA, PD, UA, UD> (1)
where all game parameters are explained in Table II.
In the SB-GM, NA is the attacker, and ND is the defender.
The types of attacker (TA) can be divided into two cate-
gories: 1) target-based and 2) benefit-based. The types of
defender (TD) include system loss-based and state stability-
based. PA : P(TD|TA) represents the probability judgment
on the type of defender TD when the attacker’s type is TA.
PD represents defender’s transcendental beliefs. Due to the
different types of participants, their preferences and defini-
tions of payoff (U) are also different. They are determined by
{SA, SD, TA, TD}.
B. Solution to Static Game With Incomplete Information
In real life games, each player could not accurately grasp
the opponent’s type, specific strategies, and benefits. To solve
this game problem with incomplete information, the Harsanyi
transformation [35] is employed to convert this problem into
a game with complete but imperfect information. This means
that all players and payoffs are known to everyone. But they
do not know the types of other players except the probability.
In this case, the defender (ND) infers the attacker’s types
(TA) according to its own particular type (TD
j ) and Bayes’ the-
orem. Then, it develops its strategy (SD). Corresponding UD
j−lm
and UA
j′−lm indicate the payoff of the defender and attacker
when defense strategy SD
m and attack strategy SA
l are adopted,
respectively. They are given by
⎧
⎨
⎩
UD
j−lm =
∑V
i=1 UD
(
SA
l , SD
m, TA
i , TD
j
)
P
(
TA
i |TD
j
)
UA
j′−lm =
∑V
i=1 UA
(
SA
l , SD
m, TA
i , TD
j
)
P
(
TA
i |TD
j
)
.
(2)
Similarly, the universal payoff can also be obtained in the
same way, thus forming the final payoff matrix from the
perspective of the defender type TD
j , as shown in (21) below
SD
1 SD
2 · · · SD
M⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
(
UA
j′−11, UD
j−11
) (
UA
j′−12, UD
j−12
)
· · ·
(
UA
j′−1M, UD
j−1M
)
(
UA
j′−21, UD
j−21
) (
UA
j′−22, UD
j−22
)
· · ·
(
UA
j′−2M, UD
j−2M
)
...
...
. . .
...(
UA
j′−L1, UD
j−L1
) (
UA
j′−L2, UD
j−L2
)
· · ·
(
UA
j′−LM, UD
j−LM
)
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
SA
1
SA
2
...
SA
L
.
(3)
Assume that the selected attack strategy
pA=(pA
1 , pA
2 , . . . , pA
L) and protection strategy pD =
(pD
1 , pD
2 , . . . , pD
M) are mixed strategies. Then, the total
payoff of the attacker and defender is defined as
{
UA
(
pA, pD
) =∑L
l=1
∑M
m=1 pA
l pD
m UA
j′−lm
UD
(
pA, pD
) =∑L
l=1
∑M
m=1 pA
l pD
m UD
j−lm.
(4)
It is known that every finite game has a mixed strategy
Nash equilibrium solution [36]. In a static game with incom-
plete information, a Bayesian Nash equilibrium is defined as
a mixed strategy profile (pA∗ , pD∗ )
{∀pA, UA
(
pA, pD
) ≤ UA
(
pA∗ , pD
)
∀pD, UD
(
pA, pD
) ≤ UD
(
pA, pD∗
)
.
(5)
It can be obtained from
∂ UA
(
pA, pD
)
∂pA
l
= 0,
∂ UD
(
pA, pD
)
∂pD
m
= 0 (6)
with constraints
∑L
l=1 pA
l = 1,
∑M
m=1 pD
m = 1. Thus, there
is no strategy that one player could choose to yield a higher
payoff.
C. Attack-Defense Fuzzy Payoff Matrix
After solving the problem of incomplete information about
the opponent, howbeit the subjective consciousness and pref-
erence of the players are still there and worth noting. It is
difficult for the players to accurately estimate the payoff matrix
of the game. Therefore, in this article, fuzzy payoffs (ŨA, ŨD)
are adopted instead of conventional Boolean two-valued logic.
TA mainly includes target-based and benefit-based. A target-
based attacker focuses on the completion of the attack goal
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
HU et al.: DCDM FOR CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION IN MMG SYSTEMS 2191
TABLE III
DETAILED EXPLANATIONS OF OVERALL PAYOFF FACTORS
and the damage caused to the system, regardless of the cost
comparatively. Thus, its fuzzy preference parameter β̃ will be
larger in the calculation formula of the ŨA. Meanwhile, the
coefficient α̃ will be smaller
ŨA = −α̃C
(
pA
)
+ β̃
{
L′
(
pA, pD
)
+ S ′
(
pA, pD
)}
. (7)
On the contrary, TD is composed of two categories:
1) system loss-based and 2) state stability-based. ŨD can be
defined as
ŨD = −C(
pD)− γ̃L′
(
pA, pD
)
− ν̃S ′
(
pA, pD
)
(8)
where fuzzy preference parameter γ̃ and ν̃ vary depending on
the type of defender (TD).
More detailed explanations of these payoff factors are sum-
marized in Table III. As the result dimensions derived from
these factors are not uniform, the normalization process theory
is adopted based on the concept of relative importance degree
L′ = L− Lmin
Lmax − Lmin
, S ′ = S
Smax
. (9)
Therefore, ũlm indicates the element of payoff matrix under
attack-defense strategy profile (pA
l , pD
m) after normalization.
Assume that each element is a triangular fuzzy number (TFN)
ũlm = (ulm, ulm, ulm), and its membership function is given by
μũlm(x)
=
⎧
⎨
⎩
(
x− ulm
)
/
(
ulm − ulm
)
, ulm ≤ x ≤ ulm
(ulm − x)/(ulm − ulm), ulm < x ≤ ulm
0, x < ulm or ulm < x
(10)
where x ∈ R, ulm ≤ ulm ≤ ulm, ulm is the main value of the
TFN (ũlm) and means the most likely value of this probability,
ulm and ulm are the lower and the upper bounds, respectively.
In order to convert this fuzzy problem into a static game
problem, we adopt a method based on fuzzy probability and
its mean to achieve defuzzification of the payoff matrix.
Parameter N indicates the probability of main value (ulm)
is N times as much as the probability of lower bound (ulm) as
actual payoff. The larger the value of N, the greater the degree
of deviation (ulm − ulm). Similarly, the probability of main
value (ulm) is M times the probability of the upper bound (ulm).
Fig. 4. Comparison of different consensus algorithms.
Then, the probability vector [pulm
, pulm , pulm] of TFN ũlm can
be defined as
pulm
= 1
2(1+ N)
, pulm =
N + 2NM +M
2(1+ N)(1+M)
pulm =
1
2(1+M)
. (11)
where the probability vector means the probability distribution
of u, u, and u, which needs to satisfy that pu + pu + pu = 1.
The mean of TFN ũlm is expressed as
Mũlm = pulm
· ulm + pulm · ulm + pulm · ulm. (12)
Thus, ŨA and ŨD can be obtained. The game is converted
to a static game problem with incomplete information. The
static game problem has already been solved in Section IV-B.
V. HYBRID ALGORITHM FOR SECURITY STRATEGY
CONSENSUS
Based on the security strategy derived from each MR, a
hybrid consensus algorithm is proposed to select the recording
node and delegates. Therefore, a proposal for consensus and a
new block storing result information can be generated. Then,
Choquet integral and incentive mechanism are used separately
for the implementation of strategy similarity comparison and
reward. Finally, the DCDM is achieved with the consensus
strategy information that stored in the new block.
A. Recording Node and Delegates Selection
To timely mitigate cyberattack risks, each energy manage-
ment system (EMS) of the related region strives to propose
its own defense strategy. Thus, it needs to choose a recording
node first.
As mentioned in Table I, there are some consensus mech-
anisms giving the way of selecting recording node. PoW
consensus mechanism means that the more work done by
a participant, the greater the possibility of being selected as
the recording node. In contrast, the DPoS consensus mecha-
nism implies that the capability of a particular depends on the
stake it owns, in addition, the consensus of results is between
delegates not all of the distributed nodes.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2192 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021
If a hybrid consensus is used with the integration of both
DPoS and PoW mechanisms, the energy consumption and pro-
cessing time will become smaller in the process of reaching
consensus. Consequently, the cost and difficulty of attacks will
increase significantly. Therefore, an improved hybrid algo-
rithm with both DPoS and PoW is proposed, as shown in
Fig. 4. The size of the circle represents the stake of node. The
blue line in the circle indicates the cutoff line for different
difficulty work. The red sector that rotates counterclockwise
means the amount of work that has been completed.
The main features of the hybrid algorithm are as follows.
1) Different from the way of the traditional DPoS in which
the cyclic delegates generate blocks in sequence, the
solution still needs to be obtained by mining so as to
increase the degree of decentralization and the difficulty
of attack. However, the difficulty of mining is related
to the stake of the node itself, which is replaced by
credibility in this article.
2) The MMG system is divided into a number of regions
with mutual coupling relationship, which has been dis-
cussed in Section II-C. Each region is equivalent to
a distributed node, and the delegates are selected by
having the coupling relationship with the recording
node.
The detailed steps of the hybrid algorithm are shown in
Algorithm 1. In the pseudocode of the algorithm, RN indi-
cates the selected recording node, D represents the selected
delegates, and N means the total number of distributed nodes.
First, the stake of each node ST(k) is calculated. It is multi-
plied by the product of the credibility Cred(k) and its duration
T(k). T(k) ≤ Tmax = 72 (hours). Then, hash operations are
performed on each node separately from
SHA256
(
SHA256
(
Hash(k)′
)+ Timestamp
+ Nonce+Merkle Root) < Target(k) (13)
where Hash(k)′ means the hash value in the previous block
of node k. The larger the stake ST(k) implements, the easier
the inequality achieves. Because ST(k) ∈ [0, 72], Target(k)
could be cut into 4 levels according to Targetmax ·16�ST(k)/18	.
To ensure real-time decision-making, Targetmax is set to
0×FFFF0000× 24×56. Finally, only the node coupled with
RN has the right to become the delegates and participate
in the consensus process of generating new block. This is
distinct from the traditional DPoS consensus mechanism,
which elects determined 21 (EOS) or 101 (Bitshare) nodes
as delegates [34].
B. Strategic Similarity Comparison
As mentioned in Section IV, each EMS of region has
different fuzzy preferences and security strategies. When a
consensus is made on the proposal proposed by one region,
the delegates elected as representatives will review and judge
the compliance and similarity of the content of proposal.
Different from the collaboration among detection
results [37], the consensus of security decision-making
will be a many-valued or fuzzy logic instead of a Boolean
one. For MMG systems, defense measures mainly include
Algorithm 1 Hybrid Algorithm of Both DPoS and PoW
Require: The information of distributed nodes
Ensure: RN, D
1: RN ← 0, D← ∅
2: Targetmax ← 0xFFFF0000 ×24×56
3: Hashmax ← 0xFFFF0000 ×24×64
4: for all k ∈ {1, 2, . . . , N} do
5: Hash(k)← Hashmax
6: end for
7: while Hash(k) < Target(k) do
8: for all k ∈ {1, 2, . . . , N} do
9: ST(k)← Cred(k) · T(k)
10: Target(k)← Targetmax · 16�ST(k)/18	
11: Hash(k) ← SHA256(SHA256(Hash(k)′) +
Timestamp+ Nonce+Merkle Root)
12: end for
13: end while
14: RN ← k
15: D← {x| Coupling relationship between x and k}
operating breakers and interconnection switches, turning the
distributed generation (DG) on or off, dynamically changing
adjustable load, and replacing faulty equipment.
In order to judge whether the security strategy in the pro-
posal is reasonable and correct, it is first necessary to judge
whether the strategy satisfies these basic constraints [38]–[40],
which are discussed below.
1) Constraints of Supply-Demand Balance:
∑
PDG,j ≥
∑
PLS,i +
∑
Pls,l (14)
where PDG,j represents the upper bound of active power of
DGj, PLS,i is the load (LSi) of the microgrid, and Pls,l indicates
a loss on the line l.
2) Constraints of Nodal Voltage:
Vi. min ≤ Vi ≤ Vi. max (15)
where Vi. min and Vi. max are, respectively, lower and upper
limits of each nodal voltage Vi.
3) Constraints of Branch Capacity:
Sl ≤ Sl. max (16)
where Sl. max indicates the maximum allowable apparent power
of the branch l.
After that, cosine similarity is used to calculate the consis-
tency of different defense strategies
sim(x, y) = x · y
‖x‖‖y‖ =
∑n
i=1 xi × yi
√
∑n
i=1(xi)
2 ×
√
∑n
i=1(yi)
2
(17)
where x and y indicate defense measures, which may include
binary boolean vectors and continuous vectors.
There are often correlations between several types of
defense measures, which are nonadditive properties. Therefore,
we adopt Choquet integral to fuse different similarities, and
the final similarity result is compared and judged with the
threshold. Then, delegates will agree with the security strategy
proposed by RN as the result exceeds the threshold.
A nonadditive measure μ on measurable space X is a set
function μ: X → [0, 1], satisfying the following axioms:
1) μ(∅) = 0; 2) μ(X) = 1; and 3) A ⊆ B → μ(A) ≤
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
HU et al.: DCDM FOR CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION IN MMG SYSTEMS 2193
Fig. 5. Longest chain rule in blockchain.
μ(B). The discrete version of Choquet integral of measurable
function f with respect to μ is expressed as
(C)
∫
fdμ =
n∑
i=1
[
f (xi)− f (xi−1)
]
μ(Ai) (18)
where f (xi) indicates that the indices have been permuted
so that 0 ≤ f (x1) ≤ · · · ≤ f (xn) ≤ 1; f (x0) = 0
and Ai = {xi, . . . , xn}.
C. Reward and Penalty
In Bitcoin, RN could get the corresponding digital currency
as a reward through the process of mining. The incentive
mechanism in blockchain is adopted into our scheme. This
ensures the active involvement of distributed nodes in the
process of CDM. The rewards are mainly divided into eco-
nomic and noneconomic categories. Economic incentives are
achieved by lowering electrovalency in the region. The reward
range is proportional to ST(k). After being rewarded, the dura-
tion T(k) is cleared and reset. Noneconomic incentives are
implemented by adjusting the credibility of distributed node
Cred′(k) = max
{
Cred(k)+ μ
(
1− ρ
Cred(k)·T(k)
Tmax
)
, 1
}
(19)
where Cred′(k) means the credibility obtained after modifica-
tion, reward factor μ represents the strength of reward that is
proportional to the percentage of consensus, and ρ indicates
the historical behavior of the node, i.e., the proportion of the
punished action in all actions.
From the consensus mechanism and the longest chain rule
in blockchain, the untrusted or wrong proposal could not get
the approval from most representatives or reach consensus.
Therefore, this block will not be added to the end of the chain
by majority. It would become an orphan block and eventually
be eliminated, as shown in Fig. 5. And the node that proposed
the proposal is deemed to have been invaded or affected by
the attack. Its credibility will decline. If a regarding node has
long-term malicious behavior, its rate of reduction will become
higher and higher. Furthermore, when Cred(k) is below a cer-
tain threshold, the node will not receive any economic benefit.
Therefore, the penalty is shown as
Cred′(k) = min
{
Cred(k)− λρCred(k), 0
}
(20)
where penalty factor λ represents the strength of penalty that
is inversely proportional to the percentage of consensus.
VI. EXPERIMENTAL STUDIES
To demonstrate, this section implements and tests our
DCDM approach on a typical MMG platform.
TABLE IV
ATTACK STRATEGY
TABLE V
DEFENSE STRATEGY OF MR5
A. Simulation Setup
Fig. 6 depicts the architecture of the MMG simulation
testbed. It is a typical decentralized scenario when the iso-
lation switches (CB01, CB02) are open and the interconnected
microgrids are running in island mode without the support of
the utility grid. The green DG nodes adopt U/f control to guar-
antee the stability of the voltage and frequency in microgrid
systems running in island mode. The red DG units adopt the
way of P/Q control to achieve the designated control for active
and reactive power. In each microgrid, two colored adjustable
loads, blue and black, are used to represent vital load and
nonvital load, respectively. The regional division indicates
the correspondence between the power flow and the EMS.
The transmissions of measurement information and operating
instructions are via the wide area network (WAN) [41], [42].
According to the vulnerabilities of system, some attack sce-
narios are enumerated. They are assumed that the attacker has
infiltrated the communication of MR6 and a man-in-the-middle
(MITM) attack is conducted by the modification of operating
instructions on microgrids 4 or 5. So, the next available attack
strategies are enumerated in Table IV.
In contrast to the attack actions, the strategies of defender
MR5 are listed in Table V. According to Tables IV and V, the
available network game tree is drawn in Fig. 7. The defender
needs to get the prior conviction of attackers’ types through
the analysis of historical data.
B. Simulation and Result Analysis
Two experiment scenarios are designed: 1) obtain the
optimal attack/defense strategy profile based on our FSB-GM
and 2) Use our hybrid algorithm to acquire the DCDM.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2194 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021
Fig. 6. Typical decentralized MMG model.
1) Experiment 1—Security Strategy Generation: Let us
focus on security decision-making in a single MR to demon-
strate the effectiveness of the proposed FSB-GM. From
the perspective of the system loss-based defender, defender
(MR5)’s transcendental beliefs of attacker’s types are (target-
based attacker, benefit-based attacker) = (0.6, 0.4), which are
related to the analysis of historical attack scenarios. Different
defenders may have different perceptions. The perceptions can
be constantly updated and improved through the analysis of
new attack scenarios. As the attacker belongs to target-based
type, the fuzzy parameters α̃ and β̃ in the formula (7) are set
as (0.1, 0.2, 0.3) and (18 000, 20 000, 22 000), respectively.
If the attacker is benefit-based type, parameters α̃ and β̃ are
(0.9, 1.0, 1.2) and (12 000, 14 000, 17 000), respectively. We
combine the historical data to determine the empirical value
in TFN, and estimate that the probability of occurrence of
ulm is twice that of ulm and ulm. According to formula (11),
pulm
= 1/6, pulm = 4/6, pulm = 1/6. From the calculation
formula (7) and (8) of UA and UD, payoff matrix is obtained as
SD
1 SD
2 . . . SD
8⎛
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎜
⎝
(4, 592,−5, 765) (10, 966,−13, 733) · · · (5, 406,−6, 783)
(5, 226,−6, 908) (17, 209,−21, 886) · · · (6, 042,−7, 928)
.
.
.
.
.
.
. . .
.
.
.
(−25, 31) (11, 165,−13, 956) · · · (0, 0)
⎞
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎟
⎠
SA
1
SA
2
.
.
.
SA
8
.
Then, from (4) and (6), the Bayesian Nash equilibrium
is obtained. The mixed optimal strategy profile (pA∗ , pD∗ ) is
depicted as Fig. 8. This means that based on the defender’s
transcendental beliefs, the attacker is very likely to take the
attack strategy SA
3 . The defender would take the defense
strategy SD
7 with a higher probability.
2) Experiment 2—Security Strategy Consensus: In this
experiment, facing with the conducted MITM attack on
Fig. 7. Network game tree.
microgrids 4 or 5, all MRs associated with it propose their
own defense strategy. In order to achieve consensus of secu-
rity strategies, they will campaign for being RN first. After
that, their proposals have a chance to be approved and
accepted. The initial stake of each MR is set in Table VI.
According to the hybrid consensus algorithm of DPoS and
PoW (Section V-A), MR5 is finally selected as RN after
hash operations. The nodes with coupling relationship become
delegates (D = {MR2, MR3, MR4, MR6}).
Then, with the mixed strategy profile pD∗ obtained in
Experiment 1, MR5 takes the defense strategy SD
7 and saves
this result in the new Block Bn of its distributed ledger (Fig. 9).
However, this security strategy needs to get the approval and
consensus from delegates, and let delegates record the new
block on their own distributed ledger. To achieve this goal,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
HU et al.: DCDM FOR CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION IN MMG SYSTEMS 2195
Fig. 8. Attacker and defender’s optimal strategies.
TABLE VI
STAKE OF EACH MR
Fig. 9. Security strategy is stored in the block.
Fig. 10. Consistency of defense strategies.
each delegate should first judge whether the proposal of secu-
rity strategy satisfies the basic constraints (14)–(16). Then, in
the light of Choquet integral of measurable function (18), the
consistency of different defense strategies is shown in Fig. 10.
The value of threshold is determined with consideration of
many factors, e.g., the types of defense strategies, the number
of MGs, etc. The factor threshold is set as 0.5 after verification.
It is seen from Fig. 10 that only the strategy proposed by
MR6 has great dissimilarity. The other delegates accept the
proposal and record the new block behind their distributed
ledgers. Thus, the node MR6 has likely been attacked. Its
security strategy will be ignored to form a consensus.
Next, based on the incentive mechanism, the credibility of
RN (MR5) will get an upgrade from 0.7 according to (19)
Fig. 11. Computing time of different recording nodes.
when μ = 0.375 and ρ = 0.3
Cred′(5) = max
{
Cred(5)+ μ
(
1− ρ
Cred(5)·T(5)
Tmax
)
, 1
}
= 0.9318.
Finally, the real-time performance of our hybrid consensus
algorithm is evaluated. It is compared with the conventional
PoW mechanism. Thus, we plan to contrast the computing
time when two consensus algorithms generate a new block
(Fig. 11). Each of the simulation scenarios is conducted for
500 runs under the parameters given in Table VI. It is noted
that the computing time mainly depends on the hash oper-
ations of each node. The level of Target(k) determines the
difference of computing time. Therefore, the proposed hybrid
consensus algorithm has advantages over the PoW mechanism
in terms of real-time performance. Furthermore, the expres-
sion of the correlation between the influencing factors stake
[ST(k) = Cred(k)·T(k)] and the computing time of generating
a new block (CT) is shown in (21). This correlation indicates
that with the increase of stake of MRk, the computing time
declines exponentially
lg CT ≈ −1.1244
⌊
ST(k)
18
⌋
+ 1.1560. (21)
C. Further Discussions
Through the above experiments, the proposed DCDM
approach is shown to be able to efficiently make opportune
defense strategy for MMGs. It also solves the consensus
problem of strategies between decentralized nodes. Security
strategy generation from our FSB-GM obtains the optimal
defense strategy dynamically with a unified payoff quantifi-
cation approach, which considers the incomplete information
of realistic game and the fuzzy preferences of different
types of attackers and defenders. Security strategy consen-
sus based on our hybrid consensus mechanism and incentive
mechanism achieves DCDM without the need of a trusted
authority or central server, thus effectively avoiding SPoF
problem. Consensus-derived security strategies are stored on
blockchain in sequence, guaranteeing the consistency, and
nonrepudiability of results.
Tables VII and VIII compare our proposed approach with
some existing methods. Since the experiment environments
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2196 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021
TABLE VII
COMPARISONS OF THE PROPOSED FSB-GM WITH EXISTING METHODS ON STRATEGY GENERATION
TABLE VIII
COMPARISON OF THE PROPOSED HYBRID CONSENSUS ALGORITHM WITH RELATED WORKS ON STRATEGY CONSENSUS
and the simulated attack scenarios are different, it is diffi-
cult to directly quantitatively compare the performance of the
methods. Therefore, some qualitative metrics have been given
in the two tables.
From Tables VII and VIII, it is observed the following.
1) Strategy Generation: The existing approaches somewhat
overlooked the relationship between payoff matrix and
the type of attackers and defenders. They assumed that
both attacker and defender were aware of each other’s
behavior. Such an assumption is often unrealistic in
practical systems.
2) Strategy Consensus: Most previous studies did not con-
sider the problem of how to achieve consensus on
security strategy when these assumptions of trust and
security were relaxed. While central CA and trust mech-
anism among peers were developed, a central CA is
a bottleneck for scalability and the trust mechanism
could not prevent the malicious data transmitted by
high-reputation participants.
3) Hybrid Consensus Algorithm: The superiority of hybrid
consensus algorithm over existing methods is reflected in
two aspects. On the one hand, compared with the PoW
algorithm, the amount of calculation is reduced, and the
transaction rate is increased. On the other hand, unlike
the DPoS algorithm that sequentially generates blocks
by delegates, our hybrid algorithm overcomes the defect
of one single richest member.
Therefore, our approach is applicable to decentralized
scenarios for solving the problem of CDM in MMG systems.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this article, a new DCDM approach has been proposed
for protecting MMG systems by using consensus mechanisms
in blockchain. It solves SPoF and other inaccurate decision
issues without the need of a trusted authority or central server.
Meanwhile, it guarantees the consistency and nonrepudiabil-
ity of consensus results in the process of distributed data
transmission. More specifically, we first detail the classifica-
tion of attackers and defenders, and consider fuzzy preference
in the process of payoff quantification, which mainly takes
into account the strategic cost, system loss, and state stabil-
ity. Then, in order to increase transaction rate and overcome
the defect of one single richest member, the security strategy
achieves consensus by taking use of hybrid algorithm based
on DPoS and PoW. Simulation results have demonstrated the
effectiveness of the presented approach.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank the anonymous referees for
their helpful comments and suggestions.
REFERENCES
[1] E. Bullich-Massagué, F. Díaz-González, M. Aragüés-Peñalba,
F. Girbau-Llistuella, P. Olivella-Rosell, and A. Sumper, “Microgrid
clustering architectures,” Appl. Energy, vol. 212, pp. 340–361,
Feb. 2018.
[2] S. A. Arefifar, M. Ordonez, and Y. A. I. Mohamed, “Voltage and cur-
rent controllability in multi-microgrid smart distribution systems,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 817–826, Mar. 2018.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
HU et al.: DCDM FOR CYBERSECURITY PROTECTION IN MMG SYSTEMS 2197
[3] D. An, Q. Yang, W. Yu, X. Yang, X. Fu, and W. Zhao, “SODA: Strategy-
proof online double auction scheme for multimicrogrids bidding,” IEEE
Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 48, no. 7, pp. 1177–1190,
Jul. 2018.
[4] J. Li, Y. Liu, and L. Wu, “Optimal operation for community-based multi-
party microgrid in grid-connected and islanded modes,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 756–765, Mar. 2018.
[5] H. Yan, X. Zhou, H. Zhang, F. Yang, and Z. Wu, “A novel sliding mode
estimation for microgrid control with communication time delays,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 1509–1520, Mar. 2019.
[6] E. Mousavinejad, F. Yang, Q. Han, and L. Vlacic, “A novel cyber
attack detection method in networked control systems,” IEEE Trans.
Cybernetics, vol. 48, no. 11, pp. 3254–3264, Nov. 2018.
[7] J. B. Leite and J. R. S. Mantovani, “Development of a self-healing
strategy with multiagent systems for distribution networks,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 2198–2206, Sep. 2017.
[8] X. He, X. Fang, and J. Yu, “Distributed energy management strategy
for reaching cost-driven optimal operation integrated with wind fore-
casting in multimicrogrids system,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern.,
Syst., vol. 49, no. 8, pp. 1643–1651, Aug. 2019.
[9] A. Sharma, D. Srinivasan, and A. Trivedi, “A decentralized multiagent
system approach for service restoration using DG islanding,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 2784–2793, Nov. 2015.
[10] H. Liang, X. Guo, Y. Pan, and T. Huang, “Event-triggered fuzzy bipartite
tracking control for network systems based on distributed reduced-
order observers,” IEEE Trans. Fuzzy Syst., early access, Mar. 23, 2020,
doi: 10.1109/TFUZZ.2020.2982618.
[11] W. Wang, H. Liang, Y. Pan, and T. Li, “Prescribed performance adaptive
fuzzy containment control for nonlinear multiagent systems using dis-
turbance observer,” IEEE Trans. Cybern., vol. 50, no. 9, pp. 3879–3891,
Sep. 2020.
[12] P. Du, Y. Pan, H. Li, and H. Lam, “Nonsingular finite-
time event-triggered fuzzy control for large-scale nonlinear
systems,” IEEE Trans. Fuzzy Syst., early access, May 6, 2020,
doi: 10.1109/TFUZZ.2020.2992632.
[13] G. Jules and M. Saadat, “Agent cooperation mechanism for decentral-
ized manufacturing scheduling,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst.,
vol. 47, no. 12, pp. 3351–3362, Dec. 2017.
[14] D. Croce et al., “Overgrid: A fully distributed demand response architec-
ture based on overlay networks,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Sci. Eng., vol. 14,
no. 2, pp. 471–481, Apr. 2017.
[15] N. Rahbari-Asr, Y. Zhang, and M.-Y. Chow, “Consensus-based dis-
tributed scheduling for cooperative operation of distributed energy
resources and storage devices in smart grids,” IET Gener. Transm.
Distrib., vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 1268–1277, Apr. 2016.
[16] J. E. Rubio, C. Alcaraz, R. Roman, and J. Lopez, “Current cyber-
defense trends in industrial control systems,” Comput. Security, vol. 87,
Nov. 2019, Art. no. 101561.
[17] S. Shaik and S. G. John, “A novel distributed trust model for peer-to-
peer networks,” Int. J. Comput. Eng. Res., vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 267–270,
Oct. 2014.
[18] I. Matei, J. S. Baras, and V. Srinivasan, “Trust-based multi-agent filtering
for increased smart grid security,” in Proc. 20th Mediterr. Conf. Control
Autom. (MED), Barcelona, Spain, 2012, pp. 716–721.
[19] Y. Qin, Q. Zhang, C. Zhou, and N. Xiong, “A risk-based dynamic
decision-making approach for cybersecurity protection in industrial con-
trol systems,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., early access,
Aug. 17, 2018, doi: 10.1109/TSMC.2018.2861715.
[20] A. Farraj, E. Hammad, A. Al Daoud, and D. Kundur, “A game-theoretic
analysis of cyber switching attacks and mitigation in smart grid systems,”
IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 1846–1855, Jul. 2016.
[21] L. Wei, A. I. Sarwat, W. Saad, and S. Biswas, “Stochastic games for
power grid protection against coordinated cyber-physical attacks,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 684–694, Mar. 2018.
[22] W. Xiong, X. Luo, and W. Ma, “Games with ambiguous payoffs and
played by ambiguity and regret minimising players,” in Proc. Aust. Joint
Conf. Artif. Intell., 2012, pp. 409–420.
[23] H. Zhang, J. Wang, D. Yu, J. Han, and T. Li, “Active defense strat-
egy selection based on static Bayesian game,” in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf.
Cybersp. Technol. (CCT), Beijing, China, 2015, pp. 1–7.
[24] K. Huang, C. Zhou, Y. Qin, and W. Tu, “A game-theoretic approach
to cross-layer security decision-making in industrial cyber-physical
systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 67, no. 3, pp. 2371–2379,
Mar. 2020.
[25] M. Larbani, “Non cooperative fuzzy games in normal form: A survey,”
Fuzzy Sets Syst., vol. 160, no. 22, pp. 3184–3210, Nov. 2009.
[26] F. Kacher and M. Larbani, “Existence of equilibrium solution for a non-
cooperative game with fuzzy goals and parameters,” Fuzzy Sets Syst.,
vol. 159, no. 2, pp. 164–176, Jan. 2008.
[27] B. Falahati, Y. Fu, and L. Wu, “Reliability assessment of smart grid
considering direct cyber-power interdependencies,” IEEE Trans. Smart
Grid, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 1515–1524, Sep. 2012.
[28] S. Nakamoto. (2008). Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[29] Y. Yuan and F.-Y. Wang, “Blockchain and cryptocurrencies: Model,
techniques, and applications,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst.,
vol. 48, no. 9, pp. 1421–1428, Sep. 2018.
[30] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, “Security and privacy in decentral-
ized energy trading through multi-signatures, blockchain and anonymous
messaging streams,” IEEE Trans. Depend. Secure Comput., vol. 15,
no. 5, pp. 840–852, Sep./Oct. 2018.
[31] C. Pop, T. Cioara, M. Antal, I. Anghel, I. Salomie, and M. Bertoncini,
“Blockchain based decentralized management of demand response pro-
grams in smart energy grids,” Sensors, vol. 18, no. 1, p. 162, Jan. 2018.
[32] F. Xiang, W. Huaimin, and S. Peichang, “Proof of previous trans-
actions (PoPT): An efficient approach to consensus for JCLedger,”
IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., early access, May 8, 2019,
doi: 10.1109/TSMC.2019.2913007.
[33] M. Du, X. Ma, Z. Zhang, X. Wang, and Q. Chen, “A review on consensus
algorithm of blockchain,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Syst. Man Cybern.
(SMC), Banff, AB, Canada, 2017, pp. 2567–2572.
[34] V. Dhillon, D. Metcalf, and M. Hooper, “Recent developments in
blockchain,” in Blockchain Enabled Applications. Berkeley, CA, USA:
Apress, Jan. 2017, pp. 151–181.
[35] J. C. Harsanyi, “Games with incomplete information played by
’Bayesian’ players, I–III part I. The basic model,” Manag. Sci., vol. 14,
no. 3, pp. 159–182, Nov. 1967.
[36] J. F. Nash, “Equilibrium points in n-person games,” Proc. Nat. Acad.
Sci., vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 48–49, Jan. 1950.
[37] B. Hu, C. Zhou, Y.-C. Tian, Y. Qin, and X. Junping, “A collabora-
tive intrusion detection approach using blockchain for multimicrogrid
systems,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 49, no. 8,
pp. 1720–1730, Aug. 2019.
[38] L. Liu, Y. Liu, D. Li, S. Tong, and Z. Wang, “Barrier Lyapunov function-
based adaptive fuzzy FTC for switched systems and its applications to
resistance–inductance–capacitance circuit system,” IEEE Trans. Cybern.,
vol. 50, no. 8, pp. 3491–3502, Aug. 2020.
[39] L. Liu, Y. Liu, A. Chen, S. Tong, and C. L. P. Chen, “Integral
barrier Lyapunov function-based adaptive control for switched non-
linear systems,” Sci. China F, Inf. Sci., vol. 63, no. 3, Feb. 2020,
Art. no. 132203.
[40] L. Tang, D. Ma, and J. Zhao, “Adaptive neural control for switched
non-linear systems with multiple tracking error constraints,” IET Signal
Process., vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 330–337, May 2019.
[41] X. Li, Y.-C. Tian, G. Ledwich, Y. Mishra, X. Han, and C. Zhou,
“Constrained optimization of multicast routing for wide area control
of smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 3801–3808,
Jul. 2019.
[42] X. Li, Y.-C. Tian, Y. Mishra, G. Ledwich, and C. Zhou, “Minimizing
multicast routing delay in multiple multicast trees with shared links for
smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 5427–5435,
Sep. 2019.
[43] Q. Zhang, C. Zhou, N. Xiong, Y. Qin, X. Li, and S. Huang, “Multimodel-
based incident prediction and risk assessment in dynamic cybersecurity
protection for industrial control systems,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man,
Cybern., Syst., vol. 46, no. 10, pp. 1429–1444, Oct. 2016.
Bowen Hu received the B.S. degree in automation
from Central South University, Changsha, China, in
2015. He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree
in control science and control engineering with the
School of Artificial Intelligence and Automation,
Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China.
His main research interests include industrial con-
trol system, artificial intelligence, and cyber-physical
security of smart grid.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TFUZZ.2020.2982618
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TFUZZ.2020.2992632
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TSMC.2018.2861715
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TSMC.2019.2913007
2198 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SYSTEMS, MAN, AND CYBERNETICS: SYSTEMS, VOL. 51, NO. 4, APRIL 2021
Chunjie Zhou received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in control theory and control engineering from the
Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China, in 1991 and 2001, respectively.
He is currently a Professor with the School of
Artificial Intelligence and Automation, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology. His research
interests include safety and security control of indus-
trial control systems, theory and application of net-
worked control systems, and artificial intelligence.
Yu-Chu Tian (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
first Ph.D. degree in computer and software engi-
neering from the University of Sydney, Sydney,
NSW, Australia, in 2009, and the second Ph.D.
degree in industrial automation from Zhejiang
University, Hangzhou, China, in 1993.
He is currently a Professor with the School
of Computer Science, Queensland University of
Technology, Brisbane, QLD, Australia. His research
interests include big data computing, distributed
computing, cloud computing, computer networks
and communications, real-time systems, systems engineering, and cyber-
physical security of industrial control systems.
Xiaoya Hu (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.S. degree in power engineering and the M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees in control theory and control engi-
neering from the Huazhong University of Science
and Technology, Wuhan, China, in 1995, 2002, and
2006, respectively.
She is currently a Professor with the Key
Laboratory of Ministry of Education for Image
Processing and Intelligent Control, Huazhong
University of Science and Technology. Her research
interests include wireless sensor networks and smart
grid.
Xinjue Junping received the B.S. degree in automa-
tion from China Three Gorges University, Yichang,
China, in 2018. He is currently pursuing the mas-
ter’s degree in new energy science and engineering
with the School of China-EU Institute for Clean and
Renewable Energy, Huazhong University of Science
and Technology, Wuhan, China.
His main research interests include new energy
generation technology and smart grid.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:17:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice