Incoming Metaverses: Digital Mirrors for Urban Planning
Urban Planning (ISSN: 2183–7635)
2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354
https://doi.org/10.17645/up.v7i2.5193
Article
Incoming Metaverses: Digital Mirrors for Urban Planning
Andrew Hudson‐Smith
The Bartlett Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis, University College London, UK; a.hudson‐smith@ucl.ac.uk
Submitted: 17 December 2021 | Accepted: 8 April 2022 | Published: 28 June 2022
Abstract
The planning process has been, arguably, slow to adapt and adopt new technologies: It is perhaps only now that it is start‐
ing to move into a more digitally focused era. Yet, it is not the current thinking around the digital that is going to change
planning; it is the emerging metaverse. It is a change on the near horizon that is there but is currently largely unseen in
the urban planning profession. The metaverse is, at first sight, a mirror to the current world, a digital twin, but it is more
than this: It is an inhabited mirror world where the physical dimensions and rules of time and space do not necessarily
apply. Operating across scales, from the change of use of a building up to a local plan and onwards to the scale of future
cities, these emerging metaverses will exist either directly within computational space or emerge into our physical space
via augmented reality. With economic systems operating via blockchain technology and the ability to instigate aspects of
planning law, interspaced with design fiction type scenarios, they represent a new tool kit for the urban planner, spatial,
economic, and social. We explore these emerging spaces, taking a look at their origins and how the use of game engines
have allowed participation and design to become part of the workflow of these 3D spaces. Via a series of examples, we
look at the current state of the art, explore the short term future, and speculate on digital planning using these incoming
metaverses 10 years from now.
Keywords
digital mirrors; Meta; metaverse; planning; virtual
Issue
This article is part of the issue “Gaming, Simulations, and Planning: Physical and Digital Technologies for Public
Participation in Urban Planning” edited by Andrew Hudson‐Smith (University College London) and Moozhan Shakeri
(University of Twente).
© 2022 by the author(s); licensee Cogitatio (Lisbon, Portugal). This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribu‐
tion 4.0 International License (CC BY).
1. Introduction
The digital toolkit available to the planning professional
is vast. In this article, we explore, through examples,
many personally developed, that multi‐user 3D worlds
and emerging collaborative spaces have the potential to
change how the planning system operates. Yet, the real‐
ity of day to day practice for those involved in the plan‐
ning system, from the professional through to the pub‐
lic at large is a predominance of the use of architectural
drawings, 2D plans, and planning applications published
in PDF. In short, it is as far from the vision of an emerging
metaverse which we explore and suggest is the future
of the digital planning system. Yet, these tools are out
there, ready to be used, being developed by teams build‐
ing digital worlds for virtual reality headsets such as the
Oculus Quest from Meta, the company formerly known
as Facebook. These tools, currently on the edge of the
planning system, have the potential to fundamentally
change how the planning processworks, but they require
a step‐change in thinking by the profession. In April 1997,
an article in The Planner, the monthly publication of the
Royal Town Planning Institute in the UK, was written to
introduce the planning to the then‐emergingWorldWide
Web. Entitled “The World Wide Web: A Guide for the
Urban Planner,” the publication contained a look at visu‐
alisation online, including an early emerging 3D virtual
environment. The article was published but it was reti‐
tled by the then editor as “The World Wide Web: Not
Just for Nerds”; while a mildly assuming title change, it
could be seen, at the time, as reflecting the mood of the
planning community and their view of this new emerging
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 343
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
https://www.cogitatiopress.com/urbanplanning
https://doi.org/10.17645/up.v7i2.5193
technology. Almost 25 years on and the planning profes‐
sion has arguably failed to grasp the concept of digital;
only now is the system coming online with documents
often provided in non‐machine readable formats such as
PDF and the system, arguably, still operating in a simi‐
lar way to back in 1997, albeit with the ability to submit
applications online.
In this article we explore the rise of digital plan‐
ning, with a focus on 3D, collaborative worlds, known as
the metaverse, a term which has perhaps only recently
become notable due to Facebook rebranding itself as
Meta (Bosworth, 2021) and making a notable move
towards developing an occupiedmetaverse. Thesemeta‐
verses have been developing since the early 1990s and
we explore examples we have developed for urban plan‐
ning. However, before exploring the concepts of the
metaverse, it is worth noting the current trends not only
in digital planning but in the wider built environment
profession. Digital twins and the Internet of Things are
arguably the current driving force in the field of the built
environment; these represent two different but overlap‐
ping concepts relating to our representation and under‐
standing of place and space. Firstly, the concept of the
digital twin was initially linked to product manufactur‐
ing by Grieves (2015) in 2002 with the concept of linking
digital versions of manufactured products to their physi‐
cal counterparts throughout their life cycle via a digital
twin concept model. The model, according to Grieves
(2015), consists of threemain parts: (a) physical products
in the real space, (b) virtual products in virtual space, and
(c) the connections of data and information that tie the
virtual and real products together. The concept of digi‐
tal twins can additionally be traced back to the “mirror
world” first promoted by Gelernter (1991) in his semi‐
nal book Mirror Worlds: Or: The Day Software Puts the
Universe in a Shoebox. Gelernter (1991) defines “mir‐
ror worlds” as software models of some chunk of real‐
ity, some piece of the real world going on “outside your
window” which can be represented digitally and then
rescaled again and again into a form that you can enter
andmanipulate. A mirror world is grounded in some real
space and its power comes from the way we manipulate
reality, linking it away from not only a physical product
but into wider places and spaces. Ultimately Gelernter
(1991) predicted that a:
Software model of your city, once set up, will be
available (like a public park) to however many peo‐
ple are interested…it will sustain a million different
views…each visitor will zoom in and pan around and
roam through themodel as he chooses. (Roush, 2007)
This in essence is the basis of the concept of the digital
twin, amirror on theworld, but in software and occupied
by people as they log into the system—a collaborative,
multi‐user digital space, which in turn, once connected
to economic and social factors creates the concept of
the metaverse.
Central to this concept is the definition of “space.”
Bell (1996) identifies three different kinds of space:
visual, informational, and perceptual. Visual space is our
view of physical real space, the space in which urban
planning exists, from the colour and reflection of mate‐
rials up to the construction of reality in which we live.
In essence, as Mitchell (1995) noted, a series of primi‐
tives is made up of points, lines, and polygons, forming
a 2D or 3D arrangement, and it is convenient to think of
visual space as being populated by these tokens. This is
central to the emerging digital twin,mirror worlds, as the
machine—the mirror—needs to recreate these points
lines and polygons in digital form. This is a notable task
and one that is often overlooked in what is perhaps the
current hyperbole on digital twins, that the construction
of digital space is complex, computing‐intensive, and ulti‐
mately expensive.Weexplore the construction of the dig‐
ital mirror in the following sections, firstly exploring an
increasingly important aspect of the digital twin, one of
informational space. In Bell’s (1996) definition, informa‐
tional space is an overlay of the visual space where we
receive information—everything from written signage
through to sound—adding to the vision. As Borgmann
(1999) states, information can illuminate, transform, or
displace reality. In digital space it is the overlay and addi‐
tion of data—data ranging from real‐time feeds on, for
example, environmental conditions or transport informa‐
tion through to the submission of a newplanning applica‐
tion tied to a building, it is this informational space that
is arguably the key aspect of the digital mirror. This is a
crucial aspect as once the informational space is linked to
the visual space it opens up multiple versions of the digi‐
tal twin, depending on the space observed by the human
eye from the digital screen—i.e., levels of reality. These
levels of reality and with them the ability to plan are
central to the development of digital planning. To illus‐
trate where we currently are in the ability to plan digi‐
tally, Figure 1 provides an overview of the current state
of play in the creation of this digital space.
The timeline in Figure 1 moves from traditional plan‐
ning with paper and physical models through to the use
of the internet and online documents and onwards to
the creation of 3D spaces, its link to data, occupying the
space, and then moving towards planning in the meta‐
verse via digital twins. We suggest that the current state
of the art is at the start of the creation of the digital
twin, with the ability to augment space and overlay data
technically possible; we provide examples of such devel‐
opments in the following sections. The reality in rela‐
tion to the planning system is however further back on
the development line, arguably in the networked space
with some more forward planning authorities moving
into 3D data. It is between the networked space and the
digital twins that can be seen as the current level of inno‐
vation. In relation to Bell (1996) and his perceptions of
space, the information space is further augmented by
social space, our social embedment in the digital envi‐
ronment. This ranges from the use of social media to
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 344
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
Physical to Digital Space
Data informa on Space
Representa on of Planning
Level of Immersion
Low HighCurrent Technical BoundaryCurrent Posi on of Digital Planning
Reality
Paper Physical Models PDFs 2D Maps 3D Data Social Data Real- me Data Full Data Stream
Networked Mixed Reality Full Digital Space
Digital Globes
Planning
Portals
Digital Twin
Occupied
Twins
Urban
Mirror
Physical
Models
No ces /
Mee ngs
Augmented Spaces/
Places
Collabora ve
Virtual Reality
Virtual
Worlds
Metaverse
Figure 1. A timeline and current position of digital planning and its move towards the metaverse.
a 3D representation of ourselves in digital space, our
own digital twin. It is the overlapping of these three
types of space—visual, and informational with the addi‐
tion of social—that creates perceptual space. This space,
once created, allows us to perceive place and space and
thus use it for the application of urban planning but
with the benefits of digital. As Benedikt (1996) argues
that because virtual worlds are not real in the material
sense, many of the axioms of topology and geometry so
compellingly observed to be an integral part of nature
can therefore be violated or reinvented as can many of
the laws of physics—creating almost a digital sandpit for
urban planning.
At the time of writing (December 2021) there are
over 160 companies building the metaverse (XR Today,
2021), a term which arguably implies one singular
space, but, in reality, there are many, coexisting meta‐
verses under development. The term metaverse is rel‐
atively new, emerging from Stephenson’s (1992, p. 35)
vision in his novel Snow Crash where he first describes
the metaverse:
As Hiro approaches the Street, he sees two young cou‐
ples, probably using their parents’ computer for a dou‐
ble date in the Metaverse, climbing down out of Port
Zero, which is the local port of entry and monorail
stop. He is not seeing real people of course. This is
all part of the moving illustration drawn by his com‐
puter according to the specification coming down the
fiber‐optic cable. The people are pieces of software
called avatars.
Although this is the first use of the term, taking a step
back from the concept of the Street and Port Zero the
metaverse can perhaps be defined as a digital space with
an economic structure, occupied by avatars, sometimes
mirroring the real world but with multiple representa‐
tions of the physical world and the ability to change time,
physics, and space. Radoff (2021) suggests that themeta‐
verse relies on seven distinct layers:
1. Infrastructure: Connectivity technologies like 5G,
Wi‐Fi, cloud, and hi‐tech materials like GPUs;
2. Human interface: Virtual reality headsets, aug‐
mented reality glasses, haptics, and other tech‐
nologies users will leverage to join the metaverse;
3. Decentralisation: Blockchain, artificial intelli‐
gence, edge computing, and other tools of
democratisation;
4. Spatial computing: 3D visualisation and modelling
frameworks;
5. Creator economy: An assortment of design tools,
digital assets, and e‐commerce establishments;
6. Discovery: The content engine driving engage‐
ment, including ads, social media, ratings, reviews,
etc.;
7. Experiences: Virtual reality equivalents of digital
apps for gaming, events, work, shopping, etc.
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 345
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
It is these concepts and layers that make the metaverse
perhaps the ultimate sandpit for urban planning, the abil‐
ity to shape a world, plan, design, and open it up for con‐
sultation across the professions and the public at large,
regardless of physical location. With the early concept
of collaborative virtual spaces known then as the collab‐
orative virtual design studio (CVDS), Batty et al. (1999)
noted that, although digital worlds may form an entirely
automated form of design and planning, through com‐
putation, there are five key aspects of the process where
digital tools will develop. These involve:
1. Representing the geometric and geographic form
of the system in question in terms of buildings,
streets, land uses, etc., at different geographic and
geometric scales, using different types of media;
2. Modelling movements and relationships between
the various components of the built environment;
3. Enabling the designer to sketch different alternative
designs which address the problem in question;
4. Visualizing the 2D map geometry or geography in
3D at different scales;
5. Tying together all this various software in a
networked participatory digital environment—
a CVDS—where various users might participate
and collaborate in the process of design.
Perhaps the most popular recent reference point for the
metaverse is Ready Player One, the novel by Cline (2011),
adapted, in 2018, into a film directed by Steven Spielberg.
In Cline’s metaverse, the environment is known as
“Oasis,” a utopian virtual environment the population log
into in order to escape the current dystopian real envi‐
ronment. Ball (2021) defines the metaverse as an expan‐
sive network of persistent, real‐time rendered 3Dworlds,
simulations that support continuity of identity, objects,
history, payments, and entitlements, and which can be
experienced synchronously by an effectively unlimited
number of users, each with an individual sense of pres‐
ence. Robertson and Peters (2021) note that the meta‐
verse is an aspirational term for a future digital world that
is more tangibly connected to our real lives and bodies.
They also note the following attributes:
• Feature sets that overlap with older web services
or real‐world activities;
• Real‐time 3D computer graphics and personalized
avatars;
• A variety of person‐to‐person social interactions
that are less competitive and goal‐oriented than
stereotypical games;
• Support for users creating their own virtual items
and environments;
• Links with outside economic systems so people
can profit from virtual goods;
• Designs that seem well‐suited to virtual and aug‐
mented reality headsets, even if they usually sup‐
port other hardware as well.
Despite being in development since the late 1990s, as
we will explore, the term is perhaps at the peak of the
hype cycle. In September 2021, Facebook announced a
$50 million investment in a global research programme
to build the metaverse and, in October 2021, changed
its name to Meta. Andrew Bosworth, the Vice President
of the then Facebook Reality Labs noted in 2021 that
it would take 10 to 15 years to build their vision of the
Metaverse, additionally defining the metaverse as a set
of virtual space where you can create and explore with
other people who are not in the same physical space as
you (Bosworth, 2021).
Before looking at the current state of the art, it is
worth taking a step back to look at past developments in
collaborative 3D spaces for urban planning. These exam‐
ples are from ones we have developed and represent
an ongoing timeline into the development of digital rep‐
resentation in what can be termed “early metaverses.”
Our first example used one of the first popularmulti‐user
world systems in the late 1990s and arguably provided a
first take on developing a metaverse in a system known
as ActiveWorlds (https://www.activeworlds.com).
ActiveWorlds was, and indeed still is, a multiuser
“chat and build” system where objects in the world
can be either imported from external 3D software or
by building “block by block” using cubes and derived
shapes, similar to the now popular Minecraft, which we
explore later in this article. Figure 2 details 30 days in
ActiveWorlds (see Hudson‐Smith, 2002), where an ini‐
tial short term experiment into “online planning” in a
3D space led to the building of a community, full public
participation in the planning process, and a dense net‐
work of streets, houses, and social environments being
built over a year. ActiveWorlds, while still online, main‐
tains the virtual spaces, but is greatly reduced in its num‐
ber of userswith unoccupied spaces as users havemoved
onto the next system. Digital spaces need to be able to
transfer into the next metaverse and while ActiveWorlds
was used for our first urban planning experiments, the
concept moved on to a system known as Second Life.
Second Life, as Jamison (2017) noted, was supposed to
be the future of the internet, a 3D inhabited collabora‐
tive space with millions of people spending many hours
building and shaping a new, occupied world. Set up in
2003 by Linden Labs, Second Life created an online dig‐
ital space covering over 700 square miles in space with
36 million user accounts. Land and objects in the world
were traded using Linden Dollars, an early example of
a digital currency. Jamison’s (2017) article was entitled
“The Digital Ruins of a Forgotten Future” as Second Life
followed ActiveWorlds in being more uninhabited than
habited digital space. In more current developed exam‐
ples, which we explore later, the digital currency is now
crypto, with land being traded and sold above the equiv‐
alent physical cost.
In 2007, the University College London’s Barlett
Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis (CASA) partnered
with Nature Publishing and their Second Nature Island to
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 346
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
https://www.activeworlds.com
Figure 2. Fashioning the CVDS in which users appear as avatars and are able to manipulate the elements of their environ‐
ment, c. 1999.
provide early examples of placing urban planning exam‐
ples via its then Virtual London project in a collabora‐
tive virtual environment. Figure 3 details two avatars in
Second Life within a block model of a part of London.
The model could be queried for data, such as land use,
and manipulated to show possible development options.
Beyond the block model are step inside globes, to pro‐
vide immersive photographic urban landscapes, cap‐
tured in a similar way to the now familiar Google Street
View. Land in Second Life was built block by block and,
as Batty et al. (2009) state, although Linden Labs devel‐
oped the program, it is the population of avatars that is
creating the hamlets and towns that form its 750 square
kilometres and its economy. Millions of Linden Dollars
Figure 3. Building virtual London in Second Life.
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 347
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
change hands every month for the goods and services
residents create and provide. This unit‐of‐trade may
then be bought and sold on LindeX (Second Life’s offi‐
cial Linden Dollar exchange), or other unaffiliated third
party sites where real currency changes hands (Linden
Labs, 2007). Currency in the new emerging worlds has
become all‐important, as can be seen, for example, in
Decentraland (see Ordano et al., 2017). As Goldberg et al.
(2021) note, it was created as the first large‐scale virtual
world, built on a public blockchain and smart contract
infrastructure. This is beyond the scope of this article but
of note is the price of land in these emergingmetaverses.
While in Second Life whole islands could be purchased
for a minimal amount for urban planning experimenta‐
tions, the price of land could become a restricting factor
in the creation of digital twins. Indeed, in Decentraland,
a 96‐square meter plot had a market value of $13,000
with the most expensive real estate selling for $4.3 mil‐
lion (Dailey, 2022).
In these newworlds, the population is in flux as users
can “jack in” and “jack out,” to adopt the now remerging
terminology of themetaverse and Snow Crash. In August
2007, 23 million man‐hours were spent in Second Life;
the time was spent by over 974,000 users, with an aver‐
age of 23.6 hours per user. Hof (2006) stated that as the
residents spend:
A total of nearly 23,000 hours a day creating things, it
would take a paid 4,100‐person software team to do
all that. Think of it: The company charges customers
anywhere from $6 to thousands of dollars a month
for the privilege of doing most of the work….In other
words, your next cubicle could well be inside a vir‐
tual world.
ActiveWorlds, Second Life, andmany others laid the foun‐
dation for the current state of play and the reemergence
of the term “metaverse.” The concept is the same: a col‐
laborative, occupied virtual space where users can build
anything, own land, edit, and inhabit the environment.
Arguably, it is the future of digital urban planning; the
hard part is building it, which we explore next.
2. Building the Mirror
The construction of digital space for the use of urban
planning is a specialised topic. From a UK point of view,
the current curriculum to become a member of the
Royal Town Planning Institute, and thus a qualified urban
planner, is notably lacking in digital skills and incorpo‐
rates almost no reference to 3D modelling. This will of
course change, but, at the present time, the skillset is
multi‐faceted. The first requirement for any true digi‐
tal representation for use in urban planning, we would
argue, is a 3D model of the environment—just past the
current state of play in our timeline of digital planning
(Figure 1). These environments form the basis of either
recreating the space via photogrammetry methods or
more standard computer‐aided design. Both methods
are time‐consuming and expensive when looking at the
urban planning system and thus have developed as a
“service” mode by companies providing access to digital
models. One typical example is VU.CITY, providing access
to 3D models for both architects and urban planners.
Figure 4 illustrates a subset of their London model, for
which they also use the term “digital twin.”
From the ability to import designs, see protected
views, overlay data from GIS through to height and
massing assessments, and the ability to annotate and
Create or import designs securely and
analyse them in situ
Add, search and explore and
proposed developments
Real �me transport overlays LVMF protected views Overlay historic buildings, borough
boundary and GIS data
Provide AVR scope to determine which
views to assess
Figure 4. VU.CITY 3D London model with example applications and data overlays. Note: AVR—Acurate visual representa‐
tion; LVMF—Landscape visual impact assesment.
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 348
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
collaborate on projects with notes and images, the sys‐
tem provides access to urban planners to a full 3Dmodel.
As noted by VU.CITY (2021), one such example is its work
in the London Borough of Southwark, where it is helping
the borough design and test ideas for the development
and growth in the area over the next 20 years by provid‐
ing locations for 20,000 new homes; revitalising the high
street with shopping and town centre facilities; assess‐
ing the design and heights of buildings and spaces; creat‐
ing improvements for pedestrians and cyclists, including
new links and making existing routes safer; and improv‐
ing public transport, which includes an extension to the
Bakerloo Line and two new underground stations. These
are core planning functions, being carried out, digitally
with access to the 3D dimensional model.
The service level model is perhaps inevitable due
to the ongoing debate on the cost vs. the use of a 3D
model. The Ordnance Survey, the UK’s national map‐
ping agency, has perhaps lost the edge it had in provid‐
ing data for use by urban planners, with 3D not being
seen as a priority. While this is understandable with the
inevitable resource constraints, in terms of the incom‐
ing metaverse and the newly emerging digital environ‐
ments and marketplaces for trusted data providers, the
focus on still representing our environment in 2D is, in
our view, concerning. At the same time, it indirectly
constrains the urban planning system as the Ordnance
Survey remains themain provider of location‐based data
with the gap being filled by third‐party providers and
thus without the quality assurance and standards that
come as part of data being provided by a national map‐
ping agency.
At the other end of the spectrum from national map‐
ping agencies and service providers are the smaller devel‐
opment teams. One such example is our own ongo‐
ing development of the Virtual London model at CASA,
which is taking it to the next step, while still using the
same concepts as we noted in the CVDS in ActiveWorlds.
The model, known as ViLo, builds it on earlier research
at CASA into the creation of a comprehensive 3D model
of London’s built environment (Batty & Hudson‐Smith,
2005). The currentmodel supplements static spatial data
about the cities’ built environment and infrastructure
with dynamic elements representing different kinds of
events as they occur in real‐time. Buses, tubes, and
trains can be seen moving across the city while more
abstract visualisations show the locations and availability
of different services like bikes at local bike‐share stations.
Sensors transmitting data about environmental factors
can also be accessed to show changes in natural phe‐
nomena ranging from variations in local microclimate to
the patterns in behaviour of particular wildlife species
(Dawkins, 2017). Figure 5 illustrates the ViLo model with
the inclusion of real‐time transport data. The model was
developed as an early proof of the concept of a digi‐
tal twin, in 2017, in association with the Future Cities
Catapult, a government‐funded organisationwith a focus
on exploring cities in the UK. The model was arguably
ahead of its time with the inclusion of above ground and
underground data allowing not only urban planning type
scenarios but also operational use in an urban context.
The systemwas focused on the Queen Elizabeth Olympic
Park, in East London, a region of new development with
a mix of uses.
Figure 5. The ViLo digital twin model with real‐time data.
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 349
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
Developed in cooperation with the Mayor of
London’s Smart London Board it operated across a num‐
ber of platforms, covering desktop usage, virtual real‐
ity, and augmented reality. This is possible due to the
development infrastructure being focused on Unity, a
cross‐platform game engine designed to support and
develop 2D and 3D video games, simulations for com‐
puters virtual reality, consoles, and mobile devices plat‐
forms (Unity, 2017). The availability of game engine tech‐
nologies is beginning to bring together the multiple pro‐
fessions involved in creating the built environment, from
architects to surveyors, urban designers, and back to
the urban planner. The main players at the current time
are both Unity and Unreal (another game engine), offer‐
ing access to the ability to import and visualise data
relating to the built environment. It is still in its infancy
but the game engine provides the catalyst for an inte‐
grated visualisation system. This is required due to the
current arguably similar but diverse worlds from build‐
ing information systems through to GIS, working at dif‐
ferent scales but with location and data at the centre of
both systems. In the geographic information arena, one
should note that, in late 2020, ESRI released anopenbeta
release of their ArcGIS maps software development kit
for both Unity and Unreal Engine. As the vice president
of Unity, Julien Faure, states:
As gaming technology is increasingly adopted in many
industrial sectors including AEC, government, energy,
and transportation, we are excited to partner with
ESRI to bridge the world of GIS and real‐time 3D.
The addition of ESRI’s best‐in‐class real‐world geospa‐
tial data into Unity’s real‐time 3D development plat‐
form will help create real‐time digital twins of an
unprecedented scale, to better operate and manage
massive infrastructure and entire cities in immersive
environments. (Hansen, 2020)
We illustrate an early example of this in Figure 6.
The examples thus far have concentrated on using
3D systems to import more traditional digital urban data,
in the form of building footprints, height data, etc., to
create the urban mirror. This is a development in the
timeline of computer‐aided design software and the nat‐
ural integration of GIS along with themerging of building
information systems. Using similar technologies but in a
directly opposite manner (which could be argued as its
own mirror) is the development of urban space directly
within computer games, to which we briefly turn.
Minecraft is an open‐ended “sandbox” game
designed by Markus Persson and published by Mojang,
where players build constructions of textured cubes in
a world with its own laws of physics (Overby & Jones,
2015). It is perhaps the best example of urban space cre‐
ated in a gaming environment by the players. Currently
owned by Microsoft and available across multiple gam‐
ing platforms, as of April 2021 there were up to 139 mil‐
lion monthly active players with 238 copies of the game
sold worldwide (Microsoft, 2021). The system has been
compared to digital LEGO (Olmedo, 2013). The LEGO
comparison is not just due to the block‐based nature of
Minecraft, but also a reference to its open‐endedness
(Hervé & Salge, 2021). Operating in a virtual space,
the dimensions of Minecraft consist of over 3.6 billion
square kilometres, or seven times the size of planet Earth
(Milakovic, 2021).
These online virtual environments, or metaverses,
operate in their own space, limited only by the physical
Figure 6. New York GIS data in the Unreal game engine via ArcGIS.
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 350
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
characteristics of the physical hardware they run on.
Minecraft additionally crosses over into physical space
via its Minecraft Earth iteration. Working via augmented
reality, it links a real‐world location to digital space to
overlay information. Such overlaps fall into the genre
defined by Ahlqvist et al. (2018) as GIS–multiplayer
online games (GIS‐MOG). These in addition fall within
the remit of geogames—games with a spatial aspect.
de Andrade et al. (2020) summarising the work of Yamu
et al. (2019) define the characteristics of geogames as:
(a) anchorage in a certain place, in which the game envi‐
ronment and spatial components can be represented
and visualized; (b) focus on solving a spatial problem rel‐
evant to the citizens of the selected place; (c) inclusion
of rules and elements of enjoyment to attract citizens to
play and continue to return to the game; and (d) enabling
the engagement and participation of citizens in an urban
planning process.
Underlining the potential of Minecraft to build
the urban mirror is the BuildTheEarth project, where
over 210,000 people participated in one Minecraft
mega‐project (BuildTheEarth, 2020). Figure 7 illustrates
New York City in Minecraft, illustrating the output of
BuildTheEarth.
Minecraft is arguably the most used metaverse
for urban planning, especially in developing countries,
thanks to the work of the United Nations habitat pro‐
gramme Block by Block. The first workshop by Block
by Block was held in 2021 in Nairobi after technical
models and architectural drawings proved to be assess‐
able and unengaging in local forums (Arnarsdóttir, 2020).
Von Puttkamer (2020) notes that the rationale for using
Minecraft is twofold: It is very appealing for younger
generations, who can be included in urban topics and
participatory processes via the game, and it is a very
easy tool to use. The audience of Block by Block projects
is very mixed and often consists of all age groups and
different religions. Within 20 minutes, it is possible to
teach even illiterate people to move blocks around in
the game. It arguably allows the urban form to become
accessible and proposed changes understandable and—
perhaps more importantly—editable. Bjarke Ingels, a
Danish architect, notes in Winston (2015) that these fic‐
tional worlds empower people with the tools to trans‐
form their own environments and that this is what archi‐
tecture ought to be. As the side by side view of the com‐
munity housing in Figure 8 and the work by Block by
Block illustrates, Minecraft can be used successfully to
create a twin of the physical world and allow it to be used
for future planning. Compared to more traditional archi‐
tectural models the worlds built in Minecraft are rough
and blocky, giving an approximation of space and place.
It is perhaps this approximation that makes it so success‐
ful: It focuses on the overall impression of the urban
environment rather than the fine details. Block by block,
Minecraft is building a digital mirror of the real world but
in an abstract form; it is this form, along with its playful
aspect, that has made it the most successful 3D platform
for the built environment.
Location is the key factor across the multiple genres:
As Ahlqvist et al. (2018) noted, in terms of GIS‐MOG, loca‐
tion in the game is important in the same way that loca‐
tion is important in geography. Location in building the
digital mirror is important, not only in terms of knowing
where the “player,” “avatar,” or “user” are but equally
in terms of representing the place and space in terms of
points, lines, and pixels. It is this representation that is
central to the building of the digital mirror.
Figure 7. BuildTheEarth New York City. Source: BuildTheEarth (2020).
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 351
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
Figure 8. Block by block mirroring community housing.
3. Multiple Mirrors
Digital twins, and with them the emerging metaverses,
are being built piecemeal, in multiple pieces of soft‐
ware, visualised in multiple ways, and often replicated
by multiple people at the same time. Each city around
the world has multiple 3D models, developed either by
municipalities,multinational companies, architects, local
companies, academics, or simply interested individuals.
Combined with these multiple representations are the
multiple emerging platforms. The metaverse will poten‐
tially follow the growth of the World Wide Web, which
grew rapidly by linking together individual hosted pages,
which in terms of the metaverse will be the introduction
of a “platform” linking together representations of place
and space. Facebook (Meta) arguably have the view of
a single platform, while games such as Minecraft exist in
their ownmicrocosmand individual examples exist in the
current flow of open standards.
These environments are becoming graphically inten‐
sive; the technology is in place now whereas in 2002,
with our early examples, it was niche. Worlds, meta‐
verses, came, were occupied and then abandoned with
early urban planning examples still existing somewhere
in digital space, on a long‐unused server. Yet, some of the
largest global companies are now behind the next move
into the metaverse, digital twins are being built, and the
edge of the technical boundary in Figure 1 is arguably a
decade away from a true, occupied digital mirror world.
The blip on the horizon for urban planningmay be simple
economics, with the system cost out of representation
or experimentation in these emerging spaces which are
now increasingly driven by cryptocurrencies. However,
withmore than 160 incomingmetaverses under develop‐
ment and digital planning finally gainingmomentum, the
use of game engines, avatars, collaborative design stu‐
dios, and others may finally have reached its time and
the current state of play we illustrated in Figure 1 will
start to move towards the metaverse. What is needed to
ensure this happens is a realisation from the practice of
urban planning that digital technologies, game engines,
and even background infrastructures such as cryptocur‐
rencies need to become part of the planning curriculum.
With this, the next generation of urban planners can lead
the way into these emerging metaverses; without it, it
will forever be playing catch up to technology and risks
long term being a profession lost to the Digital Mirror
rather than embracing it, in a similar point to where we
started, back in 1997 and it turned out the World Wide
Web was not just for nerds.
Acknowledgments
The work of the wider team at The Bartlett, Centre
for Advanced Spatial Analysis, University College London
is noted, especially in terms of the ViLO Model —
Gareth Simons, Lyzette Zeno Cortes, Valerio Signorelli,
Kostas Cheliotis, Oliver Dawkins, and Jascha Grübel. ViLo
was developed in collaboration with The Future Cities
Catapult (FCC) and the London Legacy Development
Corporation, Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park.
Conflict of Interests
The author declares no conflict of interests.
References
Ahlqvist, O., Joshi, S., Benkar, R., Vatev, K., Ramnath, R.,
Heckler, A., & Soundarajan, N. (2018). Defining
a geogame genre using core concepts of games,
play, and geographic information and thinking. In
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 352
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
O. Ahlqvist & C. Schlieder (Eds.), Geogames and geo‐
play: Game‐based approaches to the analysis of geo‐
information (pp. 19–35). Springer.
Arnarsdóttir, H. (2020). Using Minecraft as an urban
planning tool in developing countries. Pop‐Up City.
https://popupcity.net/observations/using‐minecraft‐
as‐an‐urban‐planning‐tool‐in‐developing‐countries
Ball, M. (2021). Framework for the metaverse. Matthew‐
Ball.vc. https://www.matthewball.vc/all/forwardto
themetaverseprimer
Batty, M., Dodge, M., Jiang, B., & Hudson‐Smith, A.
(1999). Geographical information systems and urban
design. In J. Stilwell, S. Geertman, & S. Openshaw
(Eds.), Geographical information and planning: Euro‐
pean perspectives (pp. 43–65). Springer.
Batty, M., & Hudson‐Smith, A. (2005). Urban simulacra:
London. Architectural Design, 75(6), 42‐47. https://
doi.org/10.1002/ad.170
Batty, M., Hudson‐Smith, A., Milton, R., & Dearden, J.
(2009). The neogeography of virtual cities: Digitalmir‐
rors into a recursive world. In M. Foth (Ed.), Hand‐
book of research on urban informatics: The practice
and promise of the real‐time city (pp. 270–290). IGI
Global.
Bell, J. (1996). Architecture of the virtual community
[Master’s thesis, University of Wales].
Benedikt, M. (1996). The information in space is the
space in information. In A. Michelson & F. Stjernfelt
(Eds.), Billeder fra det fjerne [Images from afar] (pp.
161–172). Akademisk Volrag.
Borgmann, A. (1999). Holding on to reality: The nature
of information at the turn of the millennium. The Uni‐
versity of Chicago Press.
Bosworth, A. (2021). Building the metaverse respon‐
sibly. Meta. https://about.fb.com/news/2021/09/
building‐the‐metaverse‐responsibly
BuildTheEarth. (2020). New York—MineFact network.
https://buildtheearth.net/bte‐new‐york
Cline, E. (2011). Ready player one. Century.
Dailey, N. (2022). The cheapest price of metaverse
land you can buy is a whopping $11,000. Market
Insider. https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/
currencies/metaverse‐land‐plots‐decentraland‐
sandbox‐selling‐for‐11000‐2022‐1
Dawkins, O. (2017, July 19‐24). Opening urban mirror
worlds: Possibilities for participation in digital urban
dataspaces [Paper presentation]. Whose Right to the
Smart City, Plymouth, UK.
de Andrade, B., Poplin, A., & de Sena, Í. S. (2020).
Minecraft as a tool for engaging children in urban
planning: A case study in Tirol Town, Brazil. ISPRS
International Journal of Geo‐Information, 9(3), Arti‐
cle 170. https://doi.org/10.3390/ijgi9030170
Gelernter, D. (1991).Mirror worlds: Or: The day software
puts the universe in a shoebox…How it will happen
and what it will mean. Oxford University Press.
Goldberg, M., Kugler, P., & Schär, F. (2021). Land valua‐
tion in themetaverse: Locationmatters. SSRN. http://
dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3932189
Grieves, M. (2015). Digital twin: Manufacturing excel‐
lence through virtual factory replication. 3DS. https://
www.3ds.com/fileadmin/PRODUCTS‐SERVICES/
DELMIA/PDF/Whitepaper/DELMIA‐APRISO‐Digital‐
Twin‐Whitepaper.pdf
Hansen, R. (2020). Bridging the world of 3D GIS and
game engines. ESRI. https://www.esri.com/about/
newsroom/arcuser/bridging‐the‐world‐of‐3d‐gis‐
and‐game‐engines
Hervé, J. B., & Salge, C. (2021). Comparing PCG metrics
with Human evaluation in Minecraft settlement gen‐
eration. ArXiv. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.
02457
Hof, R. (2006). A virtual worlds real dollars. Bloomberg
Business.
Hudson‐Smith, A. (2002). 30 days in active worlds: Com‐
munity, design and terrorism in a virtual world. In
R. Schroeder (Ed.), The social life of avatars: Pres‐
ence and interaction in shared virtual environments
(pp. 77–89). Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978‐
1‐4471‐0277‐9_5
Jamison, L. (2017, December 1). The digital ruins of
a forgotten future. The Atlantic. https://www.
theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/12/second‐
life‐leslie‐jamison/544149
Linden Labs. (2007). Economic statistics.
Microsoft. (2021, April 27). Earnings release FY21 Q3
[Press release]. https://www.microsoft.com/en‐us/
Investor/earnings/FY‐21‐Q3/press‐release‐webcast
Milakovic, H. (2021). How big is Minecraft? Is it
really bigger than earth. Fiction Horizon. https://
fictionhorizon.com/how‐big‐is‐minecraft
Mitchell, W. J. (1995). City of bits: Space, place and the
infobahn. MIT Press.
Olmedo, H. (2013). Virtuality continuum’s state of the art.
Procedia Computer Science, 25, 261–270. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.11.032
Ordano, E., Meilich, A., Jardi, Y., & Araoz, M.
(2017). Decentraland: A blockchain‐based vir‐
tual world. Decentraland. https://decentraland.org/
whitepaper.pdf
Overby, A., & Jones, B. L. (2015). Virtual LEGOs: Incor‐
porating Minecraft into the art education curricu‐
lum. Art Education, 68(1), 21–27. https://doi.org/
10.1080/00043125.2015.11519302
Radoff, J. (2021). Building the metaverse. Medium.
https://medium.com/building‐the‐metaverse
Robertson, A., & Peters, J. (2021).What is the metaverse,
and do I have to care? One part definition, one part
aspiration, one part hype. The Verge. https://www.
theverge.com/22701104/metaverse‐explained‐
fortnite‐roblox‐facebook‐horizon
Roush,W. (2007, June 18). Second Earth.MIT Technology
Review. https://www.technologyreview.com/2007/
06/18/272040/second‐earth
Stephenson, N. (1992). Snow crash. Bantam Books.
Unity. (2017). Homepage. https://unity.com
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 353
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
https://popupcity.net/observations/using-minecraft-as-an-urban-planning-tool-in-developing-countries
https://popupcity.net/observations/using-minecraft-as-an-urban-planning-tool-in-developing-countries
https://www.matthewball.vc/all/forwardtothemetaverseprimer
https://www.matthewball.vc/all/forwardtothemetaverseprimer
https://doi.org/10.1002/ad.170
https://doi.org/10.1002/ad.170
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/09/building-the-metaverse-responsibly
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/09/building-the-metaverse-responsibly
https://buildtheearth.net/bte-new-york
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/currencies/metaverse-land-plots-decentraland-sandbox-selling-for-11000-2022-1
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/currencies/metaverse-land-plots-decentraland-sandbox-selling-for-11000-2022-1
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/currencies/metaverse-land-plots-decentraland-sandbox-selling-for-11000-2022-1
https://doi.org/10.3390/ijgi9030170
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3932189
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3932189
https://www.3ds.com/fileadmin/PRODUCTS-SERVICES/DELMIA/PDF/Whitepaper/DELMIA-APRISO-Digital-Twin-Whitepaper.pdf
https://www.3ds.com/fileadmin/PRODUCTS-SERVICES/DELMIA/PDF/Whitepaper/DELMIA-APRISO-Digital-Twin-Whitepaper.pdf
https://www.3ds.com/fileadmin/PRODUCTS-SERVICES/DELMIA/PDF/Whitepaper/DELMIA-APRISO-Digital-Twin-Whitepaper.pdf
https://www.3ds.com/fileadmin/PRODUCTS-SERVICES/DELMIA/PDF/Whitepaper/DELMIA-APRISO-Digital-Twin-Whitepaper.pdf
https://www.esri.com/about/newsroom/arcuser/bridging-the-world-of-3d-gis-and-game-engines
https://www.esri.com/about/newsroom/arcuser/bridging-the-world-of-3d-gis-and-game-engines
https://www.esri.com/about/newsroom/arcuser/bridging-the-world-of-3d-gis-and-game-engines
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.02457
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2107.02457
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4471-0277-9_5
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4471-0277-9_5
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/12/second-life-leslie-jamison/544149
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/12/second-life-leslie-jamison/544149
https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2017/12/second-life-leslie-jamison/544149
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/Investor/earnings/FY-21-Q3/press-release-webcast
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/Investor/earnings/FY-21-Q3/press-release-webcast
https://fictionhorizon.com/how-big-is-minecraft
https://fictionhorizon.com/how-big-is-minecraft
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.11.032
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2013.11.032
https://decentraland.org/whitepaper.pdf
https://decentraland.org/whitepaper.pdf
https://doi.org/10.1080/00043125.2015.11519302
https://doi.org/10.1080/00043125.2015.11519302
https://medium.com/building-the-metaverse
https://www.theverge.com/22701104/metaverse-explained-fortnite-roblox-facebook-horizon
https://www.theverge.com/22701104/metaverse-explained-fortnite-roblox-facebook-horizon
https://www.theverge.com/22701104/metaverse-explained-fortnite-roblox-facebook-horizon
https://www.technologyreview.com/2007/06/18/272040/second-earth
https://www.technologyreview.com/2007/06/18/272040/second-earth
https://unity.com
Von Puttkamer, L. (2020). Gamification in planning—Fun
and virtual participatory planning with Minecraft &
Co. LabGov.City. http://labgov.city/theurbanmedia
lab/gamification‐in‐planning‐fun‐and‐virtual‐
participatory‐planning‐with‐minecraft‐co
VU.CITY. (2021). London. https://vu.city/cities/london
Winston, A. (2015, January 26). Architecture should be
more like Minecraft. Dezeen. https://www.dezeen.
com/2015/01/26/architecture‐minecraft‐bjarke‐
ingels‐big‐movie‐worldcraft‐future‐of‐storytelling
XR Today. (2021). Who is building this metaverse?
A group of 160+ companies, and you. https://www.
xrtoday.com/virtual‐reality/who‐is‐building‐the‐
metaverse‐a‐group‐of‐160‐companies‐and‐you
Yamu, C., Poplin, A., Devisch, O., & De Roo, G. (Eds.).
(2019). The virtual and the real in planning and
urban design perspectives, practices and applica‐
tions. Routledge.
About the Author
AndrewHudson‐Smith is professor of digital urban systems at the Bartlett Centre for Advanced Spatial
Analysis, University College London.
Urban Planning, 2022, Volume 7, Issue 2, Pages 343–354 354
https://www.cogitatiopress.com
http://labgov.city/theurbanmedialab/gamification-in-planning-fun-and-virtual-participatory-planning-with-minecraft-co
http://labgov.city/theurbanmedialab/gamification-in-planning-fun-and-virtual-participatory-planning-with-minecraft-co
http://labgov.city/theurbanmedialab/gamification-in-planning-fun-and-virtual-participatory-planning-with-minecraft-co
https://vu.city/cities/london
https://www.dezeen.com/2015/01/26/architecture-minecraft-bjarke-ingels-big-movie-worldcraft-future-of-storytelling
https://www.dezeen.com/2015/01/26/architecture-minecraft-bjarke-ingels-big-movie-worldcraft-future-of-storytelling
https://www.dezeen.com/2015/01/26/architecture-minecraft-bjarke-ingels-big-movie-worldcraft-future-of-storytelling
https://www.xrtoday.com/virtual-reality/who-is-building-the-metaverse-a-group-of-160-companies-and-you
https://www.xrtoday.com/virtual-reality/who-is-building-the-metaverse-a-group-of-160-companies-and-you
https://www.xrtoday.com/virtual-reality/who-is-building-the-metaverse-a-group-of-160-companies-and-you
	1 Introduction
	2 Building the Mirror
	3 Multiple Mirrors