Microsoft Word - JSIR-1572
Journal of Scientific & Industrial Research 
Vol. 82, January 2023, pp. 50-62 
DOI: 10.56042/jsir.v82i1.69929
An Integrated Secure Scalable Blockchain Framework for IoT Communications 
G Chandra Sekhar1* & R Aruna2 
1Vel Tech Rangarajan Dr. Sagunthala R & D Institute of Science and Technology, Chennai 600 062, Tamil Nadu, India
2Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Vel Tech Rangarajan Dr. Sagunthala R & D Institute of Science and Technology, 
Chennai 600 062, Tamilnadu, India 
Received 10 June 2022; revised 24 September 2022; accepted 06 October 2022 
The Internet of Things (IoT) has shown great promise in the years since its invention and widespread acceptance by 
demonstrating its ability to adapt and improve manual processes while bringing them into the digital age. IoT's capacity to 
do so has elevated it to the ranks of the most promising technologies of our time. Despite the fact that IPv4 and IPv6 are 
being utilized to serve a growing number of devices in IoT connectivity, there are still issues with address space allocation 
and other security concerns, including scalability and poor access control methods. It is necessary to go through these 
difficulties and worries. Both of these organizations have spent a considerable amount of time in the vanguard of 
advancement in the study of IoT and Blockchain technology. Since IoT devices are capable of efficient two-way 
communication, integrating Blockchain technology is challenging. However, scalability is the biggest obstacle. The IoT 
Blockchain Framework discussed in the research article has the potential to be a game-changing solution to the issues that 
IoTs currently face, provided that it is used properly. Data access control and data interchange, transparency, and scalability 
without compromising privacy or dependability are all issues with the IoT paradigm that Blockchain technology may be 
able to efficiently address. Creating a local index that is scalable and does not interfere with either the local or global peer 
validation procedures is one way to limit the number of transactions that contact the global Blockchain. According to the 
findings, the blocks are significantly lighter and smaller than those seen in other parts of the world.  
Keywords: Internet of things, Large scale IoT framework, Lpeer, Scalability 
Introduction 
Depending on the circumstances, the Internet of 
Things (IoT) can serve a variety of functions in a 
variety of contexts. A few examples of items include 
medical equipment, nuclear power plants, and 
straightforward sensors for use around the house. The 
Internet of Things, often known as IoT, is an 
architecture for a dynamic global network that is built 
on open and interoperable communication protocols 
(IoT). According to Xu et al.1 a straightforward 
internet-enabled communication architecture ought to 
be developed from a network of embedded sensors 
that are connected to the internet. Prior to the 
introduction of smart contracts, Blockchain 
technology was mostly seen as a tool for managing 
databases or transferring information.2 However, 
this perception has been completely upended. 
Distributed systems get an additional boost from 
smart contracts, which are programmers that may run 
without human intervention and are stored on 
Blockchains. This topic has piqued the interest of a 
significant number of companies and developers 
working in the IoT sector. 
Many IoT applications have been developed, 
including smart healthcare3,4 smart agriculture 4,5, 
smart housing5,6 wearables6,7 augmented reality8,9 and 
transportation9,10. The IoT is made up of Internet 
protocols and sensor networks, which make it 
possible for machines and other inanimate objects to 
talk to each other. Data protection is an essential 
component of any communication; centralized 
communication systems and client-server 
communication both carry the risk of exposing 
sensitive information to unauthorized parties. The 
disadvantageous tendency of the centralized 
computing model is that it tends to favor a large 
number of decentralized data centers, which causes a 
major demand on the processing, storage, and 
networking resources. Because of this, employing the 
conventional centralized communication models for 
activities like data-based communications, storage, 
and exploration that include billions of devices is 
practically unfeasible. With more embedded devices 
and networks that connect to the IoT, privacy and 
safety are now major concerns. Developing a secure 
—————— 
*Author for Correspondence
E-mail: sekhar.gillala@gmail.com
SEKHAR & ARUNA: BLOCKCHAIN FRAMEWORK FOR IOT COMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
51 
IoT framework includes various issues, summarized 
as follows: 
Scalability: An Internet of Things system allows a 
large number of sensors, actuators, and other devices 
to be connected with one another for the purpose of 
sharing information and running a variety of 
applications through the web. It makes it hard to 
design and build a system that can adapt to people's 
changing needs and environments. This is also called 
scalability and adaptability.  
Heterogeneity and Resource Limitedness: 
Traditional security methods, approaches, and 
services are not always appropriate for IoT devices 
and communications networks because of the variety 
of these environments and the limited resources 
available. Also, because IoT devices have limited 
resources, it would be hard to use modern security 
strategies to protect them.  
Transparency: Users should not be made aware of 
the complex features that may be hidden by a secure 
framework. The deployment must be completely 
silent and must be able to "plug and play." Both the 
IoT and Blockchain technologies have dominated 
their respective research domains for a considerable 
amount of time. The IoT enables the employment of 
automated systems in a variety of different 
businesses, while Blockchain technology enables the 
processing of safe transactions for assets. Integrating 
IoT devices with Blockchain technology is the natural 
next step to enable IoT devices to create transactions. 
The scalability of the ledger and the speed at which 
trades can be carried out on the Blockchain are the 
two primary problems that are linked with this 
integration. Because there are so many of them, IoT 
devices can execute transactions far more quickly 
than traditional Blockchain technology. Because of 
limited resource availability, integrating IoT devices 
with Blockchain peers might be a difficult process. It 
is not possible to directly include either of these 
technologies at this time due to the way in which they 
are deployed. Our research suggests a solution to 
these issues, which entails the formation of a peer-to-
peer network in the immediate area. While peer 
approval of transactions is maintained at both the 
local and global levels, the network makes use of a 
local ledger to limit the number of transactions that 
are added to the global Blockchain. 
The primary focus of this paper is on a framework 
for IoT devices as well as a Blockchain-based system 
in which all IoT devices are linked to an organization 
and are certified by a local Certificate Authority (CA).  
In addition, rather than utilizing a worldwide 
Blockchain network, it intends to link to an anchor 
peer in the global network by utilizing a local peer, 
also known as a Lpeer. This system has two primary 
objectives: the first is to assist the global Blockchain 
network in increasing the speed of transaction 
processing; the second is to reduce the amount of 
ledger storage that is required at each peer. The 
design limits the size of the ledger and splits it up 
between Lpeer and the anchor peer through the use of 
an intraorganizational transaction. This is done while 
maintaining the consistency of the peer validation. 
Blockchain technology, which has 100% peer 
validation from an international peer network, can be 
used to check transactions between organizations.11 
This paper's primary contribution is the development 
of a novel framework for enabling Blockchain 
scalability in terms of ledger size and transaction rate. 
This framework is the focus of the development of an 
Integrated Secure Scalable IoT Blockchain for IoT 
transactions, which is the main contribution of this 
paper. 
 
Background and Related Works 
To begin, we provide some background 
information regarding the sorts of Blockchains, the 
uses they have, and the problems they cause in IoT. 
Additionally, it emphasizes the research that is 
pertinent to the topic. 
 
Blockchain Types 
Based on the several applications and their needs, 
Blockchain can be classified into four types as 
summarized in Table 1. (8) 
 
Blockchain for IoT 
Both the IoT and Blockchain technology have  
risen to popularity since their respective inventions. 
Table 1 — Blockchain classifications 
Types of Blockchain Network type Features  
Public Blockchain Permissionless  Open network; Free access; No permission; Shared ledger; Full transparency  
Private Blockchain Permissioned  Closed network; DLT authority; On permission; Shared ledger; Full transparency  
Federated Blockchain Pre-selected nodes Organization; Group access; On permission; Shared ledger; Transparency 
Hybrid Blockchain Public & private  Organization; Mixed access; Restrictions; Mixed ledgers; Semi-transparent  
J SCI IND RES VOL 82 JANUARY 2023 
 
 
52 
The IoT will eventually have an impact on virtually 
everything that we use on a daily basis. There is a 
rising potential for abuse as more people make use of 
this technology. The currently available technology is 
incapable of managing it. Therefore, Blockchain has 
shown itself to be an ideal answer to the difficulties 
posed by the IoT. The use of Blockchain technology 
is currently becoming increasingly widespread. It has 
the potential to optimize and modernize the 
worldwide technological infrastructure that is 
connected through the internet. It will have an effect 
on both of the following areas: 
• This system is entirely decentralized, as it 
eliminates the need for central servers and 
delivers a peer-to-peer experience. 
• It generates a transparent and completely open 
database, which improves governance and 
elections by creating openness. 
This technique comprises four components. 
Consensus: The consensus method ensures the 
networks are safeguarded with the verification of the 
transactions. 
Ledger: Track every activity in the network. 
Cryptography: Network and ledger data is 
encoded, and only authorized users can decrypt it. 
Smart-contract: This verifies and validates 
network participants, is employed. 
The Blockchain-based IoT has three 
communication models i.e., 
• Peer-to-peer messaging 
• Distributed data sharing 
• Autonomous device coordination 
 
Constraints: Slow Processing and Limited Storage 
In this paradigm, the nodes on a Blockchain 
function as members of the network. They might be 
home computers, servers used in businesses, or nodes 
located in the cloud. Clients are devices that are 
connected to the IoT. Through the use of Blockchain 
APIs, clients and nodes are able to connect with one 
another. Transactions are started by clients, and when 
they have been routed to nodes, they are processed, 
and the results are stored in the distributed ledger. 
When it came to the privacy of IoT devices, the 
Sahinoglu et al.10 came to the conclusion that 
decentralization and cryptography were the best 
solutions, provided that there were no problems with 
implementation or design. It has been determined that 
the most significant benefits of integrating Blockchain 
technology with the IoT are the maintenance of 
security and privacy, the management of information, 
data, and assets, and the use of lightweight 
cryptographic authentication. Some of the problems 
with putting Blockchain into the IoT are 
interoperability, different network topologies, 
compatibility, developments in quantum computing, 
user identity tracking, scalability, and communication 
overhead. 
There is a projection that the IoT will connect more 
than 30 billion devices by the year 2020.(11,12) This 
number will dwarf the population of the world. 
Because there are so many gadgets, modern 
academics are under increasing pressure to develop 
management strategies that take into account all 
aspects of the IoT. In general, the IoT comprises three 
fundamental architectural levels, which may be 
broken down as follows: perception (the realm of 
sensing devices), networking (the domain of 
networking), and application (the domain of 
application) (Application domain). Depending on the 
layer of the IoT ecosystem they are targeting, threats 
and assaults might take either an aggressive or passive 
form. These assaults might have been launched from 
either an external source or the internal network. The 
creation of secure and scalable frameworks for IoT 
applications stood out as one of the most significant 
areas in which to concentrate efforts. 
The concept of cryptocurrencies was central to the 
development of Blockchain technology, and that 
focus has not changed (e.g., Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc.). 
The goal of the Hyperledger9 project is to add 
Blockchain technology to business networks that are 
already in place. 
In the decentralized IoT access management 
system proposed in13 information pertaining to access 
control is kept on the Blockchain (BC) and dispersed 
across the network in a decentralized method.  
A management hub gateway is used to establish a 
connection between the IoT and BC. If the IoT node 
doesn't have endorsement or a clear way to identify 
the system, it will get in touch with the BC node to 
ask for help. Use scenarios like this might make a 
permission system an absolute necessity for a query 
technique like this. Since the management node is not 
part of the Bitcoin Core network, it also has to collect 
transaction fees for millions of transactions every day. 
Accessible through the internet, a Lightweight and 
Scalable Blockchain (LSB) platform that functions as 
a hub and controls all incoming and outgoing 
transaction requests is provided by a centralized 
management known as a Block Manager (BM).14 In 
addition to this, it saves a record of every transaction 
SEKHAR & ARUNA: BLOCKCHAIN FRAMEWORK FOR IOT COMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
53 
on the local computer. It does not clarify how local 
business management and overlay business 
management would collaborate in the process of 
transfers. Although the answers to the challenges with 
storage and scalability at a higher level have not yet 
been implemented, the text does not cover reducing 
the overhead size, storage, or management of the 
block's scalability. It shows how important it is to 
develop TPS as one of the things that need to be done. 
However, there are just a handful of research 
studies that investigate the potential applications of 
Blockchain technology to the IoT.15 This work 
provides a distributed Blockchain SDN architecture 
that has high performance availability flow-rule 
tables. The goal of the design is to provide support for 
the IoT.  
The report suggests that smart contracts might be 
one method in which the application of Blockchain 
technology could assist with IoT connectivity. To 
increase the number of transactions per second 
satellite chains can be employed.16 Mishra et al.16 
slock conducts an analysis of how to address 
problems of protection, identification, collaboration, 
and privacy without the need for a middleman by 
empowering millions of devices to act on their own. 
The B2ITS intelligent transportation system is not an 
IoT solution, despite the fact that it makes use of 
Blockchain technology.17 Instead, it addresses a 
seven-layer computational architecture for large-scale 
vehicle networks. According to Zeng et al.18 BC may 
also be used in transactions involving smart grids in 
order to maintain stability.19 It has been proposed that 
Blockchain technology be used to ensure the safety of 
smart devices. An open technology stack known as 
Filament makes it possible for dispersed and 
autonomous devices to discover one another, 
communicate with one another, and interact with one 
another. Using Blockchain technology, which is made 
possible by Provenance, gives proof of existence and 
responsibility for things like supply chain 
management.20,21 
It is recommended that the International 
Telecommunications Union take into consideration a 
proposal for a decentralized Blockchain of stuff system 
(ITU). Scalability, interoperability, and the use of a 
distributed ledger are just a few of the important needs 
that are being considered as part of this ongoing 
project. It is anticipated that many consensus 
mechanisms will be functional on the IoT network that 
Blockchain will power. The majority of the present 
research on the integration of IoT with Blockchain 
does not concentrate on improving the scalability or 
transaction rate of the ledger's speed. The development 
of an IoT network infrastructure that is scalable to 
support a high number of IoT devices is the primary 
objective of this project. This objective applies 
independently of the application situation. 
 
Methodology 
 
Scalable Blockchain for IoT: System Design 
An IoT network with Blockchain integration is 
presented in Fig. 1. Notably, Blockchain is a novel 
technology with few real-world applications. The IoT 
Blockchain process comprises three phases: 1) 
 
 
Fig. 1 — Proposed block diagram of the model 
J SCI IND RES VOL 82 JANUARY 2023 
 
 
54 
Application, 2) Local Peer network and 3) Blockchain 
network.  
 
Network Model 
 
Working Principle 
The goal of the framework that has been developed 
is not to openly link IoT devices to one another. It is 
possible to place limitations on transactions between 
devices and BC peers by utilizing a third party as an 
intermediate agent. Additionally, it is vital for all IoT 
devices to be connected to a certain business. The 
organization that builds local networks keeps the 
transactions that take place in their networks distinct 
from those that the global Blockchain is obligated to 
carry out. Initialization, configuration, and 
deployment are the three stages of the Blockchain 
implementation in the IoT. The first is the phase of 
trade origination. Next comes the phase of 
verification and validation, and finally, there is the 
phase of commitment. The first connectivity of IoT 
devices to Blockchain nodes is depicted in diagram 
2(b). These nodes serve the purposes of prospective 
endorsers. In addition, the system has a trustworthy 
Certification Authority (CA) that is also a major 
Membership Service Provider (MSP).  
 
Terminologies to Understand 
Device: The proposed system uses the term 
"device" to refer to any IoT equipment that can 
generate or receive Blockchain trades (transactions). 
The internet is utilized by various devices, such as 
sensors and other gadgets, in this portion. The 
machines are controlled by either firmware or 
gateway programs. We think that any application will 
be built with a uniform Blockchain Software 
Development Kit (SDK) for communications also 
smart contracts. 
Peer or Node: One of the core network's nodes is 
called a node. It's a machine that can process the 
consensus algorithm and keep a ledger.  
All IoT devices have a Node to which they are 
connected, and this Node executes the transactions 
initiated by the device. To employ Blockchain, a 
company must have a peer somewhere in the global 
Blockchain network. Thus, this paper recommends 
implementing a Local Peer Network that incorporates 
a Certification Authority (CA) and a Local Peer 
(Lpeer). When applied at the enterprise level, the 
Lpeer network raises the Blockchain scalability of 
anchor peers and the transaction rate of peers. 
User: A user in the proposed architecture is a 
person that is not human, and hence all users are, in 
fact, admins. In contrast to trading platforms that 
include human contact, IoT is entirely controlled by 
the machine and is not open to manipulation by a 
user. Because the administrator is a component of the 
architecture, as illustrated in Fig. 1, it's possible to 
initialize and manage the MSP. 
Blockchain Network: Each peer administers its 
ledger and smart contracts in the global network of 
interconnected peers. Anchor peers serve as 
intermediaries in the communication between Lpeer 
and Peer. 
 
Local peer network: Design details 
The Local Peer Network generates transactions and 
provides each device with a separate instance of itself. 
The anchor pier is a global member of the Blockchain 
network. The other portion of the image displays the 
entire local peernetwork. Network implementation of 
Lpeer occurs at the organisational level. Although 
specific gadgets can engage in D2D communication, 
they cannot do so unless they are attached to some 
company. 
 
CA server 
The CA Server is a comprehensive certification 
authority that gives users a wide variety of choices 
regarding certification architecture. The design 
element is crucial since other users on the network are 
unable to offer certificates, signatures, or keys. 
Additionally, it is able to give registration certificates 
for both administrators and users. Every application 
has to establish a connection to the CA in order to get 
the necessary keys and signatures for encryption. In 
addition to this, it provides TLS-secured connections 
between all of the components of the Blockchain, as 
well as credential validation, signature creation, and 
verification. 
 
Local peer (Lpeer) 
A peer network is the foundation upon which a 
Blockchain network is constructed (or, simply, peers). 
Peer nodes' ability to store ledgers and smart contracts 
is essential to the functioning of the network. Keep in 
mind that a ledger stores all of the transactions related 
to smart contracts indefinitely. In a network, it is 
easier to keep track of shared information and 
operations with the use of ledgers and smart contracts. 
Fabric networks require a variety of different 
components, including, but not limited to, ledgers, 
SEKHAR & ARUNA: BLOCKCHAIN FRAMEWORK FOR IOT COMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
55 
smart contracts, ordering services, policies, channels, 
applications, organisations, and memberships. Each of 
these parts focuses on the connections between peers 
that are part of the Fabric network.  
As may be seen From Fig. 2(a), A Blockchain 
network has three types of participants: 
 Peers (peers 1, 2, and 3 in the diagram). 
 Ledger (who maintain their copy of the 
Blockchain). 
 Smart Contract (which support the complete 
Blockchain and disseminate it to the other nodes). 
P1, P2, and P3 all have the same copy of S1, and they 
all use it to access their own individual copies of the 
distributed ledger. It is possible to create peers, start 
them, end them, reconfigure them, or delete them. 
They provide a collection of application programming 
interfaces (APIs) that enable administrators and apps 
to interact with the services that they provide. A 
ledger and its accompanying chain code are both 
hosted on a peer. The LP1 instance has a ledger 
named L1 and a chain code named S1 shows in above 
Fig. 2(a). A number of different ledgers and 
Blockchains can be hosted by local peers. 
 
Multiple Ledgers 
As shown in Fig. 2(b), a peer is able to retain more 
than one ledger, which helps to ease the development 
of a system architecture that is very adaptable. A peer 
is able to keep track of a single ledger, but if required, 
they should also be prepared to deal with two or more 
ledgers. 
A peer that hosts a number of different ledgers. 
Each ledger in the system is hosted by one or more 
peers, and each ledger is associated with a number of 
chain codes that can range from zero to several. As is 
clear from the above example, P1 acts as the host for 
the ledgers L1 and L2, as shown here. To gain access 
to the ledger L1, you will need the chain code S1. To 
gain access to Ledger L2, you will need the Chain 
Codes S1 and S2. 
Local Peer: An IoT solution for Local Peer 
organisations is the Local Peer. It's our idea to break 
down a single local peer into many smaller ones. 
Using many instances of Lpeer0 dispersed across 
various geographical regions may help eliminate a 
single point of failure. This feature is useful for 
applications that need consensus on local transactions 
among a large number of different peering peers. 
Some ledgers are kept, while others are discarded by 
secondary Lpeers. Only one device, lpeer0, needs to 
be found. Users, credentials, and smart contracts are 
all continually updated in the database. Lpeer0 is the 
sole member of the ledger who has authorization to 
read and write blocks. Through interactions with other 
organisations' anchors, it also addresses inter-
organizational issues. 
 
Ordered & Ordering Services 
The organising service is performed at the request 
of the customer and may include interactions with a 
number of lepers (if any). It is the responsibility of the 
ordered, upon receipt of transactions from a variety of 
applications and/or devices, to incorporate those 
transactions into a block in the manner specified by 
the batch instructions. It is where CA certificates and 
signatures are kept in their entirety. Any user can 
validate their own transactions by using the ordered, 
and it will use its certificates and signature to do so. 
When referring to a "provider who buys resources  
and then provides them to other miners," the  
phrase "orderer" should be taken as meaning "a 
buyer." Participants in the order are responsible  
for carrying out transactions and generating blocks as 
part of their duties. In general, miners are the ones 
who are tasked with certifying bitcoin Blockchains 
through the use of proof-of-work consensus 
mechanisms. 
Ledger: The use of unique serialisation helps to 
prevent tampering while also keeping track of every 
transaction. The signing of transactions is the 
consequence of transactions generated by chaincode 
invocations given by all parties involved in the 
company. Ledger is in the same namespace with 
Lpeer0, who has read/write access to it.  
A secondary peer can use the Blockchain to retain 
a backup copy, which is only used if Lpeer0 goes 
 
 
Fig. 2(a-b) — a); Blockchain network elements & b) Multiple
ledgers with peer hosting 
J SCI IND RES VOL 82 JANUARY 2023 56 
down. Both Lpeer and BC employ a state database to 
record the results of every transaction. 
SDK: Blockchain SDK streamlines the transaction 
process by using the user's cryptographic credentials. 
Various applications use the SDK to gather data and 
transaction information, which is then centralized stored. 
Smart Contract: A digital agreement between two 
devices establishes the terms and circumstances of a 
transaction. The chaincode that implements it is based 
on asset and business model descriptions. This project 
utilizes smart contracts as they're defined for 
international Blockchain networks.22 
The entire Blockchain process in IoT consists of three 
phases: a) trade origination, b) verification and 
validation, and c). Committing phase. 
Phase 1: Trade Origination Phase 
This is the phase where trade proposal preparation 
and trade proposal execution were discussed. 
i. Proposal Preparation: This section gathers all
IoT data and utilises it to generate a business
proposal. The SDK formats the data before
sending it to chaincode for processing. Trade
data, device signatures, destination public
addresses, and matching certificates are all
included in the payload of the trade agreement
packet in Fig. 3.
ii. This app talks with CA to produce enrolment
certificates (eCert) for users to use after they have
joined the Blockchain network of peers.23
iii. The Certificate Authority (CA) issued certificate
shows in Fig. 1. Admin approval is required for
both Chain code and IoT device installation. This
system takes care of administrators, hardware,
nodes, and applications all at once.
iv. Proposal Execution: Each device is accompanied
with a business proposition, which is then
processed via the channel. A channel is a logical
communication tunnel that connects each node
and application. Devices without a channel cannot
perform transactions since they are channel-
specific. Channel setup and maintenance are the
responsibilities of the MSP. Nodes are often used
to connect IoT devices to prevent them from
spending twice in the same blocking session,
however they can only do one transaction at a
time.24
Phase 2: Verification & Authentication Phase: 
The organising service is performed at the request of 
the customer and may include interactions with a 
number of lepers (if any). It is the responsibility of 
the orderer, upon receipt of transactions from a 
variety of applications and/or devices, to 
incorporate those transactions into a block in the 
manner specified by the batch instructions. It is 
where CA certificates and signatures are kept in 
their entirety. Any user can validate their own 
transactions by using the orderer, and it will use its 
certificates and signature to do so. When referring to 
a "provider who buys resources and then provides 
them to other miners," the phrase "orderer" 
should be taken as meaning "a buyer." 
Participants in the order are responsible for carrying 
out transactions and generating blocks as part of 
their duties. In general, miners are the ones who are 
tasked with certifying bitcoin Blockchains through 
the use of proof-of-work consensus mechanisms. 
i.User and Device Authenticity
Nodes and devices are the two different types of 
participants that might take part. Since the network 
was first set up, the administrator has verified their 
identities using eCert, sign, keys, TLSert, and 
CAcert. When applications use an admin object to 
register new nodes or devices, the applications have 
access to the appropriate eCert. In a similar 
fashion, the application communicates with the 
CA and LPEER0 in order to enrol additional nodes.  
The Certification Authority generates a variety of 
certificates (such as TLS CA, eCert, and so on) and 
hands them over to the device. During the verification 
Fig. 3 — Stages of the IoT Blockchain operational process. 
SEKHAR & ARUNA: BLOCKCHAIN FRAMEWORK FOR IOT COMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
57 
process, Lpeer0 stores the information obtained from 
devices (such as TLS, CA certificates, and signatures) 
so that it may be used at a later time. By limiting who 
can connect to the network, this method helps to make 
sure that only authorised IoT devices can join the 
local Blockchain network. As a component of the 
worldwide Blockchain network, the IoT gadget may 
be used to map and find individuals. LPeer0 is 
responsible for registering devices with the anchor 
peer. The registration of devices is handled by the 
first algorithm. Who is allowed to add blocks and who 
may raise questions? Because of this, new users and 
devices won't be able to connect to the network until 
they have been properly identified.  
IoT Device Registration: The registration of both 
IoT device necessity be done through CA and Lpeer0 
(as illustrated in Fig. 4) to be part of the system. 
Step 1: First, devices should register with CA: 
Step 2: CA will create encryption keys and device-
specific signatures. TLS CA, eCert, and other 
certificates, as well as public-private key pairs issued 
and delivered to the device, must all be developed and 
certified by the CA. 
Step 3: Once the IoT device has registered with the 
CA, it utilises Lpeer0 to verify the identity of the person 
making the request. During the verification process, 
Lpeer0 keeps track of all connected device user 
credentials (such as TLS, CA certificates, and signatures). 
Note: It is essential to have a solid understanding 
that this strategy only enables IoT devices to join the 
local Blockchain network if they have been given 
permission to do so. As a component of the 
worldwide Blockchain network, the IoT gadget may 
be used to map and find individuals. LPeer0 is 
responsible for registering devices with the anchor 
peer. The Blockchain serves as the foundation for the 
IoT architecture that is managed by Algorithm-1. 
 
Algorithm-1 Device registration 
Input: DeviceID’seg:d1, d2 
Output: Peerid, Deviceid 
Step 1: Assign: Deviceid- -> di, Peerid- - >Lpeer0 
Request sign & certificates of di- -> CA 
If di (sign & certificates) 
then  
di - ->Lpeer0 (sign(di ), di ) 
If  
Lpeer0 (sign(di ),then 
Comment: 
Device di; registered with Lpeer 
return Peer id: Deviceid= Lpeer 0: di 
else 
di sign or certificates is not valid 
end 
else 
Request Cancel 
end  
Smart Contract Deployment: An administrator will 
install and activate the Chain Code software on a node. 
The instantiation policy will be applied by declaring 
the name and version of the smart contract. The 
process for the installation and instantiation of chain 
code in Hyperledger is the same as the workflow for a 
conventional invocation. This implies that the 
endorsement, validation, and commit activities take 
 
 
Fig. 4 — IoT devices registration process 
J SCI IND RES VOL 82 JANUARY 2023 
 
 
58 
place in the order that they were listed. However, 
installation results in alterations, which in turn pose a 
significant security risk because the capability to 
confirm transactions is dependent on the smart 
contract. Chain code plays an essential role in the 
overall process because it is responsible for the 
administration of several commercial regulations. The 
trade execution rules between the devices are, to a large 
extent, put into practise by these regulations, which are 
part of the agreements that were formed between the 
participating devices. Our method stipulates that the 
decision-making process for every modification to the 
smart contract follows the exact same format as that for 
a single trade. At least 51% of the nodes have 
expressed their approval for the contract amendment. 
 
User Account Validation: 
The smart contract script will then define the 
access privileges based on the channel used. You may 
only talk to other devices using a channel that uses the 
MSP credentials you generated. Because the admin 
assigns the channel, it's impossible to reach any nodes 
or devices that aren't already linked. To determine if 
the transaction came from a genuine user, Lpeer0 
validates each transaction it receives. The process of 
verifying the devices is handled by Algorithm 2 if 
they are registered. 
 
Algorithm 2: Device Verification 
Input: Requested (Peerid,did) 
Output: Approved or Denied 
Step 1: if ((Peerid.did) = Lpeer 
then 
if sign (Lpeeradmin)and sign(di ) is verified 
then 
return Approved 
else 
return denied 
end 
else 
return denied  
end  
 
Acceptance or Rejection 
The customer gets simultaneous trades by several 
nodes also creates a new block attached towards the 
register. 
 
Phase 3: Commit Phase 
Everything comes to an end here. All nodes in the 
network may get a block when the consensus PoBT is 
completed, which they may add in their own PoBT 
books.  
Block Distribution: The orderer won't consent to 
the new block being added to the Blockchain until the 
PoBT algorithm has validated it as valid, at which 
point it will be broadcast to all of the network nodes 
along with the orderer's signature. Each node adds the 
block to its repository after verifying the signature of 
the block. 
 
Structure of transaction and processing: 
It examines each transaction that Lpeer0 receives 
in order to ascertain whether or not the trade was 
carried out by a genuine user. In the event that the 
devices have been registered, the Algorithm 2 will 
handle the verification process on your behalf. 
Together with the sender's device and the device of 
the receiver, as well as the private and public keys 
that were specified in the message, a message was 
successfully transferred. The same is true for the 
transaction proposal, which identifies the private keys 
of the peers, the public key of the user, and the 
administrator of the connected device in the peer. 
Additionally, it also identifies the public key of the 
user. In the event that a transaction proposal is sent, 
the peer will validate it and decode it using a private 
key in the event that it was communicated.25 In 
addition to verifying all of the certificates that were 
previously stored, after decryption it checks the 
signatures of both the administrator and the device. 
After it has been established that all of the verification 
results are satisfactory, it will send a favorable answer 
to the applicant that initiated the verification process. 
 
Trade Processes and the Ledger's Scalability: 
The Local Blockchain is designed to disseminate 
blocks to each and every node that is part of the 
network. The whole of the network's transactions is 
included within the blocks that are then distributed. 
Because of this, the amount of memory that is 
necessary for the ledger will increase in a manner 
that is proportional to the number of nodes that are 
now operational. Memory needs are governed by a 
variety of distinct factors, including the kind of 
transactions, the storage policy, the data that is 
contained inside transactions, and the number of 
times blocks are produced. According to the 
information that is displayed in this image, the 
quantity of memory that is required to store 
committed blocks sees a significant increase as the 
size of the network increases. Because the amount of 
data that is transferred may vary from one IoT 
application to the next, the amount of RAM that is 
required may range anywhere from hundreds of 
terabytes to hundreds of petabytes. In other words, 
SEKHAR & ARUNA: BLOCKCHAIN FRAMEWORK FOR IOT COMMUNICATIONS 59 
the amount of RAM that is required may be 
anywhere in the range of hundreds of thousands of 
gigabytes (e.g., 10 KB trades compared to 5 KB 
trades). There's a chance that adding more nodes will 
make the network safer, but the extra memory that 
will be needed to store transactions might make it 
harder to use.  
 Let us represent the size of trade-in terms Trw and 
the weight of the block header Bw and trades per 
block Tr. The ledger weight measures how much 
weight a ledger is Ldw (in bytes) motivation growth 
for a particular amount of time following Eq. (1), 
where i =1,2, 3,…The symbol n represents the 
number of blocks in a certain time series. 
1 1
n T r
j i
w w w
i j
Ld Tr B

 
  … (1) 
If the average transaction acceptance rate per 
second is, as previously stated, Trr As a result, the 
ledger increase rate per second becomes 
/ ( )
w
ww s
n
B
TrLd Tr
Tr
   … (2)
Results and Discussion 
Each transaction represents a block, as we learned 
from the experimental evaluation of Hyperledger Fabric 
which approximately is 5 - 10  KB, and blocks are 
produced at a pace of  500 trades per each block of  4.5 
KB. Based on Eq. (1) we can estimate a ledger growth 
rate of 50–100 KB/sec. If you have hundreds of IoT 
nodes, this one won't do you much good. The solution to 
this problem is to split up the transactions amongst 
different nodes and different gadgets. Trade execution is 
determined by Nsd during the trade creation step. The 
process of confirming local trade and creating blocks are 
depicts in Fig. 5. The Nsd represents the node closest to 
the user, while Ni € represents a non-selected node. 
All through the set-up procedure, we tested our 
idea using Hyperledger Fabric (v1.0.2). In this study, 
we'll use two distinct devices, each of which will 
Fig. 5 — Flow model 
J SCI IND RES VOL 82 JANUARY 2023 
 
 
60 
simulate a certain set of characteristics: The Lpeer 
Network takes cues from the first example, while the 
global Blockchain looks to the second as an 
inspiration. Ubuntu-based container virtualization was 
employed to power the peers.1 This research aims to 
discover how the scalability of Blockchain technology 
might boost the IoT's efficiency in its operational 
processes. The size of the ledger can be reduced and 
the processing of financial transactions can be sped up 
by having fewer peers engage in transactions and by 
enhancing the rate at which transactions are 
processed. The reader to keep in mind that both 
Blockchain and the IoT are in a constant state of 
development and the process is shown in Fig. 6. The 
rapid evolution in the architectures of the many 
available platforms will have an impact on the 
assessments. In the present day, a Blockchain for the 
IoT can process ten transactions per second.26 
Nsd will ask the orderer to select a random node Ni 
to cross-validate the trades after it has determined that 
the source DS and destination Dd IoT devices are 
related. The only way to get everyone on the same 
page is via this method. This method of random 
selection guarantees that each node is distinct and 
prevents a negotiated Nsd from selecting a preferred 
validator. After the transaction has been validated, the 
orderer Ni receives it, preventing a compromised Nsd 
from bypassing the check. The legitimacy of the 
signatories on an order must be verified before 
processing may begin. The memory of other nodes is 
not tapped for these deals. By doing so, the memories 
of other nodes are spared from the exchange. 
The ordering system may give any node's requested 
block ID with correct authorization by keeping a list 
of local and global transaction IDs internally. To 
attain these three fundamental features, the method 
requires verification/consensus, communication, and 
computing which improves the Scalability of the 
ledger. Calculation of Computing Time: The length of 
time necessary to validate numerous nodes has an 
effect on the transaction throughput of the system as 
well as its overall dependability. The time required to 
validate a trade between two nodes is the first thing 
that will be measured by the proposed system. After 
that, it verifies the transaction with the Ns while the 
consensus is being built. The total amount of time 
spent on computing, which is denoted by Tb, can be 
found by:  
1
2
1 1
( ) ( )
s
r
N
T
i i
b r s
i i
T T t N t
 
 
    … (3) 
( )i
rT t It is time for a single trade, and ( )i
sN t
 It's 
time for consensus verification by Ns. Likewise, the 
computation time for Hyperledger fabric
Fab
bT Can be 
used to compute 
 
1 1
( )
r NsT
Fab i
b s
j i
T N t

 
   … (4) 
 
Because it uses a different implementation for 
getting trade and endorsing node information than 
existing state-of-the-art Fabric solutions Eq. (3), the 
suggested technique takes less time to verify Eq. (3) 
and Eq. (4).  
Whenever a session comes to an end, a batch of 
transactions is sent out to all of the nodes in the 
network. To put it another way, the memory 
requirements of the ledger rise according to the size of 
the network. Memory use during a transaction can be 
affected by a number of factors, including the storage 
policy, the kind of transaction being performed, and 
the rate at which new blocks are produced and it is 
demonstrated Fig. 7 that the number of committed 
blocks that must be stored with a 10-node network. It 
 
 
Fig. 6 — Sequence structure 
SEKHAR & ARUNA: BLOCKCHAIN FRAMEWORK FOR IOT COMMUNICATIONS 
 
 
61 
requires significantly more storage space for the 
committed blocks because of the huge rise in the 
number of blocks that must be saved. Because various 
IoT applications deal with transactions of varying 
sizes, the amount of RAM required to store such 
transactions might reach several hundred terabytes 
(e.g. 10 KB trades compared to 5 KB trades). 
However, keep in mind that the memory required to 
retain these trades might be an issue owing to the size 
and capabilities of the nodes. This could be a concern 
because more nodes mean more validating nodes, 
which suggests better security. 
From the comparison of the above result, 
analysisisessential with the Hyperledger material for 
the calculation time (from the validation of trade to 
the closing of blocks). The system's overall number of 
nodes is 10, while transactions per block are 1 to 500. 
The results in the necessary time compared to the 
growing number of trades per block are presented in 
Fig. 8. The scale is logarithmic; it should be noted. If 
there are 100 competitor trades, it may be seen that 
approval is required for ~200 ms, although our 
suggested model entails ~80 ms. 
Similarly, the time needed for endorsement is 500 
trades per ~1000 ms. Whereas the proposed model 
necessitates ~590 ms, which is half the value of 
Fabric. The endorsement time increases in direct 
proportion to the volume of transactions. The 
proposed model, on the other hand, takes a lot less 
time to compute than Fabric. The time required to 
complete a trade under two dissimilar adjustable 
conditions is illustrated in Fig. 9. The X-axis indicates 
the number of employments per block (which can 
range between 5 and 250) and the number of 
agreement participants associated with each trade 
(ranging from 2 to 50). This is critical since the 
number of endorsers has a direct effect on the 
system's performance.2 In the first instance, the time 
required to execute five deals with two endorsers for 
every session is ~4 ms and ~3.6 ms which are nearly 
equivalent. However, when the number of endorsers 
per every session is 20 and the number of trades is 
100, the time required for endorsements grows 
significantly is ~189 ms, for Fabric, the proposed 
model requires only ~85 ms. When nodes are 50 for 
250 transactions, the endorsement time is 
approximate. But from the preceding study, it is clear 
that the suggested work outperforms the competition 
in terms of the time necessary to execute the trade. As 
a result, the proposed method scales better as the 
number of trades and participating nodes increases. 
 
Conclusions 
Scalable, secure Blockchain technologies will be 
needed for the IoT. A block must be approved by the 
majority of its peers before being built. Massive 
networks take longer to understand. Hyperledger, a 
commercial Blockchain solution, reduces network 
peers and limits verification to transactions, solving 
this problem. A secure transaction-based 
communication system built on Blockchain 
technology may soon be possible. This study found 
that Blockchain technology and the IoT are 
incompatible and the model emphasizes on 
establishment of peer networks at the neighborhood 
level. The simulation affects TPS and ledger weight 
both positively and negatively. This allows the IoT to 
handle more commercial transactions without needing 
more memory.  
 
 
Fig. 7 — Ledger memory scalability 
 
 
Fig. 8 — Fixed numbers of nodes 
 
 
Fig. 9 — Variable numbers of nodes and trades 
J SCI IND RES VOL 82 JANUARY 2023 
 
 
62 
It will be an exciting direction based on the outcomes 
of the experimental inquiry, whether to have a 
uniform transaction structure that is optimized for 
various types of business chains or specialized 
structures but with interoperability among multiple 
chains. Regardless of which option is chosen, it will 
be a direction that will be exciting. In either case, the 
path that is taken will be one that is defined by the 
findings of the investigation. 
 
References 
1 Xu R, Chen Y, Li X & Blasch E, A secure dynamic edge 
resource federation architecture for cross-domain IoT 
systems, Int Conf Comput Commun Netw (ICCCN) 
(Manchester Metropolitan University, United Kingdom) 
2022, 1–7, doi: 10.1109/ICCCN54977.2022.9868843. 
2 Mallick S R & Sharma S, EMRI: A scalable and secure 
Blockchain-based IoMT framework for healthcare data 
transaction, 19th OITS Int Conf Inf Technol (OCIT) (IEEE) 
2021, 261–266, doi: 10.1109/OCIT53463.2021.00060. 
3 Al Nuaimi K & Kamel H, A survey of indoor positioning 
systems and algorithms, Proc Int Conf Innov Inf Technol 
(IEEE) 2011, 185–190. 
4 Misra P & Enge P, Global positioning system: signals, 
measurements & Performance, IEEE Aerosp Electron Syst 
Mag, 17(10) (2002) 36−37. 
5 Zhen F, Zhan Z, Peng Q & Yuguo Z, Analysis based on 
RSSI ranging, Chin J Sens Actuators, 20(11) (2007) 
2526−2530. 
6 Jeon K E, She J, Soonsawad P & Ng P C, BLE, beacons for 
internet of things applications: Survey, challenges, and 
opportunities, IEEE Internet Things J, 5(2) (2018) 811–828. 
7 Qiu Y, Zhao C C, Dai G L & Hu C J, Research on 
localization technology for wireless sensor networks, 
Comput Sci, 35(5) (2008) 47−50. 
8 Akyildiz I F, Su W, Sankarasubramaniam Y & Cayirci E, A 
survey on sensor networks, IEEE Commun Mag, 40(8) 
(2002) 102–114. 
9 Li Y, Meng M Q H, Li S, Chen W & Liang H, Particle 
filtering for range-based localization in wireless sensor 
networks, Proc 7th World Congress on Intelligent Control 
and Automation (IEEE) 2008, 1629–1634. 
10 Sahinoglu Z & Gezici S, Ranging in the IEEE 802.15.4a 
standard, Proc Microw Technol Conf (WAMICON) (IEEE) 
(2006), 1−5. 
11 Chen W, LiW, Shou H & Yuan B, Weighted centroid 
localization algorithm based on RSSI for wireless sensor 
networks, J Wuhan Univ Technol, 30(2) (2006) 256–268. 
12 Iyengar R & Sikdar B, Scalable and distributed GPS free 
positioning for sensor networks, Proc Int Conf Commun 
(ICC'03) (IEEE) 2003, 338–342. 
13 Chen Y, Li X, Ding Y, Xu J & Liu Z, An improved DV-Hop 
localization algorithm for wireless sensor networks, Proc13th 
IEEE Conf Ind Electron Appl (ICIEA) (IEEE) 2018, 1831–
1836. 
14 Wang Z M & Zheng Y, The study of the weighted centroid 
localization algorithm based on RSSI, Proc IEEE Int Conf 
Wirel Commun Sens Netw (IEEE) 2014, 276–279. 
15 Chapre Y, Mohapatra P, Jha S & Seneviratne A, Received 
signal strength indicator and its analysis in a typical WLAN 
system (short paper), Proc IEEE LCN annu Conf Local 
Comput Netw (IEEE) 2013, 304–307. 
16 Al Nuaimi K & Kamel H, A survey of indoor positioning 
systems and algorithm, Proc IEEE Int Conf Innov Inf 
Technol (IEEE) 2011, 185−190. 
17 Misra P & Enge P, Global positioning system: signals 
measurements & performance, IEEE Aerosp Electron, 17(10) 
(2002) 36–37. 
18 Zhen F, Zhan Z, Peng Q & Yuguo Z, Analysis based on 
RSSI ranging, Chin J Sens Actuators, 20(11) (2007) 2526–
2530. 
19 Jeon K E, She J, Soonsawad P & Ng P C, BLE beacons for 
internet of things applications: Survey, challenges, and 
opportunities, IEEE Internet Things J, 5(2) (2018) 811–828. 
20 Qiu Y, Zhao C C, Dai G L & Hu, C J, Research on 
localization technology for wireless sensor networks, 
Comput Sci, 35(5) (2008) 47–50. 
21 Akyildiz I F, Su W, Sankarasubramaniam Y & Cayirci E, A 
survey on sensor networks, IEEE Commun Mag, 40(8) 
(2002) 102–114. 
22 Li Y, Meng M Q H, Li S, Chen W & Liang H, Particle 
filtering for range-based localization in wireless sensor 
networks, Proc IEEE 7th World Congress on Intell Control 
Autom (IEEE) 2008, 1629–1634. 
23 Sahinoglu Z & Gezici S, Ranging in the IEEE 802.15. 
4astandard, Proc IEEE Microw Technol Conf (WAMICON) 
(2006), 1–5. 
24 Chen W, Li W, Shou H & Yuan B, Weighted centroid 
localization algorithm based on RSSI for wireless  
sensor networks, J Wuhan Univ Technol, 30(2) (2006)  
256–268. 
25 Chen Y, Li, X, Ding Y, Xu J & Liu Z, An improved DV-Hop 
localization algorithm for wireless sensor networks, Proc13th 
IEEE Conf Ind Electron Appl (ICIEA) (IEEE) 2018,  
1831–1836. 
26 Iyengar R & Sikdar B, Scalable and distributed GPS free 
positioning for sensor networks, Proc IEEE Int Conf 
Commun (ICC'03) (IEEE) 2003, 338–342.