Article 
 
Opportunities and Barriers to the Adoption of 
Blockchain-Based Games in an Online Gaming 
Company in Thailand 
 
Nithidol Kanchanaratanakorn1,a and Parames Chutima1,2,3,b,* 
 
1 Regional Centre for Manufacturing Systems Engineering, Chulalongkorn University, Thailand 
2 Department of Industrial Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Chulalongkorn University, Thailand 
3 The Academy of Science, The Royal Society of Thailand, Thailand 
E-mail: anithidol.k@gmail.com, b,*cparames@chula.ac.th (Corresponding author) 
 
Abstract. This research aims to explore potential opportunities and barriers related to the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in an online gaming company in Thailand. The 
identified opportunities are classified under the benefits framework proposed by Shang and 
Seddon [1], and the identified barriers are classified under the Technology-Organisation-
Environment (TOE) framework. Based on the knowledge and experience of experts in the 
case company, all the opportunities and barriers are then assessed using the concept of 
Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA), which is further improved using the Analytic 
Hierarchy Process (AHP) by assigning a relative weight to each element of the FMEA before 
being used to find the priority number (PN). Next, the Pareto principle is applied to reveal 
the critical opportunities and barriers. As a result, a total of 21 critical opportunities are 
revealed and categorised into 5 dimensions: 4 operational opportunities; 3 managerial 
opportunities; 7 strategic opportunities; 4 infrastructure opportunities; and 3 organisational 
opportunities, and a total of 19 critical barriers are revealed and categorised into 3 
dimensions: 7 technological barriers; 6 organisational barriers; and 6 environmental barriers. 
The TOWS matrix is then used to formulate possible strategies for the case company to 
exploit the opportunities and address the barriers to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games. As a result, a total of 7 SO, 12 ST, 5 WO, and 1 WT strategies are proposed. Based 
on the PNs and the interview with experts, a roadmap including short-, medium-, and long-
term action plans is also developed to facilitate the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
 
Keywords: Blockchain-based games, opportunities and barriers, benefits framework, TOE 
framework, FMEA, AHP, Pareto, TOWS matrix, technology adoption. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11 
Received 23 July 2022 
Accepted 21 November 2022 
Published 30 November 2022 
Online at https://engj.org/ 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
56 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
1. Introduction 
 
1.1. Gaming Industry in Thailand 
 
The Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic has 
posed significant challenges for many industries around 
the world such as trade, supply chain, finance, health, and 
education [2]. However, the opposite has been the case for 
the gaming industry. The Digital Economy Promotion 
Agency (DEPA) [3], established in 2017 by the Thai 
government to support the progress of the adoption of 
innovation and technology in Thailand, reports that the 
pandemic has become one of the key drivers of the gaming 
industry in Thailand because consumers’ behaviour has 
shifted from offline activities to online activities. Gaming 
has become a means of how people spend time during 
lockdowns and social distancing and, as a result, a rise in 
revenue and engagement could be observed in all game 
segments. In 2020, the number of gamers in Thailand rose 
to more than 32 million [4], which was around 45% of the 
total population. In terms of video game revenue, 
Thailand is the second-largest in Southeast Asia and is 
ranked 20th globally [5]. Figure 1 represents the revenue 
of the video game market in Thailand, which is expected 
to have a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 9.76% 
from $US599.77 million in 2021 to $US870.26 million in 
2026. The mobile game segment is the largest segment 
which is expected to account for over 63.5% of the total 
market volume in 2022 [6]. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Video game revenue by segment in Thailand (2017 
- 2026) (Adapted from Statista [6]). 
1.2. Blockchain Industry in Thailand 
 
Figure 2 shows the result of a survey (n = 55) 
conducted by Deloitte [7] to study the effect of the 
COVID-19 pandemic on digital transformation in various 
industries in Thailand including energy, consumer, 
financial, technology, media, telecommunications, and 
healthcare sectors. As opposed to basic technologies (e.g. 
traditional web technology and mobile application), it can 
be seen that advanced technologies (e.g. blockchain, 
augmented reality (AR) or virtual reality (VR), and robotics) 
have been adopted by only a few companies. 47% of the 
companies in the study even have no plan to invest in 
blockchain technology. Therefore, it can be concluded 
that blockchain technology in Thailand is still in its infancy 
stage. A study of blockchain technology by Pongnumkul 
et al. [8] also suggests that the stage of blockchain 
technology adoption in Thailand is still considered early, 
but there is a rapid increase in numbers and industry 
varieties. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Plan for digital technology implementation in 
organisations in Thailand [7]. 
Although the concept of blockchain technology is still 
new and not well-known to the general public, Thailand is 
praised as one of the most critical markets for blockchain 
in Southeast Asia [9]. The reason is that there is a wide 
range of discussions and initiatives about blockchain 
technology in many sectors in Thailand, some of which 
are as follows: 
• The Bank of Thailand [10] has announced a press 
release stating that it is studying the possibility of 
developing Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) in 
Thailand; 
• Siam Commercial Bank [11], one of Thailand’s 
largest financial institutions, has partnered with Ripple, an 
enterprise blockchain solution, to expand its cross-border 
transfers for retail customers; 
• A manual to guide how blockchain can be used 
for government services has been published by Digital 
Government Development Agency [12]; and 
• National Electronics and Computer Technology 
Center (NECTEC) has developed a blockchain-based 
voting system that can be applied to local elections to 
reduce fraud and maintain data integrity [13]. 
Regardless of the stage of blockchain technology 
adoption, Fig. 3 shows an interesting fact that Thailand is 
ranked first globally at over 20% in terms of 
cryptocurrency ownership proportion among internet 
users aged 16 to 64 [14]. This means Thai people have 
shown a clear interest in digital currencies which, at the 
moment, are generally accepted as the main use case of 
blockchain technology. 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 57 
 
 
Fig. 3. Ownership of cryptocurrency [14]. 
1.3. The Connection Between Gaming Industry and 
Blockchain Technology 
 
Blockchain technology, enabled by its underlying 
distributed ledger technology, has the potential to 
transform the online gaming industry with the 
development of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) and the 
“play-to-earn” (P2E) model. Because of blockchain-based 
games, players are introduced to new ways of earning 
income from playing games, thus redefining the value 
proposition of online games. According to Herrera [15], 
blockchain technology utilisation is currently being 
dominated by blockchain-based games with over 1.4 
million unique active wallets accounting for almost half of 
the entire industry’s usage. As a result, compared to other 
aspects of blockchain technology such as Decentralised 
Finance (DeFi), games have become one of the most 
popular use cases of blockchain technology, as shown in 
Fig. 4. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Unique active wallets by category (2021) [15]. 
Figure 5 shows the aim of the Ministry of Industry in 
Thailand to promote the Thailand 4.0 policy, officially 
established in 2016, in which the digital economy is a part 
of the new S-curve industries [16]. Moreover, the Digital 
Economy Promotion Agency [17] has the desire to drive 
the growth of the digital content and gaming industry in 
Thailand. Blockchain-based games thus have a promising 
future in this context. However, considering the novelty 
of blockchain technology, there are barriers and risks 
related to the adoption and implementation of the 
technology in organisations [18]. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Thailand’s First S-curve and New S-curve 
(Adapted from OIE [19]). 
1.4. The Company and Business Overview 
 
This research will use an online gaming company that 
has one of its main offices located in Thailand as the case 
company, hereafter will be referred to as “the company” 
or “the case company”. In addition to the Thai market, the 
company focuses on developing and publishing mobile 
and personal computer (PC) online games for the global 
markets. However, its most dominant region is Southeast 
Asia, which accounted for more than 60% of the 
company’s total revenue in 2020. The monetisation model 
currently used by the company for its games is referred to 
as “free-to-play” (F2P), which means users can access, 
install, and play games for free with an option to spend 
real money through In-App Purchases (IAPs) in exchange 
for virtual currencies or goods [20]. F2P is one of the most 
popular business models for online gaming companies 
making up 80% of the total game revenue worldwide in 
2018 [21]. With the success of its F2P model, the company 
to date has neither decided to start its journey in the 
blockchain industry nor engaged in any activities related to 
blockchain technology. Despite the fact that the F2P 
model is currently widely adopted by most developers and 
publishers in the online gaming industry, some of the well-
known players, who also are offering their services to users 
in Thailand and could be considered direct competitors to 
the company, have started to realise the disruptive 
potential of blockchain technology and embark on the 
blockchain gaming landscape.  
 
1.5. Research Contributions 
 
The contributions of this research are as follows: 
• This research contributes to the academic 
literature in the field of the blockchain industry and the 
U
n
iq
u
e
 A
c
ti
v
e
 W
a
lle
ts
 (
m
ill
io
n
s
) 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
58 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
use of blockchain in the online gaming industry in which 
there are very limited studies. 
• Given the nascent and fragmented state of 
blockchain standards, this research is believed to be the 
first academic study to explore the opportunities and 
barriers related to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in an online gaming company in Thailand and 
propose strategies to exploit the opportunities and address 
the barriers.  
• The findings of this research can be used and 
extended by online gaming companies and authorities to 
understand the potential values of blockchain-based 
games and the barriers that are preventing them from 
adopting blockchain-based games. This research also can 
help stakeholders develop strategies to maximise benefits 
and solve the challenges related to the adoption of 
blockchain-based games, which could introduce a new 
concept of the digital economy and a new form of value 
creation. 
• The methodology of this research, which includes 
various theoretical frameworks and strategic planning 
tools and techniques (e.g. benefits framework, TOE 
framework, FMEA, AHP, Pareto analysis, and TOWS 
matrix), can be adapted to study the critical opportunities 
and barriers related to the adoption of other technologies 
in organisations in different sectors. 
In the remaining sections of this research, Section 2 
presents the literature review, followed by an explanation 
of the research methodology in Section 3. The result of 
the research is discussed in Section 4. Lastly, Section 5 is 
the discussion and conclusion. 
 
2. Literature Review 
 
2.1. Blockchain Technology 
 
Blockchain technology, since its first real-world 
application in 2009 as a foundation of the first 
cryptocurrency called “Bitcoin” [22], has evolved into one 
of the most promising technologies in the world [23]. The 
blockchain, referred to as distributed ledger technology, 
acts as a decentralised database of records of all 
transactions that are shared among all members of the 
network [24]. To verify the validity of transactions in 
blockchains, a distributed consensus mechanism of the 
majority of participating members is used. Moreover, as 
each block in the blockchain is linked together, it is very 
difficult for anyone to modify information once it is 
published [25]. 
According to Attaran and Gunasekaran [26], there are 
6 principles of blockchain technology as follows: 
1. Distributed Database. Identical databases are 
replicated in a distributed manner and stored in many 
different locations. Each party can access the entire 
database. The data in the blockchain is not controlled by 
a single party. Transaction records can be viewed and 
verified directly by any parties without third-party 
intermediaries. 
2. Peer-to-Peer Transmission. A centralised system is 
not required, and communication can happen directly 
between peers. On the same network, each node 
simultaneously can “store” and “forward” data to all other 
nodes. 
3. Transparency with Pseudonymity. There is full 
transparency on transactions that occur between addresses 
to any parties who have access to the network. A change 
to one address will be updated for others. A unique 
alphanumeric address is assigned to each node on the 
blockchain. Each party can decide whether to remain 
anonymous or not. 
4. Irreversibility of Records. A transaction record cannot 
be altered once it is put in the database, as it is connected 
to every transaction record that happened before it. 
Computational algorithms are used to make sure that the 
records are stored permanently in chronological order and 
visible to all other parties. 
5. Computational Logic. Because the nature of the 
ledger is digital, algorithms can be used to automatically 
trigger transactions between nodes. 
6. Transaction Speed. Without a need for human 
intervention, transactions on the blockchain are fully 
completed and verifiable in a matter of seconds.  
The stages of blockchain evolution can be divided 
into 4 stages as follows: 
• Blockchain 1.0 [27] refers to the first application of 
blockchain technology related to decentralised digital 
currencies and digital payment systems. Blockchain is 
defined as the “Internet of Money” that connects finances, 
which is comparable to the “Internet of Things” (IoT) that 
connects devices. The most prominent application of the 
blockchain is Bitcoin, the first and largest digital currency, 
which utilises a Proof-of-Work (PoW) consensus 
mechanism where a new block in the blockchain is 
generated by solving a specific mathematical puzzle [28]. 
• Blockchain 2.0 [23] refers to the development of 
applications beyond payments, transfers, and transactions 
of digital currencies using the blockchain and smart 
contracts. Smart contracts, featuring the same functions as 
traditional contracts, are computer programs defined by 
the code and can automatically execute the terms of 
contracts (i.e. whether to act or not act) in a transparent 
manner [25]. For this reason, trust between parties in 
making agreements can be removed using smart contracts. 
Examples of such applications are financial transactions 
(e.g. stock, derivatives, bonds, and futures) and legal 
agreements (e.g. contracts, land titles, and property titles). 
• Blockchain 3.0 [29] refers to the generation of 
blockchain that involves Decentralised Applications 
(DApps). DApps are built with back-end code that allows 
the creation of decentralised data storage and computing, 
running on a distributed network of computers that 
directly connects users and providers. Antonopoulos and 
Wood [30] describe a DApp as a web application that has 
smart contracts and is built on top of the blockchain. Raval 
[31] provides a stronger definition of a DApp as follows: 
1) it must be an open-source application; 2) it must have 
internal currency necessary for the use of the application 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 59 
(i.e. transaction fees); 3) it must have decentralised 
consensus; and 4) it must have no central point of failure 
as it runs on several different networks in a distributed 
fashion.  
• Blockchain 4.0 [29] is a recent and emerging 
evolution of blockchain technology, which refers to the 
progression that there is a combination of blockchain 
technology with other advanced technologies such as 
Artificial Intelligence (AI). Blockchain 4.0 allows 
blockchain technology to be used in business to respond 
to industry demands [32]. The integration of blockchain 
with different technologies helps solve complex problems 
and fulfil business needs because it can provide data 
accuracy and improve the data recording process. An 
example of a successful use case is CognitiveScale, an AI 
startup based in the United States, which uses blockchain 
for storing the results of an AI application for regulatory 
compliance in financial markets [33].  
 
2.2. Blockchain Technology in the Online Gaming 
Industry 
 
The online gaming industry is one of the industries 
that could potentially be disrupted by blockchain 
technology. The reason is blockchain technology offers 
developers and players, as never before, new ways of 
interacting with gaming platforms. Moreover, gamers 
could be considered early adopters of blockchain 
technology, as they already have been familiar with the 
uses and the concept of virtual currency models, which 
have a similar function to cryptocurrencies in blockchains 
[26]. 
 
2.2.1. Ethereum 
 
From a technical perspective, Antonopoulos and 
Wood [30] describe Ethereum as “a deterministic but 
practically unbounded state machine, consisting of a 
globally accessible singleton state and a virtual machine 
that applies changes to that state”. This, in essence, means 
that Ethereum is an open-source and decentralised 
blockchain network in which smart contracts can be 
executed. Ethereum is well-known for its ability to host 
DApps, which are composed of smart contracts [23], [29]. 
The executions of smart contracts are processed by 
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM), which runs on the 
computers of all participants on the network. For this 
reason, Ethereum is also known as “a distributed state 
machine in which rules for computing a new valid state 
from block to block are determined by the EVM” [33]. 
“Ether”, often referred to as “ETH”, is the native 
cryptocurrency used by the Ethereum network for 
transaction fees when executing smart contracts. The 
programming language used for writing smart contracts in 
Ethereum is called “Solidity”. 
 
2.2.2. Non-fungible tokens (NFTs) 
 
A non-fungible token (NFT) is a token standard 
originally introduced by the Ethereum Request for 
Comments (ERC) 721 proposal on the Ethereum 
blockchain [30]. Unlike standard cryptocurrencies (e.g. 
Bitcoin) in which all tokens are equivalent and 
indistinguishable, each NFT is unique, distinct, and not 
interchangeable. Smart contracts in the blockchain can 
track the transfer of ownership and prove the existence of 
NFTs. NFTs thus have properties that are traceable, 
indivisible, verifiable, irreplaceable, unique, and tradable 
[35] 
The opposite side of NFTs is fungible tokens, which 
are designed based on the ERC-20 standard. The ERC-20 
standard is a uniform Application Programming Interface 
(API) for smart contracts used for creating fungible tokens 
within the Ethereum blockchain. The majority of 
Ethereum-based tokens are based on the ERC-20 
standard with properties that are non-unique and 
interchangeable [30]. 
 
2.2.3. Play-to-earn 
 
Digital games that are designed and built using the 
blockchain (and its underlying technologies) are referred 
to as “blockchain-based games” [36]. Blockchain-based 
games thus essentially are DApps that have NFTs as 
digital assets (i.e. in-game items such as decorative items 
and characters). With blockchain technology and the 
properties of NFTs, the concept of digital scarcity can be 
created [35], [37]. As a result, a new business model “play-
to-earn” [38], also referred to as “P2E”, has emerged in 
the online gaming industry, which also could be 
considered a new paradigm of how human input can be 
converted into capital. In the P2E model, players can earn 
financial incentives for playing and progressing in 
blockchain-based games. According to Binance Academy 
[37], there are two primary ways in which players can earn 
financial incentives: 1) earning in-game currencies by, for 
example, completing daily challenges or missions; and 2) 
earning or trading in-game items which are NFTs. The 
P2E model and the properties of NFTs have allowed 
blockchain-based games to surpass $US4.5 billion in terms 
of NFT trading volume, accounting for over 20% of the 
total revenue from all NFTs in the blockchain industry in 
2021 [15]. 
A prime example of a game operating under a P2E 
model is “Axie Infinity”, released in 2018 by Sky Mavis, 
which is a game studio based in Vietnam. Axie Infinity is 
one of the most successful and most well-known 
Ethereum-based games, having managed to reach daily 
active users of 1.8 million, daily transactions of $US33 
million, and a total sales volume since the game launch of 
over $US2.8 billion in October 2021 [39]. In the game’s 
ecosystem, players can collect virtual pets called “Axies”, 
which essentially are NFTs that players can purchase, own, 
or trade through the game’s marketplace, and battle them 
in turn-based strategy gameplay (see Fig. 6). Each player 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
60 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
needs to have three Axies to form a team to play the game. 
In contrast to the traditional business model such as the 
F2P model where the revenue is generated by IAPs, the 
revenue generated in Axie Infinity is primarily coming 
from charging a 4.25% transaction fee for every 
transaction made by its players on its NFT marketplace 
and when players breed new Axies [41]. Figure 7 shows 
that Sky Mavis has earned over 99% of its cumulative 
revenue of more than $US1.3 billion in just 6 months after 
the launch of the Ronin network, which is an Ethereum-
linked sidechain developed to decrease transaction costs 
for its players [42]. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Axie Infinity’s gameplay [40]. 
 
 
Fig. 7. Axie Infinity’s revenue and market capitalisation 
growth (1 June 2021 – 6 January 2022) [42]. 
Axie Infinity has a complex P2E economy, as it 
involves two main cryptocurrencies: “Axie Infinity Shard 
(AXS)” and “Smooth Love Potion (SLP)”, both of which 
can be purchased or sold through major cryptocurrency 
exchanges (designed to function like shares) and can be 
earned through participating in the game.  
1. Axie Infinity Shard (AXS), is an ERC-20 
governance token with the purpose of aligning the 
incentives between players and game developers through 
user-generated content initiatives. Players can receive AXS 
tokens as rewards for interacting with Axie Infinity in 
various activities such as staking their tokens, playing the 
game, and participating in governance votes. The total 
supply of AXS is 270,000,000, 21% of which is gradually 
allocated to Sky Mavis over a span of 4.5 years, and 15% 
of which is distributed through a process called Initial 
Coin Offering (ICO), which is a public and private sale of 
AXS tokens [42]. 
2. Smooth Love Potion (SLP), is an ERC-20 token 
mostly serving as the utility token rewarded to players after 
spending a certain amount of time in the game such as 
completing in-game missions and winning battles. 
Another use case of SLP is breeding new Axies, which is 
a process in which SLP tokens will be burned to create 
new a new Axie. The total supply of SLP is unlimited. 
Most of Axie Infinity’s players are from emerging 
countries that are severely affected by the COVID-19 
pandemic such as the Philippines, Brazil, and Venezuela. 
It is reported that the game is able to create a new digital 
economy for its players, transforming their time and skills 
from playing P2E games into income [39], [43], [44]. 
According to a survey (n = 1,103) conducted in the 
Philippines by Balthazar [45], 32% of the respondents are 
ready to quit their current jobs if P2E games allow them 
to earn enough income. Because of the high demand and 
popularity of Axie Infinity, different types of retail stores 
in the Philippines (e.g. food and beverages, travel, 
healthcare) have accepted SLP as a form of payment or 
provided discounts for customers who are willing to pay 
for their products or services using SLP [46], [47]. 
 
2.2.4. Web 3.0 
 
The World Wide Web, since its inception in 1989 by 
Tim Berners-Lee [48], has continuously evolved until now. 
Web 3.0 is the most recent evolution of the internet (see 
Fig. 8).  
 
 
 
Fig. 8. The evolution of the Internet [48]. 
Web 1.0: Read-Only refers to a platform in the earliest 
generation of the internet evolution through which 
information or content could be published in a static or 
read-only form. Most participants are users, while there 
are only a few developers. There also is no interaction 
between the websites and users [50]. 
Web 2.0: Read-Write refers to interactive social websites 
[32]. Web 2.0 improves how humans can interact with the 
internet, as it allows greater social interactions (e.g. view, 
create, share, and edit) among collaborative parties such as 
users and developers [50]. Most of the current social media 
websites with user-generated content on the internet are 
Web 2.0 applications. According to Tekisalp [51], with 
Web 2.0 architecture, while users would have little to no 
control over their data, developers would be the only 
person dictating who may have access to servers, user data 
and track records, and how long the content should be 
kept in a database. Many cases of social media bans in 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 61 
recent years from companies such as Facebook [52], 
YouTube [53], and Twitter [54] are great examples of this. 
Web 3.0: Read-Write-Own usually refers to the semantic 
web that has blockchain as an underlying technology [32], 
[55], [56]. However, according to Ethereum Foundation 
[57], Web 3.0 is simply another term for DApps. It is 
believed that Web 3.0 can revolutionise how data is 
structured in the back end, how agreements are settled, 
and how value is exchanged [58], as it is a decentralised 
ecosystem that is built so that both developers and users 
can make changes in both the front end and the back end. 
According to Tekisalp [51], Web 3.0 architecture enabled 
by public ledgers would introduce a brand new 
infrastructure layer, interactions, functionalities, and 
requirements to both developers and users. As a result, the 
following features would be available with Web 3.0 
applications:  
1. Applications can store some (or all of the content) 
and logic on the blockchain, which will become 
transparent and accessible to the public; and 
2. Users would be able to have direct control over 
their content and logic on the blockchain. Accounts or 
privileged APIs would not be needed to interact with data 
on the blockchain. 
Table 1 represents a comparison of Web 2.0 (i.e. 
traditional games) and Web 3.0 (i.e. blockchain-based 
games) in 3 main aspects: platform characteristics, user 
interaction, and commercials. 
 
2.2.5. The metaverse 
 
The metaverse is currently a major trend in the 
blockchain and cryptocurrency industry, if not the entire 
technology industry, although its definition is still varied 
and themes of how it is or will eventually turn into are still 
emerging [42]. Davis et al. [60] describe the metaverse as 
immersive and three-dimensional virtual spaces that have 
the representation of avatars, the use of software agents, 
and real-world metaphor as the means of how people 
interact with each other in a way that there are no physical 
limitations. Marr [61] describes the metaverse as a shared, 
persistent, three-dimensional virtual world. JPMorgan [59] 
describes the metaverse as a place where physical and 
digital lives are merged, resulting in the creation of a 
unified and virtual community for people to work, play, 
transact, and socialise. Facebook recently changed its 
company name to Meta in an attempt to announce a new 
direction in building the metaverse [62]. As the world’s 
leading social media platform, it believes that the 
metaverse is a collection of multiple virtual worlds that 
allow users to build and explore with other people who are 
not there with them physically [63].  
According to Newzoo [64], the main enablers and 
drivers of the metaverse are as follows:  
1. The growth of immersive technologies (e.g. AR 
and VR, live streaming technologies, and cloud 
technologies; 
2. The expansion of decentralised infrastructure (i.e. 
blockchain); 
3. The emergence of cross-platform development 
and online social multiplayer platforms; 
4. The accessibility of content creation and user-
generated content; 
5. The growth of games as social media; and 
6. The advancement of hardware, network 
infrastructure (e.g. 5G), spatial computing, visualisation, 
and AI.  
The concept of the metaverse is also connected with 
Blockchain 4.0 in the sense that blockchain is applied to 
the business and is incorporated with other advanced 
technologies which, in this case, are AR and VR hardware. 
The metaverse in the global market is expected to reach 
$US678.8 billion by 2030 with a CAGR of 39.4% [65]. It 
is reported that every industry (e.g. e-commerce, real estate, 
media, entertainment, etc.) would take part in the 
metaverse because there are so many business 
opportunities in this virtual space, and they will be likely 
to use game-as-a-platform to create social activities and 
connect with their users [64]. One of the current leaders 
in the virtual world is “The Sandbox” [66], which is a 
metaverse project built on the Ethereum blockchain 
where users can build, own, and monetise their NFT 
assets through the P2E model. “SAND” is the ERC-20 
native token used to interact with its ecosystem. Examples 
of traditional companies who have entered the metaverse 
space by collaborating with The Sandbox are as follows: 
• HSBC, one of the world’s largest financial 
services, has announced a partnership with The Sandbox 
to acquire a plot of digital land, which will be used for co-
creating new experiences with its customers [67]; 
• Gucci, an Italian luxury fashion brand, has 
purchased a plot of land to expand its virtual fashion 
experiences as part of the Gucci Vault project, which is an 
experimental online store that has already listed, for 
example, a collection of Gucci-themed NFTs [68]; 
• Adidas, a sportswear giant, revealed a 
collaboration with The Sandbox and announced that it has 
owned a parcel of virtual land called “adiVerse” [69]; and 
• SCB [70], a bank in Thailand, has announced 
through a press release that one of its subsidiaries 
“SCB10X” will be launching its virtual headquarters in 
The Sandbox (see Fig. 9) to foster virtual community and 
explore the new frontier for the digital economy. 
 
 
 
Fig. 9. SCB 10X’s Headquarters in The Sandbox (Adapted 
from SCB 10X [71]).
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
62 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
Table 1. Comparison of Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 in the online gaming industry (Adapted from JPMorgan [59]). 
 
 
 Web 2.0 Web 3.0 
Examples of 
game titles 
• Second Life 
• Fortnite 
• World of Warcraft 
• Axie Infinity 
• Decentraland 
• The Sandbox 
Platform 
Characteristics 
Platform structure • Owned by the game 
developers 
• Decision-making is based on 
shareholder value 
• Governed by the community 
or decentralised autonomous 
organisation (DAO) 
• Participation enabled through 
native governance tokens 
• User consensus is used for 
making decisions 
Data storage • Centralised • Decentralised 
Platform format • PC 
• Mobile 
• Console 
• AR, VR 
• PC 
• Mobile (in development) 
• AR, VR (in development) 
Payments 
infrastructure 
• Regular payments such as 
credit/debit cards 
• Cryptocurrency wallets 
User Interaction 
Ownership of 
digital assets 
• Leased within a specific 
platform where assets are 
purchased 
• Truly owned (in the form of 
NFTs) 
Portability of 
digital assets 
• Unable to be transferred to 
other platforms 
• Transferable 
• Cross-blockchain compatible 
(in development)  
Content creators • Game developers • Game developers 
• Community 
Activities • Socialisation 
• Livestreaming 
• Multiplayer gaming 
• Electronic sports (esports) 
competition 
• Same activities as Web 2.0 
• P2E gaming 
Identity • In-game avatars • Self-sovereign and 
interoperable identity 
• Anonymous private-key-based 
identities 
Commercials 
Means of 
Payments 
• In-game virtual currencies • Cryptocurrencies 
Revenue creation [Example F2P model]  
• For every IAP, App Store 
earns 30% and game 
developers earn 70%  
• Developers can earn revenue 
from transaction fees and 
directly from NFT sales 
• Users can earn financial 
incentives from in-game 
participation through the P2E 
model 
• Creators can earn through 
royalties on secondary trades 
of NFTs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 63 
2.3. Studies on Opportunities for the Adoption of 
Blockchain-Based Games 
 
It should be logical to say that the benefits of 
adopting blockchain-based games for online gaming 
companies will come from the properties of the 
underlying technology (i.e. blockchain). There are many 
opportunities related to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games that could be brought to the online gaming industry 
for both game developers and players, all of which are 
summarised in Table 2 based on many different sources 
including academic literature, articles, websites, blogs, and 
survey papers. 
2.4. Studies on Barriers to the Adoption of 
Blockchain-Based Games 
 
Despite a rapid increase in recognised opportunities 
for the adoption of blockchain-based games, the 
blockchain industry is still in its infancy and is new to the 
online gaming industry. Although there are clear benefits 
and new experiences enabled by blockchain-based games 
that online gaming companies could offer to their users, 
not all of them will immediately enter into such uncharted 
territories as the blockchain and cryptocurrency industry. 
There are many potential barriers that are hampering the 
adoption of blockchain technology, particularly for 
traditional online gaming companies, all of which are 
summarised in Table 3. 
 
2.5. Related Tools 
 
2.5.1. Benefits framework 
 
To have a complete and systematic understanding of 
potential opportunities for the adoption of blockchain-
based games, a comprehensive framework for classifying 
those opportunities is necessary. Shang and Seddon [1] 
propose a framework for classifying Enterprise Resource 
Planning (ERP) benefits from a business perspective, 
which is divided into 5 dimensions: operational, 
managerial, strategic, infrastructure, and organisational 
benefits. It is believed that Shang and Seddon’s [1] benefits 
framework is suitable to be used for classifying potential 
opportunities related to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in an online gaming company in Thailand for the 
following 2 reasons: 
1) Structure. The framework is used for classifying 
and evaluating the benefits of enterprise systems, which 
can be used as a guide for this research, which is an 
explorative study. The framework can also help classify 
the opportunities for the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in the case company into proper dimensions: 
operational, managerial, strategic, infrastructure, and 
organisational benefits. 
2) Academic proof. The framework can be used to 
show a comprehensive overview of the enterprise systems’ 
benefits from a managerial perspective. It also is used and 
refined by many researchers for academic literature related 
to ERP and information systems [81], [82]. Moreover, a 
study by Fosso Wamba et al. [83] shows that the 
framework can be used to evaluate the value of blockchain 
technology in the supply chain industry.  
 
2.5.2. Technology-Organisation-Environment (TOE) 
framework 
 
The Technology-Organisation-Environment (TOE) 
framework [84] explains how the three dimensions of an 
organisation’s context affect the adoption and 
implementation of technology. According to Baker [85], 
each dimension in the TOE framework can be described 
as follows: 
• The technology context refers to the availability 
and the characteristics of technological innovation. 
Analysing both existing technologies in the organisation 
and the innovation that is not currently in use can set limits 
on the scope and rate of technological change to which 
the organisation could adapt and change in the future.  
• The organisational context mainly refers to the 
resources of the organisation such as organisational size, 
the level of available resources, and internal 
communication processes.  
• The environmental context includes the market 
structure, government regulation, and support 
infrastructure.  
The TOE framework can help investigate factors that 
have an impact on the adoption of innovation at the 
organisational level in a wide range of technologies and 
contexts in different industries [85]. Moreover, it is evident 
that the framework could be applied to identify the 
challenges to the adoption of blockchain technology in 
different industries: food supply chain [86], government 
and public service [87], and energy sector [88]. Therefore, 
to investigate potential barriers that could affect the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in an online gaming 
company in Thailand, the TOE framework is considered 
a suitable tool.  
 
2.5.3. Failure Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) 
 
According to Henley and Kumamoto [89], Failure 
Mode and Effect Analysis (FMEA) is constructed using a 
forward logic, which is also known as an inductive analysis. 
FMEA is a formal design methodology originally used to 
improve design and production processes by identifying 
potential weaknesses, resulting in being able to pinpoint 
basic faults at the component level and determining the 
effects. Many industries (e.g. military, aerospace, 
automobile, power plants, software, healthcare, and 
catering) have adopted FMEA as a tool for assessing the 
reliability and safety of various processes and phases of the 
product life cycle [90]. Sharma and Srivastava [90] also 
state that the most effective way of using FMEA is to  
 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
64 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
Table 2. Literature review on opportunities for the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
 
Supporting Studies Opportunities for the Adoption of Blockchain-Based Games 
Al-Jaroodi and Mohamed [72] • Transparency and full control over virtual assets for players 
• No restrictions for players on platforms where virtual assets can be used (i.e. 
cross platforms), which can improve flexibility and video game experiences 
• Introduction of new reward mechanisms between developers and players 
• Improved security related to virtual asset ownership on gaming platforms (e.g. 
illegal trading, hacking, stealing) 
• Secure and faster payment method between developers and players 
Attaran and Gunasekaran [26] • Transparency and decentralised control of virtual assets 
• Reduction of fraud and lost revenue from duplicated virtual assets, hacking 
and stealing 
• Promoting credibility, accountability, and good behaviour within the gaming 
ecosystem resulting from records on the blockchain 
• Improvement of the games from receiving user feedback and reviews through 
incentive mechanisms 
• Parallel gaming universe (i.e. players can use characters and items across 
several platforms) enabled by smart contracts 
• Unrestricted and permissionless gaming economies for developers (e.g. 
developers are allowed to use free economies to generate revenue by charging 
fees or selling virtual assets) 
• Proof of limited supply and asset scarcity 
• Potential for democratising the gaming industry (e.g. development of 
governance and voting features) 
Besançon et al. [73] • Improved trust between developers and players 
• Game server’s cost reduction using peer-to-peer (P2P) networks 
• Better ownership management of virtual assets (e.g. crafting and trading of in-
game assets with other players) 
• Facilitation of co-creation activities (e.g. the governance and user-generated 
content of the game) 
BGA [74] • Asset ownership for players 
• New reward systems for players 
• New revenue streams for developers (e.g. P2E, sale and open trading of 
digital assets, revenue-sharing model) 
• Decentralised project ownership 
• Transparency 
• Collaborations among stakeholders 
• Creativity and gameplay 
• Provable fair game mechanics 
• Improved data security 
• Convenient data management 
• Lower transaction costs 
BITKRAFT [75] • Healthier game economies 
• Better unit economics 
• Better economic alignment 
• Robust network assurances from public blockchains 
• Prevention of value leakage lost to peripheral markets 
Kalra et al. [76] • Real-time prevention against cheating and distributed denial-of-service 
(DDoS) attacks 
• Increased robustness of online games using the P2P architecture 
Nha [77], Nystrom and Sun [42] • New monetisation models 
• Opportunity for expanding user base globally 
Pfeiffer et al. [78] • Protection against forgery, non-tampering of in-game collectables 
• Game crime (i.e. black market) restriction 
• P2P trade (where developers can earn commissions)  
• Possibility of cross-platform worlds for virtual assets (e.g. characters, 
weapons, and tokens) 
• Transparency of the game mechanics (e.g. distribution of in-game points, 
badges, and achievements) 
• Privacy protection 
• Tokenised esports tournaments 
• Establishment of game ecosystems on blockchain 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 65 
 
Table 3. Literature review on barriers to the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
Supporting Studies Barriers to the Adoption of Blockchain-Based Games 
Attaran and Gunasekaran [26] • Scalability limitations (e.g. slow network speed, high transaction fees, and 
network congestion during high traffic) 
• Sustainability issues of blockchain-based games 
• Traditional games’ advantages (e.g. superior gameplay and graphics) 
Besançon et al. [73] • Lack of full control over the content in some aspects (i.e. unwanted content is 
more difficult to be censored) 
• Technological complexity 
• Lack of interoperability between game engines and blockchains 
• Data storage issues 
BGA [74] • Regulatory uncertainty 
• Poor user experience and gameplay quality 
• Lack of standardisation 
• Lack of education or understanding of blockchain-based games 
• Shortage of technical experts 
• Implementation challenges 
• Lack of on/off ramps (i.e. being able to conveniently convert between fiat 
money and cryptocurrencies) 
• Technology limitations 
• Lack of interoperability 
• Resistance from industry incumbents 
• Niche market, insufficient market size 
BITKRAFT [75] • Blockchain trilemma (i.e. decentralisation, scalability, security) 
• Speed 
• High and volatile transaction fees 
• Environmental impact 
• High switching costs for traditional developers 
• Limitations on game design 
• Less control of game economies 
• Poor user experience in managing virtual assets 
McKinney et al. [79] • Intellectual property issues related to NFTs 
• Regulatory risks 
• Tax treatment 
Mozuch [80] • Investor risk, unconvincing return on investment (ROI) 
• Blockchain-based games’ development challenges 
• Public relations and the possibility of community backlash 
Nha [77] • Shortage of suitable developers who know both games and blockchain 
technologies 
• Market pressure for products, which compromises quality 
Pfeiffer et al. [78] • Lack of technological knowledge to distinguish different blockchain networks 
and to decide which network to rely on 
• Low social acceptance of blockchain technology 
• Blockchain tokens are not yet mainstream 
• Lack of knowledge on which data in the gaming environment should be 
stored on the blockchain 
• Know-your-customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) regulations 
consider using it from the beginning of the design stage, 
process control, operation, and throughout the life cycle 
of products or services. By developing FMEA, it is 
believed that the severity or the chance of occurrence of 
failure modes can be prevented or avoided and that the 
risks can be prioritised. A failure mode is a way in which a 
component or process might fail to meet its design intent. 
After each failure mode is identified, a cross-function team 
is often established to determine its effect on the whole 
system [91]. 
In the standard FMEA process, each failure mode is 
evaluated by considering the risk priority number (RPN), 
which is the multiplication of the probability of 
occurrence (O), the severity of the failure (S), and the 
probability of the failure being detected (D) (see Fig. 10). 
A numeric scale from 1 to 10 is usually used to rate and 
evaluate each of the three risk factors in the standard 
FMEA. Failure modes that have greater RPN values 
should be prioritised first as they are generally considered 
more important [92]. 
 
Risk Priority Number (RPN)= 
Occurrence (O)×Severity (S)×Detection (D) 
 
Fig. 10 RPN Calculation Source (Adapted from Sharma 
and Srivastava [90]). 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
66 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
According to Pillay and Wang [93], FMEA is suitable 
to be used as part of quantitative analysis, meaning it can 
predict the likelihood of failure modes and identify the 
critical part that could negatively and severely affect the 
systems. The purposes of using FMEA are as follows: 
• Analysing the system to assess the effects of 
failure modes; 
• Identifying the potential points of failure; and 
• Improving or developing processes to reduce or 
eliminate the chance of occurrence of failure modes.  
Figure 11 illustrates the process that would normally 
be required for carrying out an FMEA. 
 
 
  
Fig. 11. Standard FMEA procedure (Adapted from Pillay 
and Wang [93]). 
2.5.4. Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) 
 
The Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP), introduced by 
Saaty [94], is a decision-making method that is designed to 
solve multiple criteria problems by helping the decision-
makers to be able to prioritise each factor and arrange 
them in a hierarchical form. In addition to typical decision-
making, it is found that there are many different 
applications of AHP in various industries, some of which 
are forecasting, planning and development, benefit-cost 
analysis, selection, allocations, and priority and ranking 
[95]. There are 4 steps for applying the AHP, according to 
Saaty [96], [97], as follows: 
1. Design of a hierarchy for the problem. The top level of 
the hierarchy is the goal of the problem (i.e. the objective 
of the decision-maker). The second level is the criteria that 
contribute to the goal. The bottom level usually is the list 
of alternatives. 
2. Construction of a pairwise comparison matrix. This step 
is to arrange a matrix from all the elements in the second 
level using a pairwise comparison scale (see Table 4). By 
rating a scale ranging from  1 to 9, the judgements of 
decision-makers are used to determine which element 
dominates the other. In a group decision-making setting, 
the geometric mean can be used to calculate the average 
score on each pairwise comparison because it is rated on 
a ratio scale [98]. 
Table 4. Relative scale measurement source (Adapted 
from Hummel et al. [98]. 
Scale Verbal Judgments 
1 Equally important 
2 Equally to moderately more important 
3 Moderately more important 
4 Moderately to strongly more important 
5 Strongly more important 
6 Strongly to very strongly more important 
7 Very strongly more important 
8 Very strongly to extremely more important 
9 Extremely more important 
 
3. Derivation of priorities. According to Ishizaka and 
Lusti [99], one of the common methods used for the 
derivation of priorities (i.e. “the priority vector” or “the 
principal eigenvector” [96]) from a pairwise comparison 
matrix in the AHP is called the “mean of normalised 
values”. This can be done if a pairwise comparison matrix 
is considered consistent, as shown in Eq. (1), which could 
be determined when the rules of transitivity (see Eq. (2)) 
and reciprocity (see Eq. (3)) are satisfied. 
 
A= 
[
 
 
 
 
 
p
1
/p
1
… p
1
/p
j
… p
1
/p
n
… 1 … … …
p
i
/p
1
… 1 … p
i
/p
n
… … … 1 …
p
n
/p
1
… p
n
/p
j
… p
n
/p
n]
 
 
 
 
 
  (1) 
 
aij=aik∙akj   (2) 
 
aij= 
1
aji
    (3) 
where i, j and k are any alternatives of the matrix 
 
Also, in a consistent pairwise comparison matrix, all the 
comparisons 𝑎𝑖𝑗 follow Eq. (4). 
 
aij= 
p
i
p
j
    (4) 
where p
i
 is the priority of the alternative i  
 
The demonstration of the calculation process of the mean 
of normalised values comprises 3 steps as follows: 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 67 
1. Given the pairwise comparison matrix, as shown 
in Eq. (1), the first step is to find the sum of all the 
elements of column j, as shown in Eq. (5). 
 
p
1
p
j
+⋯+
p
i
p
j
+⋯+
p
n
p
j
=
∑ p
i
n
i=1
p
j
  (5) 
 
2. The next step is the normalisation of column j, 
which is calculated by dividing Eq. (4) by Eq. (5), as shown 
in Eq. (6). 
 
pi
pj
∑ pi
n
i=1
pj
=
p
i
p
j
∙
p
j
∑ p
i
n
i=1
=
p
i
∑ p
i
n
i=1
   (6) 
 
3. The last step is to derive the priority by finding 
the mean of the elements of row i, as shown in Eq. (7). 
 
(
p
i
∑ p
i
n
i=1
+…+
p
i
∑ p
i
n
i=1
) ∙
1
n
=
n∙p
i
∑ p
i
n
i=1
∙
1
n
=
p
i
∑ p
i
n
i=1
  (7) 
 
4. Logical consistency. In the AHP, there could be 
inconsistency in making decisions because it is common 
that decision-makers may not give precise estimations, 
especially if they need to deal with intangible elements [97]. 
For this reason, it is important to determine whether the 
decisions in the pairwise comparison matrix are consistent 
or not by calculating the consistency ratio (CR). If the CR 
is 0.1 or less, the problem is accurately structured in the 
pairwise comparison matrix, and the estimate of the 
priority vector is acceptable. However, if the CR is greater 
than 0.1, an attempt to improve consistency should be 
considered, as it means the responses of the decision-
maker are inconsistent or random. 
 There are 5 steps for the calculation of CR, adapted 
from Al-Harbi [100], as follows: 
1) Multiplying the pairwise comparison matrix by 
the priority vector (i.e. eigenvector) 
2) Dividing each resulting value from (i.) by their 
respective eigenvector element 
3) Calculating the principal eigenvalue ( λmax ) by 
finding the mean of resulting values from (ii.) 
4) Calculating the consistency index (CI), as shown 
in Eq. (8) 
CI Calculation: 
CI=
λmax-n
n-1
    (8) 
where n is the size of elements in the matrix. 
 
5) Calculating the consistency ratio (CR), as shown 
in Eq. (9). 
CR Calculation: 
CR=
CI
RI
    (9) 
where RI is the random consistency index. 
 
The random consistency index is shown in Table 5. 
 
Table 5. Random consistency index source (Adapted from 
Al-Harbi [100]). 
Size of Matrix (n) Random Consistency 
1 0 
2 0 
3 0.58 
4 0.9 
5 1.12 
6 1.24 
7 1.32 
8 1.41 
9 1.45 
10 1.49 
 
2.5.5. Pareto diagram 
 
According to Grosfeld-Nir et al. [101], the Pareto 
principle, also referred to as the 80/20 rule, states that 
approximately 80% of the total wealth is from 20% of the 
population. The Pareto principle has shown that it can be 
applied to many managerial scenarios: roughly 80% of 
profits are generated from 20% of the projects; roughly 80% 
of a company’s revenue is generated from the top 20% of 
customers. Figure 12 shows a Pareto diagram where 
critical attributes can be revealed, as there is a clear 
illustration that 20% of the attributes account for around 
80% of relative frequency. As a result, it is believed that a 
Pareto diagram is a useful tool that can represent a 
summary of practical information, show critical attributes, 
and help set priorities. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 12. Pareto diagram [101]. 
2.5.6. TOWS matrix 
 
According to Weihrich [102], the TOWS matrix (see 
Fig. 13) is a conceptual framework used for formulating 
strategies in which external factors (i.e. threats and 
opportunities) are matched with internal factors (i.e. 
weaknesses and strengths). The TOWS matrix could be 
considered a variation of the SWOT (strengths, 
weaknesses, opportunities, and threats) analysis [103]. 
After all the factors are identified, they can be used in 
combination to formulate strategies, which are divided 
into 4 different types as follows: 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
68 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
1. Strengths and Opportunities (SO). The SO strategies 
can be used by the organisation to exploit its strengths and 
respond to opportunities. 
2. Strengths and Threats (ST). The ST strategies 
examine how the organisation’s strengths can be used to 
deal with external threats. 
3. Weaknesses and Opportunities (WO). The WO 
strategies aim to counter weaknesses by maximising 
opportunities. 
4. Weaknesses and Threats (WT). The WT strategies 
focus on how the organisation can minimise both 
weaknesses and threats. 
 
 
 
Fig. 13. The TOWS matrix (Adapted from Weihrich [102]). 
2.5.7. Integrated approach to quantifying opportunities 
and barriers 
 
Academic studies by many scholars have proven that 
FMEA can be used in combination with other problem-
solving, strategic planning, and management tools. Some 
examples are as follows:  
• Can and Erbiyik [104] use FMEA and Pareto 
analysis in their study for analysing risks related to the use 
of aerial images in landslide analysis; 
• Held and Brönnimann [107] investigate incidents 
of electrical vehicles’ batteries catching fire by using 
FMEA in combination with fault tree analysis (FTA) to 
analyse the failures and design experiments; and 
• Sutrisno et al. [108] develop a decision-making 
model for corrective action options by integrating FMEA 
with SWOT analysis. 
Moreover, in the context of technology adoption, an 
academic study by White [109] has shown that the concept 
of FMEA (and RPN value) can be used to prioritise the 
potential application and benefits of blockchain 
technology in addition to its traditional objective of 
identifying and evaluating failure modes of products or 
processes and their effects. It is also found that FMEA is 
used to investigate and prioritise trust barriers to online 
shopping in a study by Rasty et al. [110]. 
As for the TOE framework, it also has been used in 
conjunction with other tools and theories, some of which 
are as follows: 
• Alkhalil et al. [111] propose a model to explore 
the complexity of the decisions related to the migration of 
existing resources to cloud computing based on the 
concept of the TOE framework and the diffusion of 
innovation (DOI) theory; and 
• Tripopsakul [112] studies the factors influencing 
the adoption of social media as a business platform in 
Thailand by using an integrated model between the TOE 
framework and the technology acceptance model (TAM). 
It can be seen that different strategic techniques can 
be integrated and used in combination with each other. 
Therefore, in this research, the concept of FMEA will be 
used in conjunction with the AHP in a way that each 
element of the FMEA, namely Likelihood (L), Impact (I), 
and Control (C), will be weighted by the resulting priority 
vector (i.e. relative weights) from the AHP. The reason is 
that each element of FMEA is expected to have a different 
effect from the others, for which the AHP will be able to 
help determine the weight. The resulting value, referred to 
as the priority number (PN), then will be used to prioritise 
the opportunities (categorised under the benefits 
framework) and the barriers (categorised under the TOE 
framework) that are related to the adoption of blockchain-
based games in the case company. After that, the Pareto 
diagram will be used to find critical opportunities and 
barriers. The TOWS matrix will then be used to formulate 
strategies to respond to all those factors, which will be 
followed by a suggested roadmap with action plans 
required for the adoption of blockchain-based games. All 
these methods will be discussed in detail in the following 
sections. 
 
3. Research Methodology 
 
The methodology of this research is shown in Fig. 14 
 
 
 
Fig. 14. Research methodology overview. 
 
3.1. Identification of Opportunities and Barriers 
 
To have a broad understanding of how blockchain 
technology is connected to the online gaming industry, the 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 69 
first step of this research is to conduct a literature review 
to find out the current applications and use cases of 
blockchain technology in the context of the online gaming 
industry. Not only can the literature give a broad 
understanding of how blockchain can be applied to the 
online gaming industry, but it also shows the fundamental 
functions of blockchain technology, the characteristics of 
blockchain technology,  and how blockchain technology 
works. The understanding of the core concept of 
blockchain technology in the online gaming industry can 
be used as a foundation for the rest of the research, which 
studies potential opportunities and barriers related to the 
adoption of blockchain-based games.  
The main source of data for opportunities and barriers 
related to the adoption of blockchain-based games in this 
research is the literature. However, it is expected that there 
are very limited academic studies on the topic of this 
research. One of the main reasons is due to the fact that 
Cryptokitties, which is highly regarded as the first 
blockchain-based game, was just released in late 
November 2017 [113]. This confirms that the applications 
of blockchain in the online gaming industry (i.e. 
blockchain as the supporting technology of online games)  
are still in the infancy stage. For this reason, after having 
finished a review of the literature, an additional list of 
opportunities and barriers related to the adoption of 
blockchain-based games in the company will be proposed 
in this research, resulting in a more comprehensive list of 
opportunities and barriers ready to be used in the next 
steps of the research. 
 
3.2. Classification of Opportunities and Barriers 
 
This step is to categorise all the identified 
opportunities and barriers into systematic groups. All the 
identified opportunities and barriers will be consolidated 
by removing the duplicate ones and combining those that 
are similar in meaning and terminology. Given the novelty 
of blockchain technology, it is clear that the nature of this 
research will be exploratory [72], [109], [114], [115]. Thus, 
it is necessary to have academic theories and frameworks 
that can function as a structure of this research to 
categorise all the opportunities and barriers. The list of all 
identified opportunities will be categorised into 5 
dimensions: operational, managerial, strategic, 
infrastructural, and organisational. This structure is 
constructed by adopting the benefits framework that is 
originally used for classifying ERP benefits proposed by 
Shang and Seddon [1]. The benefits framework can help 
conceptualise the business values of blockchain-based 
games from a managerial perspective and provide a 
generic and systematic model for this research. As for the 
list of all identified barriers, they will be classified into 
specific categories based on the TOE framework, which 
includes 3 dimensions: technological, organisational, and 
environmental. 
 
3.3. Evaluation of Opportunities and Barriers 
 
This step is designed to evaluate each of the identified 
opportunities, which are categorised under the benefits 
framework, and each of the identified barriers, which are 
categorised under the TOE framework. Experts at the 
case company, who have sufficient knowledge of 
blockchain technology as well as understand its potential 
and use cases in the online gaming industry, will be invited 
to participate in a questionnaire that will ask them to assign 
a score to each factor related to the adoption of 
blockchain-based games in the company. There are 3 
criteria for the selection of experts, proposed by Wang et 
al. [115], which are used in this research: 1) roles and 
responsibilities of the participants; 2) knowledge and 
experience in the industry; and 3) time and willingness of 
the participants. 
A 5-point Likert scale questionnaire will be sent to a 
group of experts to assign a score to each opportunity and 
barrier factor ranging from 1 to 5 in 3 elements: 
Likelihood (L), Impact (I), and Control (C) (Table 6 – 
Table 11). The questionnaire is separated into 2 main parts: 
opportunities and barriers. In terms of opportunities, 
there are a total of 5 tables including 4 operational 
opportunities, 3 managerial opportunities, 9 strategic 
opportunities, 4 infrastructure opportunities, and 3 
organisational opportunities. In terms of barriers, there are 
a total of 3 tables including 9 technological barriers, 8 
organisational barriers, and 7 environmental barriers. The 
questionnaire of this research is based on the concept of 
individual sensemaking, adapted from Wang et al. [115]. 
This means the questionnaire will be sent to a group of 
experts, each of whom will provide individual evaluations, 
which will allow them to fully develop their interpretations 
of the blockchain as the underlying technology of 
blockchain-based games and potential opportunities and 
barriers resulting from the adoption in the company. 
Moreover, this individual approach can mitigate the 
polarisation effect and cognitive biases, which would often 
occur in traditional Delphi studies [116]. However, given 
the technical complexities and the preliminary stage of 
blockchain-based games, the questionnaire will be 
conducted in a face-to-face setting. The experts thus will 
be able to raise any questions that they may have when 
filling out the questionnaire. 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
70 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
Table 6. Criteria used for rating likelihood (L) for opportunities. 
Score Description Likelihood (L) 
1 Very Low 
Less than 1% chance. The opportunity is very unlikely to 
occur. 
2 Low 
Between 1-10% chance. The opportunity is unlikely to 
occur. 
3 Moderate 
Between 10-33% (1/3) chance. The opportunity may occur 
sometimes. 
4 High 
Between 33-67% (2/3) chance. The opportunity is 
expected to often occur. 
5 Very High 
More than 67% (2/3) chance. The opportunity is very likely 
to occur and will always occur. 
 
Table 7. Criteria used for rating impact (I) for opportunities. 
Score Description Impact (I) 
1 Very Low 
The opportunity will have a very minimal positive impact 
on the business. 
2 Low 
The opportunity will have a minor positive effect on the 
business. 
3 Moderate 
The opportunity may cause a considerable positive effect 
on the business. 
4 High 
The opportunity will cause a significant positive effect on 
the business. 
5 Very High 
The opportunity will cause an extensive and long-term 
positive effect on the business. 
 
Table 8. Criteria used for rating control (C) for opportunities. 
Score Description Control (C) 
1 Very Low 
The company is very unlikely to identify a strategy to seize 
and realise the opportunity and is unable to control the 
causes and consequences of the opportunity. 
2 Low 
The company is unlikely to identify a strategy to seize the 
opportunity with a low chance of realising the opportunity 
and controlling the causes and consequences of the 
opportunity. 
3 Moderate 
The company may be able to identify a strategy to seize the 
opportunity with a moderate chance of realising the 
opportunity and controlling the causes and consequences 
of the opportunity. 
4 High 
The company can identify a strategy to seize the 
opportunity with a high chance of realising the opportunity 
and controlling the causes and consequences of the 
opportunity. 
5 Very High 
The company has an effective strategy to seize and realise 
the opportunity with full control over the causes and 
consequences of the opportunity. 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 71 
Table 9. Criteria used for rating likelihood (L) for barriers (Adapted from Abdelgawad and Fayek [117]). 
Score Description Likelihood (L) 
1 Very Low Less than 1% chance. The barrier is very unlikely to occur. 
2 Low Between 1-10% chance. The barrier is unlikely to occur. 
3 Moderate 
Between 10-33% (1/3) chance. The barrier may occur 
sometimes. 
4 High 
Between 33-67% (2/3) chance. The barrier is expected to 
often occur. 
5 Very High 
More than 67% (2/3) chance. The barrier is very likely to 
occur and will always occur. 
 
Table 10. Criteria used for rating impact (I) for barriers. 
Score Description Impact (I) 
1 Very Low 
The barrier will have a very minimal negative impact on the 
business. 
2 Low 
The barrier will have a minor negative effect on the 
business. 
3 Moderate 
The barrier may cause a considerable negative effect on the 
business. 
4 High 
The barrier will cause a significant negative effect on the 
business. 
5 Very High 
The barrier will cause an extensive and long-term negative 
effect on the business. 
 
Table 11. Criteria used for rating control (C) for barriers (Adapted from Abdelgawad and Fayek [117]). 
Score Description Control (C) 
1 Very High 
The company has an effective strategy to detect or control 
the causes and consequences of the barrier. 
2 High 
The company can identify a response with a high chance of 
detecting or controlling the causes and consequences of the 
barrier. 
3 Moderate 
The company may be able to identify a strategy with a 
moderate chance of detecting or controlling the causes and 
consequences of the barrier. 
4 Low 
The company is unlikely to identify a strategy with a low 
chance of detecting or controlling the causes and 
consequences of the barrier. 
5 Very Low 
The company is very unlikely to identify a strategy capable 
of detecting or controlling the causes and consequences of 
the barrier. 
A semi-structured interview with the same group of 
experts will then be conducted after all of them have 
responded to the questionnaire. Unlike the individual 
format of how the questionnaire is conducted, the semi-
structured interview will be in a group format designed to 
last approximately 60 minutes. It is believed that the group 
interview, which often includes the sharing of ideas and 
insights, can provide a better representation and 
understanding of the issues [100]. Despite involving 
experts from many different roles and responsibilities, the 
interview in this research is believed to be effective 
because of the nature of the company, which is a flat 
organisational structure [118] with minimal hierarchical 
layers, and the culture of the company, which supports the 
involvement of employees in decision-making and 
encourages direct and open communication in the 
workplace, thereby making all opinions equally important. 
A reasonable balance can also be achieved because the 
interview will be set up in a way that each expert can share 
his opinion and give feedback on other persons’ 
viewpoints, and all participants will be consistently asked 
for their engagement in the interview. 
To further evaluate the opportunities and barriers, the 
concept of the FMEA will be adapted and applied in this 
research. The scores of Likelihood (L), Impact (I), and 
Control (C) of each opportunity and barrier from all the 
experts will be imported to Microsoft Excel for the 
calculation to find the mean value of Likelihood (LM), the 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
72 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
mean value of Impact (IM), and the mean value of Control 
(CM). After that, unlike the traditional FMEA method in 
which all three elements are considered equally important, 
the concept of AHP (i.e. priority vector) in which each 
relative weight is multiplied by the average of each 
respective FMEA element will be used for calculating the 
priority number (PN) by finding the sum of all the 
resulting values (see Fig. 15). It is believed that the 
improved method of PN calculation as demonstrated in 
this research would be able to better reflect the different 
influence of each element on the decisions related to the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in the company 
compared to the traditional FMEA method, as the group 
of experts’ AHP preferences based on their real-world 
knowledge and experience are used to build the relative 
scale measurement, which consequently is used to 
determine the relative weights required for the calculation. 
 
Priority Number (PN)= 
(LM x WL)+ (IM x WI)+ (CM x WC) 
 
where WL, WI, and WC are relative weights of  
LM,IM and CM, respectively. 
 
Fig. 15 Priority number calculation (Adapted from Aslani 
et al. [119]). 
The ranking of each opportunity and barrier based on 
the PN can be used to compare and prioritise all the 
opportunities and barriers. A certain factor, either an 
opportunity or a barrier, is considered more important if 
the value of its PN is higher compared to others. After all 
the opportunities and barriers have been prioritised by the 
ranking of PN, Pareto diagrams will be drawn to reveal the 
most critical opportunities and barriers, which will result 
in a proper display of the most significant factors that 
could facilitate (i.e. opportunities) or hinder (i.e. barriers) 
the adoption of blockchain-based games in the company. 
In the traditional FMEA method, which is a common 
risk analysis technique, a numerical value is assigned to 
each risk associated with the cause of a failure in three 
elements: Occurrence (O); Severity (S); and Detection (D). 
By multiplying these three elements together, the risk 
priority number (RPN) can be calculated. As a result, the 
risky elements can be targeted and prioritised based on the 
resulting RPNs. However, it can be seen that there are 
deviations in terms and definitions from the elements of 
the traditional FMEA used in this research as follows: 
• Likelihood (L) is comparable to Occurrence (O) 
from the traditional FMEA method; 
• Impact (I) is comparable to Severity (S) from the 
traditional FMEA method; 
• Control (C) is comparable to Detection (D) from 
the traditional FMEA method; and 
• Priority Number (PN) is comparable to Risk 
Priority Number (RPN) from the traditional FMEA 
method. 
It is believed that these deviations are necessary to be 
used in this research due to the following 2 reasons: 
1. This research does not only study the barriers 
related to the adoption of blockchain-based games in the 
company but also the opportunities. Thus, it is important 
to have common terms (i.e. Likelihood (L), Impact (I), 
Control (C), and Priority Number (PN)) that can be used 
throughout all the steps of the research for both 
opportunities and barriers. The method of how each 
opportunity is assessed in this research using FMEA is also 
supported by White [109] where the potential applications 
of blockchain technology are prioritised by using the 
concept of FMEA. 
2. The change from Detection (D) to Control (C) 
could be considered a major shift in the definition. 
However, the opportunities and barriers in this research, 
which are identified through the study of the adoption of 
blockchain-based games in the company, could not be 
measured in the same way as how Detection (D) is defined 
in the traditional FMEA. Moreover, it is argued by 
Abdelgawad and Fayek [117] that the traditional definition 
of Detection (D) is ambiguous and difficult to understand. 
They thus define this element as “the ability of the 
company to come up with a risk response strategy to 
detect and control the root causes and consequences of 
the risk event”. 
 
3.4. Response to Opportunities and Barriers 
 
Once the critical opportunities and barriers have 
been identified and prioritised, a set of possible strategies 
on how the company can respond to those factors should 
be developed. The reason is that the strategies not only 
can help address the barriers to the adoption and mitigate 
the risks, but also can act as guidance on how the company 
could effectively implement blockchain-based games and, 
as a result, the potential benefits can be realised from the 
adoption. The strategies based on the literature review and 
the feedback from the semi-structured interview with the 
group of experts will be proposed. The TOWS matrix will 
be used as a framework for formulating strategies in 
response to those critical opportunities and barriers. 
Moreover, to help the company make informed decisions 
about the adoption of blockchain-based games, a roadmap 
which is divided into short-, medium-, and long-term 
action plans will also be proposed. Similar to the 
identification process of opportunities and barriers, it is 
expected that the relevant studies are limited. Therefore, 
the experts’ feedback from the semi-structured interview 
will also be used to fill the literature gap. 
 
4. Result and Analysis 
 
4.1. Background of the Company and Experts 
 
The company is a leading online gaming company 
and has one of its offices located in Thailand. The 
company, since its inception, has been generating revenue 
from a common business model called F2P. The company 
can be considered a traditional online gaming company 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 73 
because it has been mainly relying on the F2P model. 
Moreover, the company has not integrated blockchain 
technology into its products or systems. To understand 
the reason behind why this is the case, a group of experts 
are invited to participate in the questionnaire and the semi-
structured interview. The target participants of this 
research are in senior or managerial positions in the 
company with at least 5 years of experience in the field. 
They thus can be considered experts in the online gaming 
industry because of their wealth of knowledge and 
experience. The experts are deliberately selected so that 
this research would have representatives from many 
different roles and responsibilities of the company. They 
are also selected only if they have sufficient knowledge of 
blockchain technology and have an understanding of the 
utilisation of blockchain in the online gaming industry. In 
total, 7 experts (see Table 12) are invited, and all of them 
agree to participate in the questionnaire and the semi-
structured interview. 
Table 12. Summary of experts. 
Expert 
Organisational 
Role/Responsibility 
Location 
1 
Regional Product Manager 
(Mobile)  
Thailand 
2 
Senior Strategic Operations 
(Mobile) 
Thailand 
3 
Senior Marketing Team Lead 
(PC) 
Thailand 
4 Product Manager (Mobile) Thailand 
5 
Senior Marketing Specialist 
(Mobile) 
Thailand 
6 
Senior Product Manager 
(Mobile) 
Thailand 
7 Revenue Team Lead (Mobile) Thailand 
 
4.2. Demonstration of Research Findings 
 
4.2.1. Identification and classification of opportunities 
and barriers 
 
The literature is used as the primary source to identify 
both opportunities and barriers. There are, however, 6 
additional factors extracted during the identification 
process as follows:  
3 Opportunities are later categorised in the 
organisational dimension under the benefits framework: 
• Facilitation of business learning. To capitalise on the 
emergence of blockchain technology, the development of 
requisite knowledge and skills (e.g. foundational 
technology, distributed ledger technology, laws and 
regulations, markets and economics, industrial design, and 
blockchain standards [120]) is needed for the adoption. 
Thus, employees have an opportunity to develop new skill 
sets and competencies by adopting blockchain-based 
games in the organisation.  
• Support for organisational changes. To realise the 
benefits of technology adoption, organisations need to 
embrace changes and have a collaborative environment 
[121].  
• Employee engagement. Native cryptocurrencies of 
blockchain-based games adopted by the company can be 
used to perform a similar function as stock options, which 
could be considered monetary incentives affecting 
employees’ engagement [122]. 
2 Barriers, which later are categorised in the 
environmental dimension under the TOE framework: 
• Lack of policy framework. One of the well-known 
use cases of Blockchain is in financial services [123], [124]. 
A guideline for blockchain technology adoption in 
financial services has been released by the Bank of 
Thailand [125]. However, there is no regulatory 
framework from the government to promote blockchain 
technology in the online gaming industry. 
• Lack of investment incentives. The public sector in 
Thailand has realised the potential impact of blockchain 
technology and accepted that it is one of the emerging 
megatrends [3]. Although it is also reported that a plan for 
investment incentives (e.g. corporate income tax 
exemptions) is being considered by the Board of 
Investment of Thailand through “Category 5.10 
Development of Software, Digital Platform or Digital 
Content” to attract foreign investors [126], there is still a 
lack of incentives from the government for online gaming 
companies to adopt blockchain as the underlying 
technology of online games. 
1 Barrier, which later is categorised in the 
technological dimension under the TOE framework: 
• Absence of successful development and implementation of 
blockchain-based games in Thailand. Most of the current well-
known developers who operate blockchain-based games 
are not from Thailand, and most projects in the Thai 
market are still in the early stage or are not developed by 
major game developers in the industry. Thus, there are no 
practical examples to be used as guidance for the 
development and implementation of blockchain-based 
games in Thailand for the company. As a result, there is a 
total of 23 opportunities (see Table 13) and 24 barriers (see 
Table 14) identified in this research. 
 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
74 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
Table 13. Classification of opportunities under the benefits framework. 
 
Dimension Opportunity Explanation 
Operational 
Improved payment process Blockchain enables a secure and faster payment method 
between developers and players. 
Prevention of value leakage There is a reduction in fraud and lost revenue from duplicated 
virtual assets, hacking, stealing, and economic activities on 
grey markets. 
Sever cost reduction Game server costs can be reduced by using P2P networks. 
Lower transaction costs Transaction costs can be reduced as intermediaries are 
removed. 
Managerial 
Improved credibility, accountability, and 
behaviour within the gaming ecosystem 
The gaming community and ecosystem can be improved, as all 
activities are recorded on the blockchain and visible to 
everyone. 
Ownership management of digital assets Trading features are part of blockchain by nature, in contrast 
to traditional games where developers need to create 
additional features and databases for this purpose. 
Better unit economics Customer lifetime value and acquisition costs can be improved 
by revenue-sharing models between developers and players. 
Strategic 
Increased sense of ownership NFTs enabled by smart contracts and blockchain technology 
help increase a sense of ownership and control over digital 
assets for players. 
New business models The P2E model can be a new business model or revenue 
stream for online gaming companies. 
Improved customer feedback Incentive mechanisms can encourage constructive feedback 
from players. 
Digital scarcity The concept of verifiable scarcity and limited supply can 
increase the desirability of digital assets. 
Customer co-creation Players are allowed to be involved in governance or voting 
features on some aspects of the game on a decentralised 
network; NFTs facilitate user-generated content of the game; 
value is exchanged and transferred through tokens. 
Improved trust Trust between developers and players can be established by 
smart contracts. 
New reward systems for players The P2E model can provide financial incentives for players to 
play the games. 
Global user base Blockchain networks provide an opportunity for expanding 
the user base globally. 
Privacy protection Data privacy of players can be protected by self-sovereign 
identity. 
Infrastructure 
Transparency Data stored on the blockchain is transparent and verifiable. 
Cross-chain infrastructure There is a potential for cross-platform compatibility for digital 
assets. 
Improved data security Blockchain helps improve the security of data or virtual assets, 
as they are stored on a distributed ledger system. 
Defence against cyberattacks Cyberattacks such as DDoS attacks can be prevented by the 
P2P architecture. 
Organisational 
Facilitation of business learning Employees' skills are broadened by adopting blockchain-based 
games in the organisation. 
Support for organisational changes Organisational structures and processes are needed to be 
changed; higher collaboration and coordination between 
different business units. 
Employee engagement Employees have a chance to own native cryptocurrencies of 
blockchain-based games, which can function as a form of 
incentives and increase engagement. 
 
 
 
 
.
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 75 
Table 14. Classification of barriers under the TOE framework. 
 
Dimension  Barrier Explanation 
Technological 
Limitations of blockchain technology Blockchain trilemma (i.e. scalability, security, decentralisation) 
is not yet to be solved, causing issues such as high and volatile 
transaction fees, slow network speed, and security concerns. 
Sustainability issues of blockchain-based 
games 
There are challenges in building and sustaining economies 
within blockchain-based games. 
Lack of technological knowledge to 
distinguish different blockchain networks 
There are many blockchain networks in the market; there are 
challenges in deciding which network to rely on. 
Blockchain as the underlying technology of 
online games is still questionable 
It is still uncertain whether blockchain technology will be an 
integrated part of the online gaming industry. 
Traditional games still have an advantage over 
blockchain-based games 
The maturity of technology required for developing traditional 
games can provide better graphics and gameplay quality 
compared to blockchain-based games. 
Absence of successful development and 
implementation of blockchain-based games in 
Thailand 
Blockchain is new to the gaming industry; there are no best 
practices for blockchain-based games' development and 
implementation in the market. 
Blockchain technology complexity The lack of stable development tools, interoperability, and 
standardisation of blockchain technology prevents the 
adoption of blockchain-based games. 
Poor user experience The use of blockchain could be a hindrance to the adoption of 
blockchain-based games (e.g. lack of on/off ramps for players 
to conveniently convert between fiat money and 
cryptocurrencies). 
Data storage issues Lack of knowledge on which data in the gaming environment 
should be stored on the blockchain. 
Organisational 
Uncertain ROI There is a risk for investors in terms of stability, predictability, 
and growth of blockchain-based games. 
High switching costs There are high switching costs associated with integrating 
blockchain technology into existing games or changing the 
business model. 
Lack of proper resources and capabilities The adoption of blockchain-based games poses challenges in 
terms of financial resources, technical experts, etc. 
Business process transformation The adoption of blockchain-based games would introduce 
new business models; organisational changes will happen.  
New governance models In contrast to the centralised structure of traditional games, 
governance tokens provide holders with voting power in some 
aspects of blockchain-based games; the concept of DAOs or 
decentralised decision-making in the gaming ecosystem is still 
questionable. 
Current business models are still profitable Changes are not necessary, as the F2P business model is still 
profitable. 
Lack of full control over the content Blockchain is immutable; data stored on the blockchain is 
difficult to be censored. 
Lack of understanding by top management Managers are not aware of how blockchain-based games work 
or the potential benefits they could bring to the organisation. 
Environmental 
Lack of education or understanding of 
blockchain-based games 
There are common misconceptions that the concept of 
blockchain-based games is a Ponzi scheme or scam. 
Low social acceptance of blockchain-based 
games 
Blockchain-based games are not yet fully accepted by the 
general public; opportunities for players to use blockchain and 
cryptocurrencies are still limited; blockchain gaming is a niche 
market. 
Regulatory uncertainty and legal 
considerations 
It is uncertain how to deal with know-your-customer (KYC) 
and anti-money laundering (AML) regulations required for 
developing blockchain-based games; there are issues related to 
the intellectual property of NFTs and tax treatment for players 
and developers. 
Public relations and the possibility of 
community backlash 
There is a possibility that changing the value proposition 
would create a negative sentiment. 
Environmental impact of blockchain 
technology 
PoW blockchains require significant energy usage and have a 
negative impact on the environment. 
Lack of policy framework There is no regulatory framework from the government to 
promote blockchain technology in the online gaming industry. 
Lack of investment incentives There is a lack of incentives from the government for online 
gaming companies to adopt blockchain-based games. 
 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
76 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
4.2.2. Evaluation and classification of opportunities and 
barriers 
 
The evaluation process is separated into 4 parts: 1) 
application of FMEA; 2) application of AHP; 3) 
calculation of priority number; and 4) Pareto analysis, all 
of which will be discussed in turn. 
 
4.2.2.1. Application of FMEA 
 
To apply the FMEA method, all the identified 
opportunities and barriers are used to create a 5-point 
Likert scale questionnaire, which is distributed to a group 
of experts to assign a score ranging from 1 to 5 to each 
opportunity and barrier in three elements: Likelihood (L), 
Impact (I), and Control (C). The criteria used for scoring 
each factor and the description for both opportunities and 
barriers are shown in Table 6 – Table 11. Most of the 
experts take approximately 20-30 minutes to fill out the 
questionnaire. All the responses of each factor from the 
experts are then transferred to Microsoft Excel to find the 
mean values of Likelihood (LM), Impact (IM), and Control 
(CM), which can be obtained by calculating the averages of 
Likelihood (L), Impact (I), and Control (C), respectively. 
4.2.2.2. Application of AHP 
 
The RPN in the traditional FMEA method is obtained 
by multiplying all three elements together. This method is 
fairly straightforward and simple to understand; however; 
some issues often occur with this approach to calculating 
the RPN value to define the most critical factors for which 
corrective actions are immediately needed. For example, 
as the same weight for all three elements is considered in 
the traditional FMEA method, there are drawbacks in the 
way in which the RPN is calculated and in the way in 
which the results are interpreted because the effect of each 
element is not the same [127]. As a result, the priorities for 
developing corrective actions could be wrong. The AHP 
is, therefore, adapted and used in this part of the research 
to make the traditional FMEA method a more suitable 
decision-making tool by assigning a relative weight to each 
element of the FMEA before being used for the 
calculation of priority number (PN). The AHP in this 
research consists of 4 steps as follows: 
 
1) Design of a Hierarchy for the Problem 
 
The objective of applying the AHP is to determine the 
relative weights of FMEA elements, each of which is 
expected to have a different effect on the decisions to 
adopt blockchain-based games in the company. All three 
elements of FMEA are the criteria considered for the 
design of the AHP. 
 
2) Construction of a Pairwise Comparison Matrix 
 
The semi-structured interview with the group of 
experts is used for understanding the group preferences in 
terms of which element in the FMEA is considered more 
important and how each element contributes to the 
decisions related to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in the company. The method of aggregating experts’ 
preferences in this research is adapted from Hummel et al. 
[98]. This means the experts are individually asked to make 
pairwise comparisons of the FMEA elements by verbally 
assigning a score from 1 to 9 (see Table 4). After that, the 
geometric mean is used to calculate a group score on each 
pairwise comparison. A relative scale measurement (see 
Fig. 16) is then constructed based on the group scores, 
which can be interpreted as follows: 
• Impact (I) is moderately more important than 
Likelihood (L) (score 3); 
• Impact (I) is strongly more important than 
Control (L) (score 5); and 
• Likelihood (L) and Control (C) are equally 
important (score 1). 
 
 
 
Fig. 16. AHP preferences of the group of experts. 
The group preferences of the FMEA elements are used 
for creating a pairwise comparison matrix, as shown in 
Table 15. 
 
Table 15. Pairwise comparison matrix. 
Element I L C 
I 1.0000 3.0000 5.0000 
L 0.3333 1.0000 1.0000 
C 0.2000 1.0000 1.0000 
 
3) Derivation of Priorities 
 
There are 3 steps of the “mean of normalised values” 
approach to finding a priority vector of a pairwise 
comparison matrix as follows: 
i. Based on the pairwise comparison matrix (see 
Table 15), the first step is to find the sum of all the 
elements of the columns, as shown in Table 16. 
 
Table 16. Sum of columns. 
Element I L C 
I 1.0000 3.0000 5.0000 
L 0.3333 1.0000 1.0000 
C 0.2000 1.0000 1.0000 
Total 1.5333 5.0000 7.0000 
 
ii. The next step is the normalisation of the columns. 
This can be done by dividing each element of the matrix 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 77 
by its respective sum of the columns, as shown in Table 
17 and Table 18. 
 
Table 17. Normalisation of columns (1). 
Element I L C 
I 
1.0000
1.5333
 
3.0000
5.0000
 
5.0000
7.0000
 
L 
0.3333
1.5333
 
1.0000
5.0000
 
1.0000
7.0000
 
C 
0.2000
1.5333
 
1.0000
5.0000
 
1.0000
7.0000
 
 
Table 18. Normalisation of columns (2). 
Element I L C 
I 0.6522 0.6000 0.7143 
L 0.2174 0.2000 0.1429 
C 0.1304 0.2000 0.1429 
Total 1.0000 1.0000 1.0000 
 
iii. The calculation of the mean of each row is the last 
step required for deriving the priority vector (see Table 19), 
which can be done as follows: 
 
Table 19. Priority vector calculation. 
Element I L C 
Priority 
Vector 
I 0.6522 0.6000 0.7143 0.6555 
L 0.2174 0.2000 0.1429 0.1867 
C 0.1304 0.2000 0.1429 0.1578 
 
4) Logical Consistency 
 
Following the calculation method of the consistency 
ratio (CR) in Section 2.5.4, the CR is 0.0252 (the principal 
eigenvalue (λmax) is 3.0292 and the consistency index (CI) 
is 0.0146). As the CR value is less than 0.1, the judgements 
can be considered consistent and acceptable. 
 
4.2.2.3. Calculation of PN 
 
From the AHP calculation of the priority vector, the 
relative weights are WL =0.1867,  WI =0.6555, and 
WC=0.1578. The PN for each opportunity and barrier is 
then can be calculated (see Fig. 15). The results are shown 
in Table 20 – Table 27. 
Table 20. Operational opportunities ranked in descending 
order of PN. 
 
Operational Opportunity PN 
Improved payment process 3.52 
Lower transaction costs 3.49 
Prevention of value leakage 3.43 
Sever cost reduction 3.41 
 
Table 21. Managerial opportunities ranked in descending 
order of PN. 
Managerial Opportunity PN 
Better unit economics 4.08 
Ownership management of digital assets 3.65 
Improved credibility, accountability, and 
behaviour within the gaming ecosystem 
2.42 
 
Table 22. Strategic opportunities ranked in descending 
order of PN. 
Strategic Opportunity PN 
Increased sense of ownership 4.50 
Customer co-creation 4.50 
New reward systems for players 4.46 
Global user base 4.34 
Digital scarcity 4.05 
New business models 3.98 
Improved customer feedback 3.50 
Improved trust 3.41 
Privacy protection 2.78 
 
Table 23. Infrastructure opportunities ranked in 
descending order of PN. 
Infrastructure Opportunity PN 
Improved data security 4.10 
Transparency 4.08 
Defence against cyberattacks 4.07 
Cross-chain infrastructure 3.83 
 
Table 24. Organisational opportunities ranked in 
descending order of PN. 
Organisational Opportunity PN 
Employee engagement 4.17 
Facilitation of business learning 3.88 
Support for organisational changes 3.53 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
78 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
Table 25. Technological barriers ranked in descending 
order of PN. 
Technological Barrier PN 
Poor user experience 4.30 
Blockchain technology complexity 4.28 
Sustainability issues of blockchain-based 
games 
4.20 
Traditional games still have an advantage 
over blockchain-based games 
3.99 
Lack of technological knowledge to 
distinguish different blockchain networks 
3.93 
Absence of successful development and 
implementation of blockchain-based 
games in Thailand 
3.69 
Limitations of blockchain technology 3.65 
Data storage issues 2.71 
Blockchain as the underlying technology 
of online games is still questionable 
2.59 
 
Table 26. Organisational barriers ranked in descending 
order of PN. 
Organisational Barrier PN 
Uncertain ROI 4.35 
Current business models are still profitable 4.29 
Lack of understanding by top 
management 
3.95 
High switching costs 3.81 
New governance models 3.77 
Lack of proper resources and capabilities 3.24 
Lack of full control over the content 3.01 
Business process transformation 2.48 
 
Table 27. Environmental barriers ranked in descending 
order of PN. 
Environmental Barrier PN 
Regulatory uncertainty and legal 
considerations 
4.69 
Lack of education or understanding of 
blockchain-based games 
4.37 
Low social acceptance of blockchain-
based games 
3.99 
Public relations and the possibility of 
community backlash 
3.91 
Lack of policy framework 3.47 
Lack of investment incentives 3.07 
Environmental impact of blockchain 
technology 
2.93 
 
PNs can be used to prioritise the factors related to the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in the company and 
determine which one is more critical when compared to 
others. Although the AHP is used in this research to 
determine the relative weights of each element of the 
FMEA, the relationship between each factor in the same 
dimension and the relative weights of different 
dimensions (i.e. operational, managerial, strategic, 
infrastructure, and organisational dimensions for 
opportunities; technological, organisational, and 
environmental dimensions for barriers) on their effects 
related to the adoption of blockchain-based games in the 
company are not studied in this research. Thus, the 
opportunity and barrier factors are ranked in descending 
order of PN only in the dimension they belong to, and 
each dimension is independent of another.  
In terms of opportunities, assuming that all the factors 
have the same weight, it can be found that infrastructure 
opportunities (average PN = 4.02) are ranked highest by 
PN, followed by strategic opportunities (average PN = 
3.95), organisational opportunities (average PN = 3.86), 
operational opportunities (average PN = 3.46), and 
managerial opportunities (average PN = 3.38), 
respectively. Both of the highest-ranked opportunities by  
PN are from the strategic dimension: increased sense of 
ownership (PN = 4.50); and customer co-creation (PN = 
4.50).  
In terms of barriers, assuming that all the factors have 
the same weight, it can be found that environmental 
barriers (average PN = 3.78) are ranked highest by PN, 
followed by technological barriers (average PN = 3.70) 
and organisational barriers (average PN = 3.61), 
respectively. The highest-ranked barrier by PN is from the 
environmental dimension: regulatory uncertainty and legal 
considerations (PN = 4.69). 
By doing this, it is believed that the study of the 
opportunities and barriers in this research would be more 
systematic based on robust academic frameworks (i.e. the 
benefits framework and the TOE framework) and that all 
the critical opportunities and barriers can be easier to 
understand and prioritised, resulting in a better 
representation of which aspects of the company in which 
the action plans are immediately needed in order to 
promote the adoption of blockchain-based games. The 
opportunities with higher PNs are expected to occur more 
often, have a more positive impact on the business, and 
the opportunity event is more manageable by the company 
when adopting blockchain-based games. The barriers with 
higher PNs are expected to occur more often, have a more 
negative impact on the business, and the risk event is more 
difficult to be controlled by the company when adopting 
blockchain-based games. 
 
4.2.2.4. Pareto analysis  
 
This part of the research is to apply the Pareto 
principle to each category of opportunities and barriers 
after the FMEA and AHP techniques have been used to 
calculate the PNs. By the use of a Pareto diagram in each 
category, the critical opportunities and barriers can be 
revealed, thus representing the most significant factors 
needed to be prioritised. The following 4 steps are used in 
this research for the Pareto analysis: 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 79 
1. Calculate the PN% of all factors in their 
respective dimensions; 
2. Calculate the cumulative PN% of all factors in 
their respective dimensions; 
3. Draw a Pareto diagram for each dimension to 
determine critical factors (i.e. 20% of the factors with the 
highest PN% should account for 80% of the cumulative 
PN% in each category); and 
4. If the 80/20 rule cannot be applied, the critical 
factors are all those that reach the cumulative PN% of 80% 
[128]. 
After applying the Pareto diagrams for each 
dimension of opportunities and barriers, it is found that 
there is no dimension in which 20% of the factors with 
the highest PN% account for 80% of the cumulative PN%. 
As a result, all the factors that reach 80% of the cumulative 
PN% of 80% are used to determine the critical factors. 
Table 28 summarises all 21 critical opportunities using the 
benefits framework: 4 operational opportunities, 3 
managerial opportunities, 7 strategic opportunities,  
4 infrastructure opportunities, and 3 organisational 
opportunities. Table 29 summarises all 19 critical barriers 
using the TOE framework: 7 technological barriers, 6 
organisational barriers, and 6 environmental barriers. 
 
 
 
 
Table 28. Critical opportunities under the benefits framework. 
Dimension Opportunity 
Operational (OP) 
Improved payment process (OPO1) 
Lower transaction costs (OPO2) 
Prevention of value leakage (OPO3) 
Sever cost reduction (OPO4) 
Managerial (M) 
Better unit economics (MO1) 
Ownership management of digital assets (MO2) 
Improved credibility, accountability, and behaviour within the gaming 
ecosystem (MO3) 
Strategic (S) 
Increased sense of ownership (SO1) 
Customer co-creation (SO2) 
New reward systems for players (SO3) 
Global user base (SO4) 
Digital scarcity (SO5) 
New business models (SO6) 
Improved customer feedback (SO7) 
Infrastructure (I) 
Improved data security (IO1) 
Transparency (IO2) 
Defence against cyberattacks (IO3) 
Cross-chain infrastructure (IO4) 
Organisational (OR) 
Employee engagement (ORO1) 
Facilitation of business learning (ORO2) 
Support for organisational changes (ORO3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
80 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
 
Table 29. Critical barriers under the TOE framework. 
Dimension Barrier 
Technological (T) 
Poor user experience (TB1) 
Blockchain technology complexity (TB2) 
Sustainability issues of blockchain-based games (TB3) 
Traditional games still have an advantage over blockchain-based games 
(TB4) 
Lack of technological knowledge to distinguish different blockchain 
networks (TB5) 
Absence of successful development and implementation of blockchain-
based games in Thailand (TB6) 
Limitations of blockchain technology (TB7) 
Organisational (OR) 
Uncertain ROI (ORB1) 
Current business models are still profitable (ORB2) 
Lack of understanding by top management (ORB3) 
High switching costs (ORB4) 
New governance models (ORB5) 
Lack of proper resources and capabilities (ORB6) 
Environmental (E) 
Regulatory uncertainty and legal considerations (EB1) 
Lack of education or understanding of blockchain-based games (EB2) 
Low social acceptance of blockchain-based games (EB3) 
Public relations and the possibility of community backlash (EB4) 
Lack of policy framework (EB5) 
Lack of investment incentives (EB6) 
4.3. Response to Opportunities and Barriers 
 
In this section, to respond to the critical opportunities 
and barriers, the TOWS matrix is a strategic planning tool 
used for formulating strategies by matching external 
factors (i.e. opportunities and threats) with internal factors 
(i.e. strengths and weaknesses). It is found that the internal 
factors of the company include 8 internal strengths: 1) in-
depth knowledge and understanding of online gaming 
business, 2) strong reputation in its main regions, 3) 
research and development (R&D) and technological 
capabilities, 4) relationship with local authorities, 5) 
partnership and collaboration with global game studios, 6) 
large user base in its main regions, 7) resilient business and 
ability to adapt quickly, and 8) ability to raise capital; and 
1 internal weakness: limited operating history of 
publishing games globally. All these 9 internal factors (i.e. 
8 internal strengths and 1 internal weakness) are added to 
the 21 critical opportunities (Table 28) and the 19 critical 
barriers (see Table 29) to give a comprehensive view of all 
the factors affecting the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in the company required for conducting the SWOT 
analysis, which consequently is used as a basis for 
formulating strategies based on the TOWS matrix.  
 
 
 
Table 30 shows the SWOT analysis for the adoption 
of blockchain-based games in the company, including 8 
strengths (i.e. 8 internal strengths), 6 weaknesses (i.e. 1 
internal weakness, 1 technological barrier, and 4 
organisational opportunity), 21 opportunities (i.e. 4 
operational opportunities, 3 managerial opportunities, 7 
strategic opportunities, 4 infrastructure opportunities, and 
3 organisational opportunities), and 14 threats (i.e. 6 
technological barriers, 2 organisational barriers, and 6 
environmental barriers). 
 
4.3.1. Strategies 
 
The company’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, 
and threats in the context of the adoption of blockchain-
based games are first considered. After that, possible 
strategies are determined based on the TOWS matrix by 
matching external factors with internal factors. The 
proposed possible strategies for the company to seize the 
critical opportunities and address the critical barriers, 
which include 7 SO, 12 ST, 5 WO, and 1 WT strategies as 
follows: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 81 
Table 30. SWOT analysis for the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
sI
n
te
rn
a
l 
F
a
ct
o
rs
 
Strengths 
(S) 
S1 In-depth knowledge and understanding of the online gaming business 
S2 Strong reputation in its main regions 
S3 Research and development (R&D) and technological capabilities 
S4 Relationship with local authorities 
S5 Partnership and collaboration with global game studios 
S6 Large user base in its main regions 
S7 Resilient business and ability to adapt quickly 
S8 Ability to raise capital 
Weaknesses 
(W) 
W1 Limited operating history of publishing games globally 
W2 
Lack of technological knowledge to distinguish different blockchain networks 
(TB5) 
W3 Lack of understanding by top management (ORB3) 
W4 High switching costs (ORB4) 
W5 Current business models are still profitable (ORB2) 
W6 Lack of proper resources and capabilities (ORB6) 
E
x
te
rn
a
l 
F
a
c
to
rs
 
Opportunities 
(O) 
O1 Improved payment process (OPO1) 
O2 Lower transaction costs (OPO2) 
O3 Prevention of value leakage (OPO3) 
O4 Sever cost reduction (OPO4) 
O5 Better unit economics (MO1) 
O6 Ownership management of digital assets (MO2) 
O7 
Improved credibility, accountability, and behaviour within the gaming ecosystem 
(MO3) 
O8 Increased sense of ownership (SO1) 
O9 Customer co-creation (SO2) 
O10 New reward systems for players (SO3) 
O11 Global user base (SO4) 
O12 Digital scarcity (SO5) 
O13 New business models (SO6) 
O14 Improved customer feedback (SO7) 
O15 Improved data security (IO1) 
O16 Transparency (IO2) 
O17 Defence against cyberattacks (IO3) 
O18 Cross-chain infrastructure (IO4) 
O19 Employee engagement (ORO1) 
O20 Facilitation of business learning (ORO2) 
O21 Support for organisational changes (ORO3) 
Threats 
(T) 
T1 Poor user experience (TB1) 
T2 Blockchain technology complexity (TB2) 
T3 Sustainability issues of blockchain-based games (TB3) 
T4 Traditional games still have an advantage over blockchain-based games (TB4) 
T5 
Absence of successful development and implementation of blockchain-based 
games in Thailand (TB6) 
T6 Limitations of blockchain technology (TB7) 
T7 Uncertain ROI (ORB1) 
T8 New governance models (ORB5) 
T9 Regulatory uncertainty and legal considerations (EB1) 
T10 Lack of education or understanding of blockchain-based games (EB2) 
T11 Low social acceptance of blockchain-based games (EB3) 
T12 Public relations and the possibility of community backlash (EB4) 
T13 Lack of policy framework (EB5) 
T14 Lack of investment incentives (EB6) 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
82 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
4.3.1.1. SO strategies 
 
There are 7 SO strategies as follows: 
 
1. O1 O2 S6 (see Table 31) 
 
Table 31. SO strategies (1). 
Opportunities (O) 
O1 Improved payment process (OPO1) 
O2 Lower transaction costs (OPO2) 
Strengths (S) 
S6 Large user base in its main regions 
 
In terms of financial processes, using blockchain 
technology and P2P networks as the payment system for 
blockchain-based games would allow the company to be 
able to reduce costs, have a faster settlement, and more 
secured payment across different regions in which it 
operates, as it would be relying on a P2P network and 
there would be no intermediaries [129]. 
 
2. O8 O9 O10 O12 O18 S1 S6 (see Table 32) 
 
Table 32. SO strategies (2). 
Opportunities (O) 
O8 Increased sense of ownership (SO1) 
O9 Customer co-creation (SO2) 
O10 New reward systems for players (SO3) 
O12 Digital scarcity (SO5) 
O18 Cross-chain infrastructure (IO4) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S6 Large user base in its main regions 
 
A new reward system for players could be introduced 
by the P2E model, which would allow for new interaction 
and collaboration between the company and its players. As 
a result, customer co-creation activities [130] can be 
created and enhanced, as all the stakeholders in the 
ecosystem including both developers and players could 
turn into the creators of value. The concept of a sense of 
ownership and scarcity also could be created by the 
properties of NFTs [131]. NFTs also come with a 
potential for cross-chain compatibility, which will give a 
whole new experience for players interacting with the 
virtual worlds. An expert stated, “The P2E model and 
NFTs definitely would be an introduction of new gaming 
experiences to our players and change how our digital 
content is currently being provided.” With its online game 
business knowledge, the company should deploy features 
enabled by blockchain-based games to enhance the service 
offerings that are currently being provided to its players. 
 
3. O3 O6 O15 O17 S1 S3 (See Table 33) 
 
Table 33. SO strategies (3). 
Opportunities (O) 
O3 Prevention of value leakage (OPO3) 
O6 
Ownership management of digital assets 
(MO2) 
O15 Improved data security (IO1) 
O17 Defence against cyberattacks (IO3) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
 
By incorporating blockchain technology (using R&D 
and technological capabilities) into the online gaming 
business (using the business expertise) of the company, it 
is believed that blockchain can provide an additional layer 
of security for digital assets, prevent illegal activities in 
black markets, and reduce illegal copies of digital assets. 
Blockchain is more resilient to cyberattacks compared to 
traditional servers [132]. Moreover, smart contracts help 
ensure and verify transactions when digital assets are 
traded [133]. 
 
4. O16 S1 S2 (See Table 34) 
 
Table 34. SO strategies (4). 
Opportunities (O) 
O16 Transparency (IO2) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S2 Strong reputation in its main regions 
 
With blockchain technology, the distribution and 
management of digital assets will be transparent and 
verifiable. An expert stated, “We can use blockchain to 
introduce the tokenisation of digital assets, which will 
allow them to be tracked and traced by everyone. This 
could be considered an add-on feature to online games 
[enabled by blockchain technology].” Moreover, the data 
stored on the blockchain and smart contracts can be used 
to solve the transparency and trust issues of loot boxes 
[134], which are used by game developers as one of the 
main monetisation methods. There also has been 
increased scrutiny from customers and regulators and a 
request for transparency [135], [136]. The reputation of 
the company can be enhanced as a result of increased 
transparency, which is achievable by incorporating 
blockchain technology into its online gaming business. 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 83 
5. O20 O21 S3 S7 (See Table 35) 
 
Table 35. SO strategies (5). 
Opportunities (O) 
O20 Facilitation of business learning (ORO2) 
O21 Support for organisational changes (ORO3) 
Strengths (S) 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
S7 Resilient business and ability to adapt quickly 
 
The company can improve business learning by 
adopting blockchain-based games and new technology in 
the organisation. The company’s technological capabilities 
and employees’ skills will be enhanced. This is also aligned 
with the concept of dynamic capabilities [137], which is 
defined as the company’s ability to seek and integrate new 
competencies and adapt its resources to rapidly address 
external changes. 
 
6. O14 O19 S1 S6 (See Table 36) 
 
Table 36. SO strategies (6). 
Opportunities (O) 
O14 Improved customer feedback (SO7) 
O19 Employee engagement (ORO1) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S6 Large user base in its main regions 
 
The tokenisation model introduced by blockchain-
based games can be used to improve engagement not only 
for internal stakeholders (e.g. employees) but also for 
external stakeholders (e.g. players and investors). The 
reason is that financial incentives can be provided by using 
native tokens of blockchain-based games. All the experts 
agreed that there is a high chance that the idea of using 
native tokens as incentives for employees could increase 
employee engagement and positively affect the online 
gaming business processes of the company. By leveraging 
the company’s existing user base, special incentive 
mechanisms also can be developed to improve customers’ 
feedback and behaviour on the platforms [138].  
 
7. O7 S1 S6 (See Table 37) 
 
Table 37. SO strategies (7). 
Opportunities (O) 
O7 
Improved credibility, accountability, and 
behaviour within the gaming ecosystem (MO3) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S6 Large user base in its main regions 
Online games are the place in which many players 
with diverse backgrounds meet virtually. As data (e.g. 
players’ interactions, history, and transaction records) is 
stored in a public and immutable manner on the 
blockchain, players are encouraged to have good 
behaviour in the community [138]. The blockchain 
combined with the company’s knowledge of community 
management could be used to foster a good gaming 
ecosystem. 
 
4.3.1.2. ST strategies 
 
There are 12 ST strategies as follows: 
 
1. T1 S1 S3 S5 (See Table 38) 
 
Table 38. ST strategies (1). 
Threats (T) 
T1 Poor user experience (TB1) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
S5 
Partnership and collaboration with global game 
studios 
 
It is uncommon for players to fully enjoy the full 
features of blockchain-based games without necessary 
activities such as interacting with a cryptocurrency 
exchange, setting up a wallet, swapping tokens, and 
transferring tokens [139]. As a result, poor user experience 
has been one of the main barriers to the adoption of 
blockchain-based games. The company could mitigate this 
challenge by collaborating with leading developers in the 
industry to develop a solution that would allow players to 
participate in the P2E ecosystem without the need for 
them to directly interact with the blockchain and that is 
easy for them to understand. This approach has been used 
by major game developers such as Netmarble, which is in 
a strategic partnership with Klaytn Foundation in 
developing the MARBLEX wallet system [140], allowing 
players seamless interaction with its blockchain-gaming 
ecosystem. 
 
2. T2 S3 (See Table 39) 
 
Table 39. ST strategies (2). 
Threats (T) 
T2 Blockchain technology complexity (TB2) 
Strengths (S) 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
 
Blockchain could be considered a complex 
technology, especially for a company that has no prior 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
84 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
knowledge and experience with it. It is found that the lack 
of interoperability and standardisation is hindering the 
adoption of blockchain at the enterprise level in financial 
services where assets are moved between different 
stakeholders [141]. The online gaming industry is no 
different, as there are transactions and digital assets that 
are always needed to be verified and moved between 
players’ accounts and servers. Although there is still a need 
for robust standards and mature development tools for 
blockchain-based games, the industry has been able to 
create promising standards in recent years. Examples of 
these are the ERC-20 standard, which is designed for the 
creation and use of tokens; and the ERC-721 standard, 
which represents the standardisation of NFTs. Both of 
them allow interoperability between DApps within the 
Ethereum blockchain [142]. There are also other initiatives 
around development tools for game developers such as 
Enjin [143], Ankr [144], and Arkane [145], which provide 
software development kits (SDKs) and APIs that come 
with support for popular game development tools (e.g. 
Unity and Unreal Engines) for the integration of 
blockchain-based games. The company thus should focus 
more on R&D for blockchain that can function as the 
underlying technology of online games to study how the 
technology has evolved and find suitable development 
tools. 
 
3. T3 S1 (See Table 40) 
 
Table 40. ST strategies (3). 
Threats (T) 
T3 
Sustainability issues of blockchain-based games 
(TB3) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
 
Sustainability is one of the main issues of blockchain-
based games. According to Glover [146], most P2E games 
are known for their unstable tokenomics (a portmanteau 
of “token” and “economics”) and repetitive gameplay. It 
is believed that the primary reason for this is that most 
existing companies in the blockchain industry have not 
had experience with game development; however, this 
could change as more game industry veterans are getting 
involved. Luton [147] suggests that there are, in essence, 
three elements to consider when designing a P2E model: 
1) mechanics, which are enabled by blockchain technology 
and are related to how tokens are transferred in and out of 
the ecosystem; 2) motivations, which are needed to be 
aligned between developers, players, and investors; and 3) 
systems, which describe how mechanics and motivations 
are connected together. The company thus should 
leverage its online gaming business know-how to address 
the sustainability issues in developing blockchain-based 
games. 
 
4. T4 S1 S3 (See Table 41) 
 
Table 41. ST strategies (4). 
Threats (T) 
T4 
Traditional games still have an advantage over 
blockchain-based games (TB4) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
 
As traditional games have been in the industry for a 
longer time compared to blockchain-based games, it is 
obvious that all the supporting technologies and 
development tools would be at a more mature stage, hence 
a better production quality in terms of graphics and 
gameplay. However, a focus on the R&D for blockchain 
technology in combination with online game business 
knowledge should help the company to be able to develop 
high-quality blockchain-based games. This could be 
observed from the fact that there currently are blockchain-
based games in development with a promise of high 
graphics and gameplay quality. Examples of these are 
Illuvium, a role-playing game developed on the Ethereum 
blockchain [148]; Star Atlas, a massively multiplayer online 
game developed on the Solana blockchain [149]; and 
League of Ancients, a multiplayer online battle arena game 
developed on Binance Smart Chain [150]. 
 
5. T5 T7 S1 S3 S7 (See Table 42) 
 
Table 42. ST strategies (5). 
Threats (T) 
T5 
Absence of successful development and 
implementation of blockchain-based games in 
Thailand (TB6) 
T7 Uncertain ROI (ORB1) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
S7 Resilient business and ability to adapt quickly 
 
Although there is an absence of successful 
development and implementation of blockchain-based 
games in Thailand, the company can use its business 
knowledge, fast and nimble organisation, and 
technological expertise to set up a pilot project for 
blockchain-based games. Implementing a small-scale pilot 
project is considered an efficient initiative to carry out 
innovation and would allow the company to realise 
benefits in terms of quality, time, cost, scope, risk, and 
resources [151]. Moreover, the data received from pilot 
projects would allow the company to predict the ROI and 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 85 
give an understanding of where the potential cause of 
failures might be, thereby being able to come up with 
corrective actions when deciding to actually scale up the 
projects. 
 
6. T6 S3 (See Table 43) 
 
Table 43. ST strategies (6). 
Threats (T) 
T6 Limitations of blockchain technology (TB7) 
Strengths (S) 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
 
Blockchain trilemma (i.e. scalability, security, 
decentralisation) has been known as the limitations of 
blockchain technology [152]. A prime example of this is 
high transaction fees during high traffic of Ethereum-
based games, resulting in an 87% decrease in active users 
[153]. However, there are many initiatives proposed to 
solve the limitations, including Layer 1 (i.e. the main 
blockchain networks) and Layer 2 solutions (i.e. secondary 
networks or technology operating on top of the existing 
blockchains). An example of Layer 1 solutions is 
Ethereum 2.0 [154], also known as Consensus Layer, 
which is aimed to make the Ethereum blockchain more 
scalable, more secure, and more sustainable by changing 
its consensus mechanism from Proof-of-Work (PoW) to 
Proof-of-Stake (PoS). Examples of Layer 2 solutions are 
nested blockchains, state channels, and sidechains [155]. 
These blockchain solutions have seen immense growth in 
recent years. Thus, an investment of the company in R&D 
could help provide a better understanding of blockchain 
technology and blockchain-based games. 
 
7. T8 S1 (See Table 44) 
 
Table 44. ST strategies (7). 
Threats (T) 
T8 New governance models (ORB5) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
 
One of the organisational structures established in the 
blockchain and cryptocurrency space is DAO, which is 
operated by distributed ledger technology and smart 
contracts with an aim to reduce human intervention in the 
decision-making process within organisations [156]. 
According to Dion [157], compared to traditional 
organisational structures, DAOs have the following five 
characteristics: 1) tokenised governance model; 2) 
decentralisation by design; 3) automated process using 
smart contracts; 4) transparency; and 5) ease of capital 
formation. Because of the decentralisation element of 
DAOs, various groups of stakeholders would be able to 
play a part in supporting Web 3.0 game development 
activities such as aligning a development direction and 
enabling community input and ownership.  
An expert, however, stated, “The idea of 
democratised decision-making is interesting, but from a 
game development perspective, I am not sure that it would 
create the best outcome for the game and its community.” 
He also proceeded and said, “It is easier [for players] to 
play the game than it is to decide the right direction for 
the game development.” Thus, the company could still 
mainly rely on its business knowledge and experience in 
the online gaming industry to develop blockchain-based 
games. However, it can mitigate this challenge by, for 
example, hosting open discussions with its players in the 
community or responding to their feedback to make sure 
that they are heard and seen. An example of this kind of 
initiative from a major game developer in the industry is 
World of Warcraft’s Community Council by Blizzard 
Entertainment [158], in which players are gathered to have 
open lines of communication with developers through the 
form of live chats. 
 
8. T9 T13 S4 (See Table 45) 
 
Table 45. ST strategies (8). 
Threats (T) 
T9 
Regulatory uncertainty and legal considerations 
(EB1) 
T13 Lack of policy framework (EB5) 
Strengths (S) 
S4 Relationship with local authorities 
 
The most critical barrier to the adoption of 
blockchain-based games in the company is regulatory 
uncertainty and legal considerations. To develop and 
publish blockchain-based games, there are many 
regulatory aspects to be considered, some of which are 
even yet to be established or settled by the authorities in 
Thailand. Some examples are the changes to tax 
regulations [159], the ban on NFTs and meme-based 
tokens [160], and no official rules and regulations about 
blockchain-based games for game developers, players, and 
investors. To overcome this challenge, the development 
of policies and regulatory frameworks by the government 
is necessary. It is also possible for the company to be one 
of the representatives of the online gaming industry to 
arrange a meeting with regulators and related stakeholders 
to find out where the potential challenges in the adoption 
of blockchain-based games could be solved by regulatory 
frameworks or policies issued by the government. 
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
86 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
9. T10 S1 S2 S5 (See Table 46) 
 
Table 46. ST strategies (9). 
Threats (T) 
T10 
Lack of education or understanding of 
blockchain-based games (EB2) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S2 Strong reputation in its main regions 
S5 
Partnership and collaboration with global game 
studios 
 
As most of the current blockchain-based games’ 
economies are driven by speculative activities, blockchain-
based games are sometimes viewed as Ponzi schemes or 
scams [161], [162]. Moreover, most companies developing 
blockchain-based games in the industry are newly 
established or not well-known in the online gaming 
industry. The company’s game business knowledge and 
collaboration with its global game studio partners can be 
used to develop blockchain-based games that have 
sustainable P2E business models. The sustainable 
business model and the reputation of the company and 
global studios could help overcome this challenge. The 
company also could make a public announcement to 
educate its players on how the business models of 
blockchain-based games work.  
 
10. T11 S1 S3 S6 (See Table 47) 
 
Table 47. ST strategies (10). 
Threats (T) 
T11 
Low social acceptance of blockchain-based 
games (EB3) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
S3 
Research and development (R&D) and 
technological capabilities 
S6 Large user base in its main regions 
 
Although blockchain gaming still is a niche market 
and is not reachable by the general public, the industry in 
the first quarter of 2022 grew by 2,000% from that of 2021 
[163]. This indicates that the blockchain gaming industry 
is growing very rapidly. To further gain acceptance, the 
company should use its business knowledge and invest in 
R&D to develop supporting solutions in the ecosystem of 
blockchain-based games that can solve user experience 
problems. Moreover, the company could leverage its 
existing user base to publish new blockchain-based games 
and pave the path to mass adoption. 
 
11. T12 S1 (See Table 48) 
 
Table 48. ST strategies (11). 
Threats (T) 
T12 
Public relations and the possibility of 
community backlash (EB4) 
Strengths (S) 
S1 
In-depth knowledge and understanding of the 
online gaming business 
 
Integrating an element of NFTs into existing games 
has shown a possibility of community backlash for some 
game developers. The reason is that players believed that 
the integration of NFTs is just another method for game 
developers to earn more profits without actually making 
the game more enjoyable [164]. The company could use 
its experience in the online gaming business to predict and 
align its players’ expectations with the P2E models and 
NFT features when developing blockchain-based games. 
Market research also could be conducted before 
developing blockchain-based games to understand players’ 
expectations. 
 
12. T14 S8 (See Table 49) 
 
Table 49. ST strategies (12). 
Threats (T) 
T14 Lack of investment incentives (EB6) 
Strengths (S) 
S8 Ability to raise capital 
 
An expert stated, “Investment incentives from the 
government would be one of the key accelerators for the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in the company.” 
The government should incentivise online gaming 
companies, which are part of the digital economy in 
accordance with the Thailand 4.0 policy, to adopt 
blockchain as the underlying technology of online games. 
This process could be done in conjunction with all the 
necessary regulatory frameworks and policies. However, 
another expert stated, “It is believed that we have enough 
cash to deploy blockchain-based games in the company, 
and we can raise money to fund the development of 
blockchain-based games if it is necessary. We have raised 
a few rounds of funding in the past.” Thus, the company 
also could use its financial strength to overcome the 
investment incentive challenge. 
 
4.3.1.3. WO strategies 
 
There are 5 WO strategies as follows:  
 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 87 
1. O4 O11 W1 (See Table 50) 
Table 50. WO strategies (1). 
Opportunities (O) 
O4 Sever cost reduction (OPO4) 
O11 Global user base (SO4) 
Weaknesses (W) 
W1 
Limited operating history of publishing games 
globally 
 
Blockchain networks that anyone in any part of the 
world has access to can easily help the company expand 
its user base to a global scale at a potentially lower cost 
than traditional game servers, given that it is a one-off 
purchase for each activity in the blockchain compared to 
the recurring cost of running and expanding servers in 
traditional online games. Costs of executing smart 
contracts (i.e. transaction fees) in the blockchain also 
could be transferred to executors [73]. 
 
2. O13 W5 (See Table 51) 
 
Table 51. WO strategies (2). 
Opportunities (O) 
O13 New business models (SO6) 
Weaknesses (W) 
W5 
Current business models are still profitable 
(ORB2) 
 
While it is true that the current F2P business model 
where game developers earn revenue through IAPs is still 
profitable, it has been proven that the P2E model can be 
an additional source of income by collecting transaction 
fees that occur on the blockchain. A study by Levy and 
Barnes [165] reveals that over two-thirds of the revenue of 
Thetan Arean, a blockchain-based game combining both 
F2P and P2E models, are from transaction fees on the 
blockchain, albeit experiencing a fluctuation over time. It 
is always a good idea for the company to not rely solely on 
a single business model and to find new revenue streams 
in such a highly competitive environment as the online 
gaming industry.  
 
3. O5 W4 (See Table 52) 
 
Table 52. WO strategies (3). 
Opportunities (O) 
O5 Better unit economics (MO1) 
Weaknesses (W) 
W4 High switching costs (ORB4) 
 
According to Alroumi [166], blockchain-based games 
and the P2E model can lower the player acquisition cost 
for game developers. P2E games are known for their 
characteristics that can provide financial incentives for 
players, thus generating word of mouth and reducing 
marketing costs. Moreover, blockchain-based games can 
encourage high player spending compared to F2P games. 
The reason is that spending within the game can be 
considered a form of investment opportunity. Because of 
the decreased player acquisition cost and increased 
customer spending, the P2E model provides game 
developers with an alternative business model that could 
provide long-term economic benefits to the company, 
thereby offsetting the high switching costs of blockchain-
based games. 
 
 
4. O5 O11 O13 W3 (See Table 53) 
 
Table 53. WO strategies (4). 
Opportunities (O) 
O5 Better unit economics (MO1) 
O11 Global user base (SO4) 
O13 New business models (SO6) 
Weaknesses (W) 
W3 
Lack of understanding by top management 
(ORB3) 
 
Because of the nature of the P2E model, some part of 
the monetary value will be transferred to players. It could 
be difficult for the management to switch their current 
monetisation model where all the sales on the platform 
will go towards the company. To make blockchain-based 
games a part of the company’s business strategy, the 
management team needs to believe that there will be 
greater tangible benefits which would be worth the time 
and effort as a result of adopting blockchain-based games. 
The benefits that the company would get immediately are 
the new P2E business model, which would act as an 
additional revenue stream; untapped markets on a global 
scale; and higher average revenue per player (ARPU) 
resulting from the revenue sharing model. The company 
also could put more effort into the R&D for blockchain-
based games to study the technology and the potential 
benefits that it could bring to the organisation. 
 
5. O10 O11 O13 W6 (See Table 54) 
 
Table 54. WO strategies (5). 
Opportunities (O) 
O10 New reward systems for players (SO3) 
O11 Global user base (SO4) 
O13 New business models (SO6) 
Weaknesses (W) 
W6 
Lack of proper resources and capabilities 
(ORB6) 
 
To mitigate the financial challenges, according to 
Binance Academy [167], one of the available options for 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
88 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
raising venture capital and project funding in the 
blockchain and cryptocurrency space is called ICO, which  
is a process that allows the company to raise funds through 
the use of cryptocurrencies. How ICOs work is often 
compared with how traditional companies raise funds 
through Initial Public Offering (IPO); however, ICOs are 
less regulated than capital markets [168]. This fundraising 
strategy can be used in the early development stages of 
blockchain-based games to get financial support from 
early investors around the globe who are interested in the 
product and service offerings of the company. 
 
4.3.1.4. WT strategies 
 
There is 1 WT strategy as follows: 
 
1. T2 T5 W2 W6 (See Table 55) 
 
Table 55. WT strategies (1). 
Threats (T) 
T2 Blockchain technology complexity (TB2) 
T5 
Absence of successful development and 
implementation of blockchain-based games in 
Thailand (TB6) 
Weaknesses (W) 
W2 
Lack of technological knowledge to distinguish 
different blockchain networks (TB5) 
W6 
Lack of proper resources and capabilities 
(ORB6) 
 
An expert stated, “We currently do not have enough 
knowledge to cope with blockchain technology, as our 
core competencies are in developing and publishing 
traditional online games.” To minimise the company’s 
weaknesses for the lack of technical knowledge and 
capabilities combined with external threats that there is no 
successful development of blockchain-based games in 
Thailand and that blockchain technology is complex, an 
acquisition of a blockchain-based gaming development 
company could be considered as part of the company’s 
strategic options. This approach is based on the 
diversification strategy – horizontal integration from 
Ansoff’s [169] product-market strategies. The company 
will have access to new products and services (i.e. 
blockchain-based games and related services) in a new 
market (i.e. blockchain and cryptocurrency industry), and 
the company would be able to increase its blockchain 
technology capabilities. 
 
4.3.2. Roadmap 
 
After having formulated all the possible strategies, a 
roadmap with action plans should be developed to help 
the company plan the investments, allocate resources, and 
make informed decisions about the adoption of 
blockchain-based games. Given the nature of the online 
gaming industry and the blockchain technology that is 
constantly evolving at a rapid pace, the roadmap is divided 
into short-, medium-, and long-term action plans over a 
period of 6 years from 2022 to 2027 (see Table 56). There 
are 2 approaches to developing action plans on the 
roadmap. First, the PNs of all the opportunity and barrier 
factors are considered. Factors with higher PNs mean they 
are considered more important, and immediate responses 
are required. If there is an alignment with the strategies 
discussed earlier, actions in response to those factors are 
then proposed as part of the short-term action plans. 
Second, the knowledge and experience of the experts from 
the semi-structured interview is used in combination with 
the literature for the development of the roadmap. 
Because of the time constraints, economic limitations, and 
legal considerations, the implementation of the proposed 
action plans falls outside of the scope of this research. 
Based on Table 56, suggestions for short-, medium-, and 
long-term projects to promote the adoption of 
blockchain-based games in online gaming companies in 
Thailand are as follows: 
 
4.3.2.1. Short-term action plan 
 
Resolve the Regulatory Uncertainty. Regulatory uncertainty 
is the main concern that online gaming companies face 
when deciding to adopt blockchain-based games. The 
government and regulators need to have clear frameworks 
and policies that can support the adoption of blockchain-
based games. When players earn cryptocurrencies from 
blockchain-based games, they will recognise ordinary 
income based on the fair market value of the tokens, and 
capital gain (or loss) will be incurred when they disposed 
of those tokens depending on the price that has changed. 
Thus, tax implications that are currently unclear should be 
clarified for all stakeholders including online gaming 
companies, players, and investors. Moreover, NFTs as 
digital assets pose challenges in terms of intellectual 
property for online gaming companies [79]. There should 
be clear ownership rules and boundaries to help them 
protect their intellectual property rights. There also should 
be know-your-customer (KYC) and anti-money 
laundering (AML) regulations for online gaming 
companies to comply with to mitigate possible financial 
crimes [170]. 
Build a Small-Scale Pilot Project for Blockchain-Based Games. 
In the first phase of the roadmap, a small-scale pilot 
project should be built. The purpose of the pilot project is 
to test the developing and publishing processes of a 
blockchain-based game and consequently gain the 
knowledge and data required for successful 
implementation. The actions to set up the pilot project 
should include the identification of the goals, the design 
of the project with estimated time and costs, and the 
establishment of a team with appropriate training and 
resources to operate the project. Acquiring new talented 
employees with adequate skills and qualifications to join 
the team could also be considered. The result and 
feedback obtained from the project should be used to 
evaluate the failures and design improvement plans before 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 89 
deploying blockchain-based games on a larger scale. In 
this phase, knowledge and data gained from this phase 
should also be shared between regulators and online 
gaming companies to plan suitable regulations required for 
the successful implementation of blockchain-based games. 
 
Table 56. Action plans for the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
 
Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 
Short-Term Action Plan  
(2022-2023) 
Medium-Term Action Plan 
(2024-2025) 
Long-Term Action Plan 
(2026-2027) 
• Make blockchain-based games a 
part of the company’s business 
strategy 
• Put effort into R&D to study 
the technology behind 
blockchain-based games and the 
immediate benefits of adopting 
blockchain-based games 
• Develop the utilisation plan for 
the tokenisation model and 
financial incentives of 
blockchain-based games for 
both internal and external 
stakeholders 
• Search for partners in the 
industry to develop a platform 
required for interacting with the 
ecosystem of blockchain-based 
games 
• Focus on R&D for blockchain-
based games to find suitable 
development tools 
• Develop a small-scale pilot 
project for blockchain-based 
games 
• Develop a fundraising plan for 
the development of blockchain-
based games 
• Explore the potential of using 
the P2E model as a new 
business model for the company 
• Regulators to plan the 
development of regulatory 
frameworks and policies 
• Release a series of educational 
content to educate the public 
about blockchain-based games 
• Study the tokenomics of 
blockchain-based games and 
how to develop a sustainable 
P2E business model 
• Assess the ROI based on the 
pilot project and develop an 
improvement plan 
• Scale up the project to serve the 
existing user base 
• Integrate the company’s 
knowledge and technological 
capabilities into improving 
graphics and gameplay for high-
quality blockchain-based games 
• Assess additional opportunities 
for adopting blockchain-based 
games (e.g. cross-chain 
compatibility, management of 
digital assets, prevention of 
value leakage) 
• Develop a platform for players 
to participate in blockchain-
based games 
• Conduct market research to 
understand players’ expectations 
• Continue to invest in R&D for 
blockchain technology 
robustness 
• Establishment of official rules 
and regulations about 
blockchain-based games for 
game developers, players, and 
investors 
• Fully publish blockchain-based 
games as part of the company’s 
product and service offerings 
• Continue to invest in R&D for 
the development of related 
technologies to further improve 
blockchain-based games 
• Explore long-term benefits of 
adopting blockchain-based 
games (e.g. support for a better 
gaming ecosystem, long-term 
business learning, and 
organisational changes) 
• Policy frameworks to support 
the adoption of blockchain-
based games for online gaming 
companies 
• Investment incentives for online 
gaming companies to adopt 
blockchain-based games 
 
Design a Sustainable P2E Model. One of the key features 
of blockchain-based games is the P2E model. However, 
according to Nystrom [171], the current P2E model has 3 
main flaws: 1) blockchain-based games are too reliant on 
the “pay-to-win” game dynamic (i.e. the practice of paying 
money that gives players a significant advantage over 
others); 2) huge upfront investment in NFTs is required 
for players to play blockchain-based games, which is a 
barrier to entry for potential players, thus further 
enhancing the pay-to-win game dynamic; and 3) 
blockchain-based games are not enjoyable, and players are 
motivated only by financial incentives. As a result, these 
routine actions make the P2E model unsustainable in the 
long term. The sustainability of the P2E model is, 
therefore, the main challenge that the company as one of 
the leading online gaming companies in the industry needs 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
90 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
to overcome. The company should use its business 
expertise and study the existing blockchain-based games 
in the market to create a P2E model that can sustain a 
competitive environment and has a robust economy. 
 
4.3.2.4. Medium-term action plan 
 
Scale up the Pilot Project for Blockchain-Based Games. The 
second phase of the roadmap is to scale up the pilot 
project. The purpose of this phase is to utilise the 
knowledge and experience gained from testing the pilot 
project in the first phase of the roadmap to extend the 
project to serve the existing user base of the company, 
which will provide the company with more knowledge and 
data on a larger scale. There also should be an evaluation 
of the commercial potential of the P2E model of 
blockchain-based games by assessing the ROI and the 
revenue-generating model. 
Develop a Platform for Blockchain-Based Games. Online 
gaming companies must overcome user experience 
challenges in designing blockchain-based games. The 
objective of this phase should be to focus on how players 
can participate in the ecosystem of blockchain-based 
games in a seamless manner without the need to directly 
interact with blockchain technological complexities. A 
platform should be developed and integrated into 
blockchain-based games to provide, for example, the 
process of on-ramps and off-ramps, which can facilitate 
the exchange between fiat money and cryptocurrencies. 
The company could also collaborate with other leading 
developers in the industry to build such a platform. 
 
4.3.2.2. Long-term action plan 
 
Fully Publish Blockchain-Based Games. The last phase of 
the roadmap is the full deployment of blockchain-based 
games as part of the company’s product and service 
offerings. The blockchain-based games in this phase are 
improved from the second phase to have higher quality in 
terms of graphics, gameplay, and monetization model with 
more reliable underlying blockchain technology. There is 
still a need for continuous R&D to keep up with 
constantly changing technology and to mitigate risks in 
deploying blockchain-based games as well as maximise the 
long-term benefits of blockchain-based games on a larger 
scale. Moreover, it is expected that there will be policy 
frameworks and investment incentives from the 
government to support the adoption of blockchain-based 
games for online gaming companies in Thailand. 
 
5. Discussion and Conclusion 
 
5.1. Discussion 
 
Blockchain-based games, which mainly include the 
use of NFTs and cryptocurrencies to create a new digital 
economy and a new business model called “P2E”, are a 
potential disruption to the value proposition of online 
games and how developers and players communicate and 
interact with each other, thereby posing great challenges 
to traditional companies in the online gaming industry. 
Although blockchain-based games are evolving and 
growing fast [172], they are still in an early stage. There are 
limited studies regarding the potential opportunities and 
challenges of blockchain-based games, especially from a 
managerial perspective. This research thus aims to close 
the literature gap and study potential opportunities and 
barriers related to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in an online gaming company in Thailand, as well 
as suggest how it can seize the opportunities that 
blockchain-based games could offer and overcome the 
barriers that prevent the adoption of blockchain-based 
games. 
This research studies the applications of blockchain 
technology in the online gaming industry. It is found that 
blockchain can be used as the underlying technology of 
online games, also known as blockchain-based games. 
Blockchain-based games are part of DApps or Web 3.0 
applications. Ethereum is the most recognised blockchain 
used for hosting blockchain-based games. Moreover, 
many elements of blockchain technology are utilised in 
blockchain-based games. Some examples are NFTs that 
can be used as digital assets for blockchain-based games, 
which introduce the concept of digital scarcity and 
increase a sense of ownership; Smart contracts that are 
used to verify transactions and the transfers of the 
ownership of digital assets, hence improving transparency 
and traceability; and cryptocurrencies that are used as a 
means of payment and financial incentives for 
participating in blockchain-based games, hence the 
creation of the new business model “P2E”. The Metaverse, 
which is an emerging theme in the blockchain industry, is 
a futuristic concept of virtual worlds where physical and 
digital lives are converged. Blockchain and Web 3.0 
applications are expected to play an important part in 
building future virtual spaces where people will have new 
forms of social interactions and digital economies. 
This research also identifies potential opportunities 
and barriers related to the adoption of blockchain-based 
games in an online gaming company in Thailand. To 
achieve this objective, potential opportunities and barriers 
are identified based on the literature review. However, 
there are 6 additional factors, which are 3 opportunities 
and 3 barriers, proposed in this research. As a result, a total 
of 23 opportunities and 24 barriers are identified in this 
research.  
Next, all the identified opportunities and barriers are 
classified. Shang and Seddon’s [1] benefits framework is 
used for classifying the opportunities. All 23 opportunity 
factors are categorised into 5 dimensions:  
• 4 Operational opportunities; 
• 3 Managerial opportunities;  
• 9 Strategic opportunities; 
• 4 Infrastructure opportunities; and 
• 3 Organisational opportunities.  
The TOE framework is used for classifying the barriers. 
All 24 barrier factors are categorised into 3 dimensions:  
• 9 Technological barriers; 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 91 
• 8 Organisational barriers; and  
• 7 Environmental barriers. 
The opportunities and barriers related to the adoption 
of blockchain-based games in an online gaming company 
in Thailand are then assessed. There are 4 main steps used 
to evaluate the opportunities and barriers: 1) application 
of FMEA; 2) application of AHP; 3) calculation of PN; 
and 4) Pareto analysis.  
1. The concept of the FMEA process is used in this 
research. Each opportunity and barrier comprises 3 
elements of FMEA, which are: Likelihood (L), Impact (I), 
and Control (C). A 5-point Likert scale questionnaire is 
sent to a total of 7 experts at the online gaming company 
in Thailand to assign a score ranging from 1 to 5 to these 
elements of each factor based on the given criteria.  
2. To improve the FMEA process in this research, 
the AHP is used to determine the relative weights of each 
FMEA element. The reason is that each of these elements 
might have a different effect on the company’s decision to 
adopt blockchain-based games. AHP’s preferences are 
obtained from the group interview with the same group of 
experts who agree to participate in the questionnaire.  
3. The PN of each opportunity and barrier is 
calculated by finding a sum of all FMEA elements after 
being multiplied by their respective relative weights. The 
resulting PNs can be used to determine which factors are 
more important. The factors with higher PNs mean that 
they are more important. In terms of opportunities, the 
highest-ranked dimension by PN is infrastructure, 
followed by strategic, organisational, operational, and 
managerial, respectively. Two opportunities with the 
highest PN are from the strategic dimension: increased sense 
of ownership and customer co-creation. The properties of NFT 
used as digital assets in blockchain-based games can help 
improve the strategic outcome of the company in a way 
that players would have an increased sense of ownership 
over the digital assets. The reason is that the use of 
blockchain technology and NFTs can represent proof of 
ownership, introduce scarcity, and ensure the traceability 
of digital assets [173]. Enabled by blockchain technology, 
tokenisation is described as the future of co-creation [174]. 
The reason is that tokens, which are transferable and 
exchangeable, represent a measurable unit of value and 
provide incentives for stakeholders to participate in the 
networks, thereby promoting collaboration and collective 
decision-making. In terms of barriers, the highest-ranked 
dimension by PN is environmental, followed by 
technological and organisational, respectively. The barrier 
with the highest PN is from the environmental dimension: 
regulatory uncertainty and legal considerations. This means it is 
clear that the adoption is affected by concerns about how 
the authorities in Thailand may impose legislation or 
restrictions that could affect the blockchain industry and 
blockchain-based games and no clear regulations in many 
aspects of the blockchain industry in Thailand. The result 
of this research that regulatory uncertainty is the main 
challenge to the adoption of blockchain-based games also 
correlates with the result from a survey conducted by 
BGA [74], although the respondents live in many different 
geographical locations.  
4. Lastly, the Pareto principle is applied in this 
research to find critical opportunities and barriers. As a 
result, out of a total of 23 opportunities, there are 21 
critical opportunities:  
• 4 Operational opportunities; 
• 3 Managerial opportunities;  
• 7 Strategic opportunities; 
• 4 Infrastructure opportunities; and  
• 3 Organisational opportunities.  
Out of a total of 24 barrier factors, there are 19 critical 
barrier factors:  
• 7 Technological barriers; 
• 6 Organisational barriers; and  
• 6 Environmental barriers. 
Possible strategies and a roadmap with an action plan 
to exploit the opportunities and address the barriers to the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in an online gaming 
company in Thailand are also proposed. The TOWS 
matrix is the tool used for formulating strategies by 
matching external factors with internal factors of the 
company. It is found that the company has 9 internal 
factors (i.e. 8 internal strengths and 1 internal weakness), 
which are used in combination with 21 critical 
opportunities and 19 critical barriers to create the 
strategies that can serve as guidance for the company on 
how to respond to the critical opportunities and barriers 
related to the adoption of blockchain-based games. As a 
result, a total of 7 SO, 12 ST, 5 WO, and 1 WT strategies 
are proposed in this research. A roadmap including short-, 
medium-, and long-term action plans to promote the 
adoption of blockchain-based games in the company is 
also proposed. The action plans are developed based on 
the PNs and the experts’ feedback from the interview. 
 
5.2. Limitations of the Research 
 
This research has a few limitations as follows: 
• There is limited prior academic literature on the 
topic of this research, which studies opportunities and 
barriers to the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
Although this research is able to extract additional factors 
(see Section 4.2.1), there possibly could be other factors 
that are not included in this research.  
• The findings of this research are based on a 
questionnaire and an interview with a group of experts 
from one of the online gaming companies operating in 
Thailand. This research thus may not be able to represent 
the entire industry. Representatives from different 
companies could have different viewpoints on factors 
related to the adoption of blockchain-based games. 
• This research does not include the perspectives of 
other stakeholders who could influence the adoption of 
blockchain-based games such as the government and 
financial regulatory authorities when developing the 
strategies and the roadmap. 
• Limitations of quantitative analysis in this 
research should also be considered. 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
92 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
5.3. Conclusion 
 
Blockchain has a disruptive impact on many sectors, 
one of which is the online gaming industry. The reason is 
that blockchain-based games can revolutionise the online 
gaming industry by introducing players and developers to 
new ways of interacting with each other and changing the 
value proposition of playing games. The findings of this 
research have shown that blockchain-based games could 
be developed so that they benefit from the features of 
blockchain technology by including the use of DApps, 
smart contracts, and NFTs. Blockchain-based games and 
blockchain technology as a whole are still in their 
preliminary stage but are constantly evolving. Thus, the 
future of blockchain-based games is yet to fully unfold. 
There has been an increasing number of industry veterans 
and practitioners stepping into the blockchain industry by 
developing blockchain-based games and integrating 
blockchain features into their product and service 
offerings. In years to come, as blockchain-based games are 
being adopted and experimented on, not every project will 
succeed, and there will be rises and falls of many projects 
along the way. However, one thing is certain: blockchain 
will introduce interesting years of R&D and innovation to 
the online gaming industry. The successful 
implementation of blockchain-based games in the online 
gaming industry eventually could be one of the key reasons 
for the mass adoption of blockchain technology.  
This research proposes possible strategies that could 
be used as guidance to promote the adoption of 
blockchain-based games in online gaming companies in 
Thailand. How the opportunities could be exploited and 
how the barriers could be addressed are also discussed in 
this research. Following the proposed strategies, there are 
further actions to be made by all the relevant stakeholders 
including online gaming companies, the government, and 
authorities to facilitate the adoption of blockchain-based 
games. The findings of this research are beneficial to 
online gaming companies in such a way that a 
comprehensive view of the critical opportunities and 
barriers is clearly shown from a managerial perspective. 
Moreover, the proposed strategies and the roadmap with 
action plans can shape the path of strategic development, 
design of strategic decisions, planning, and frameworks, 
and provide suggestions for the successful adoption of 
blockchain-based games not only for the case company 
but also for other online gaming companies in the industry. 
The findings of this research offer significant insights 
into the opportunities, barriers, and strategies for the 
adoption of blockchain-based games; however, the 
research methodology could be extended. Although the 
semi-structured interview format in this research could be 
considered appropriate for an explorative study, 
alternative methods such as a Delphi study could be used 
during the identification and evaluation processes of 
opportunities and barriers for a more organised approach 
to collecting and analysing experts’ opinions, which could 
result in a more in-depth understanding of the research 
subject and more robust findings. Moreover, all 
opportunities or barriers may not be equally important in 
real-life and their influence on the adoption of blockchain-
based games may not be the same. As there could be 
different strategies for technology adoption, the change in 
the priority of one opportunity or barrier may relatively 
affect another. Thus, the methodology of future studies 
could be designed so that the relationships between each 
factor in the same category, the relative weights of 
different categories, and their effects on the adoption of 
blockchain-based games are considered. 
By using this research as a foundation, the scope of 
future studies could be extended in a way that more 
traditional online gaming companies and other 
stakeholders (e.g. representatives from the government 
and authorities) could be included throughout all the steps 
of the research. Their opinions also could be used to fill 
the literature gap and could be considered when 
developing the strategies and the roadmap to serve as a 
guiding tool in facilitating the adoption of blockchain-
based games. 
 
References 
 
[1] S. Shang and P. B. Seddon, “A comprehensive 
framework for classifying the benefits of ERP 
systems,” in AMCIS 2000 Proceedings, 2000, pp.1005-
1014. 
[2] S. Harapko. (2021). How COVID-19 impacted supply 
chains and what comes next [Online]. Available: 
https://www.ey.com/en_gl/supply-chain/how-
covid-19-impacted-supply-chains-and-what-comes-
next [Accessed: 25 November 2021] 
[3] DEPA. (2019). Thailand Digital Technology Foresight 
2035 [Online]. Available: 
https://www.depa.or.th/en/home [Accessed: 27 
May 2022] 
[4] J. Weustink. (2021). Insights into Thailand’s Games 
Market and Its Gamers [Online]. Available: 
https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/insights-
into-thailands-games-market-and-its-gamers/ 
[Accessed: 25 November 2021] 
[5] S. Leesa-Nguansuk. (2019). Game on! E-sports tallies 
massive growth, offers novel careers [Online]. Available:  
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1723351/ga
me-on-e-sports-tallies-massive-growth-offers-novel-
careers#:~:text=According%20to%20NewZoo%2
C%20Thailand%20ranks,%25%20year%2Don%2D
year [Accessed: 3 December 2021] 
[6] Statista. (2022). Video Games: Thailand [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/digital-
media/video-games/thailand [Accessed: 25 
November 2021] 
[7] Deloitte. (2021). The Thailand Digital Transformation 
Survey Report: The impact of COVID-19 [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www2.deloitte.com/th/en/pages/technolo
gy/articles/the-thailand-digital-transformation-
survey-report.html [Accessed: 25 November 2021] 
https://www.ey.com/en_gl/supply-chain/how-covid-19-impacted-supply-chains-and-what-comes-next
https://www.ey.com/en_gl/supply-chain/how-covid-19-impacted-supply-chains-and-what-comes-next
https://www.ey.com/en_gl/supply-chain/how-covid-19-impacted-supply-chains-and-what-comes-next
https://www.depa.or.th/en/home
https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/insights-into-thailands-games-market-and-its-gamers/
https://newzoo.com/insights/articles/insights-into-thailands-games-market-and-its-gamers/
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1723351/game-on-e-sports-tallies-massive-growth-offers-novel-careers%23:~:text=According%20to%20NewZoo%2C%20Thailand%20ranks,%25%20year-on-year
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1723351/game-on-e-sports-tallies-massive-growth-offers-novel-careers%23:~:text=According%20to%20NewZoo%2C%20Thailand%20ranks,%25%20year-on-year
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1723351/game-on-e-sports-tallies-massive-growth-offers-novel-careers%23:~:text=According%20to%20NewZoo%2C%20Thailand%20ranks,%25%20year-on-year
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1723351/game-on-e-sports-tallies-massive-growth-offers-novel-careers%23:~:text=According%20to%20NewZoo%2C%20Thailand%20ranks,%25%20year-on-year
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1723351/game-on-e-sports-tallies-massive-growth-offers-novel-careers%23:~:text=According%20to%20NewZoo%2C%20Thailand%20ranks,%25%20year-on-year
https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/digital-media/video-games/thailand
https://www.statista.com/outlook/dmo/digital-media/video-games/thailand
https://www2.deloitte.com/th/en/pages/technology/articles/the-thailand-digital-transformation-survey-report.html
https://www2.deloitte.com/th/en/pages/technology/articles/the-thailand-digital-transformation-survey-report.html
https://www2.deloitte.com/th/en/pages/technology/articles/the-thailand-digital-transformation-survey-report.html
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 93 
[8] S. Pongnumkul, T. Bunditlurdruk, P. Chaovalit, and 
A. Tharatipyakul, “A Cross-Sectional Review of 
Blockchain in Thailand: Research Literature, 
Education Courses, and Industry Projects,” Applied 
Sciences, vol. 11, no. 11, pp. 1-27, 2021. 
[9] J. Yang. (2018). Thailand is becoming a critical country for 
blockchain [Online]. Available: 
https://techcrunch.com/2018/08/31/thailand-
blockchain/ [Accessed: 24 March 2022] 
[10] BOT. (2021). Retail Central Bank Digital Currency 
(Retail CBDC): Implications on the Thai Financial Sector 
and Survey Results [Press release]. Available: 
https://www.bot.or.th/English/PressandSpeeches
/Press/2021/Pages/n6064.aspx [Accessed: 24 
March 2022] 
[11] SCB. (2020). Outward Remittance Service via SCB EASY 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.scb.co.th/en/about-us/news/apr-
2020/nws-global-payment.html [Accessed: 24 
March 2022] 
[12] DGA. (2021). BlockChain for Government Services 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.dga.or.th/document-sharing/dga-e-
book/annual-blockchain/47115/ [Accessed: 24 
March 2022] 
[13] S. Leesa-Nguansuk. (2019). Nectec develops blockchain 
for elections [Online]. Available: 
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1604574/nec
tec-develops-blockchain-for-elections [Accessed: 20 
April 2022] 
[14] S. Kemp. (2022). DIGITAL 2022: GLOBAL 
OVERVIEW REPORT [Online]. Available: 
https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2022-
global-overview-
report?utm_source=Global_Digital_Reports&utm_
medium=Article&utm_campaign=Digital_2022 
[Accessed 24 March 2022] 
[15] P. Herrera. (2022). BGA Blockchain Game Report 2021 
[Online]. Available: 
https://dappradar.com/blog/bga-blockchain-
game-report-2021 [Accessed: 5 April 2022] 
[16] C. Jones. and P. Pimdee, “Innovative ideas: Thailand 
4.0 and the fourth industrial revolution,” Asian 
International Journal of Social Sciences, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 
4-35, 2017. 
[17] DEPA. (2021). Investment Quarterly Gaming: Gaming 
Industry [Online]. Available: 
https://www.depa.or.th/en/article-
view/investmentquarterly-gaming-industry-2564 
[Accessed: 25 November 2021] 
[18] K.W. Prewett, G.L. Prescott and K. Phillips, 
“Blockchain adoption is inevitable—Barriers and 
risks remain,” Journal of Corporate accounting & finance, 
vol. 31, no. 2, pp. 21-28, 2020. 
[19] OIE. (2016). 20-Year National Strategy and Thailand 4.0 
Policy (2016 - 2036): Ministry of Industry [Online]. 
Available: 
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0
%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%
A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0
%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8
%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81
%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0
%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%
9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH 
[Accessed: 5 April 2022] 
[20] R. Sifa, F. Hadiji, J. Runge, A. Drachen, K. Kersting, 
and C. Bauckhage, “Predicting Purchase Decisions 
in Mobile Free-to-Play Games,” in Proceedings of the 
AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Interactive 
Digital Entertainment, Santa Cruz, California, 2015, pp. 
79-85. 
[21] WePC. (2021). Video Gaming Monetization Statistics 
2021 [Online]. Available: 
https://www.wepc.com/statistics/video-gaming-
monetization/ [Accessed: 3 December 2021] 
[22] S. Nakamoto. (2009). Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic 
Cash System [Online]. Available: 
https://bitcoin.org/en/bitcoin-paper [Accessed: 18 
November 2021] 
[23] D. Efanov and P. Roschin, “The all-pervasiveness of 
the blockchain technology,” Procedia Computer 
Science, vol. 123, pp. 116-121, 2018. 
[24] D. Yaga, P. Mell, N. Roby, and K. Scarfone. (2019). 
Blockchain technology overview [Online]. Available: 
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/nistir/820
2/final [Accessed: 21 November 2021] 
[25] M. Crosby, P. Pattanayak, S. Verma, and V, 
“Kalyanaraman. Blockchain technology: Beyond 
bitcoin,” Applied Innovation, vol. 2, pp. 6-19, 2016 
[26] M. Attaran and A. Gunasekaran, Applications of 
Blockchain Technology in Business Challenges and 
Opportunities. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2019. 
[27] M. Swan, Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy. CA: 
O'Reilly Media, Inc, 2015.  
[28] P. Mukherjee and C. Pradhan, “Blockchain 1.0 to 
Blockchain 4.0—The Evolutionary Transformation 
of Blockchain Technology,” in Blockchain Technology: 
Applications and Challenges. Cham: Springer, 2021, 
pp.29-49. 
[29] J. Angelis and E. R. da Silva, “Blockchain adoption: 
A value driver perspective,” Business Horizons, vol 62, 
no. 3, pp. 307-314, 2019. 
[30] A. M. Antonopoulos and G. Wood, Mastering 
Ethereum: Building Smart Contracts and Dapps. CA: 
O’Reilly Media, 2018.  
[31] S. Raval, Decentralized Applications: Harnessing Bitcoin's 
Blockchain Technology. CA: O'Reilly Media, Inc, 2016. 
[32] A. G. Khan, A. H. Zahid, M. Hussain, M. Farooq, U. 
Riaz, and T. M. Alam, “A journey of WEB and 
Blockchain towards the Industry 4.0: An Overview,” 
in 2019 International Conference on Innovative Computing 
(ICIC), Lahore, Pakistan, 2019, pp. 1-7. 
[33] Nasdaq. (2017). Analysis: What Blockchain Technology 
Means for Artificial Intelligence [Online]. Available: 
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/analysis-what-
blockchain-technology-means-artificial-intelligence-
2017-12-07 [Accessed: 21 November 2021] 
https://techcrunch.com/2018/08/31/thailand-blockchain/
https://techcrunch.com/2018/08/31/thailand-blockchain/
https://www.bot.or.th/English/PressandSpeeches/Press/2021/Pages/n6064.aspx
https://www.bot.or.th/English/PressandSpeeches/Press/2021/Pages/n6064.aspx
https://www.scb.co.th/en/about-us/news/apr-2020/nws-global-payment.html
https://www.scb.co.th/en/about-us/news/apr-2020/nws-global-payment.html
https://www.dga.or.th/document-sharing/dga-e-book/annual-blockchain/47115/
https://www.dga.or.th/document-sharing/dga-e-book/annual-blockchain/47115/
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1604574/nectec-develops-blockchain-for-elections
https://www.bangkokpost.com/tech/1604574/nectec-develops-blockchain-for-elections
https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2022-global-overview-report?utm_source=Global_Digital_Reports&utm_medium=Article&utm_campaign=Digital_2022
https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2022-global-overview-report?utm_source=Global_Digital_Reports&utm_medium=Article&utm_campaign=Digital_2022
https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2022-global-overview-report?utm_source=Global_Digital_Reports&utm_medium=Article&utm_campaign=Digital_2022
https://datareportal.com/reports/digital-2022-global-overview-report?utm_source=Global_Digital_Reports&utm_medium=Article&utm_campaign=Digital_2022
https://dappradar.com/blog/bga-blockchain-game-report-2021
https://dappradar.com/blog/bga-blockchain-game-report-2021
https://www.depa.or.th/en/article-view/investmentquarterly-gaming-industry-2564
https://www.depa.or.th/en/article-view/investmentquarterly-gaming-industry-2564
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
http://www.oie.go.th/view/1/%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%9C%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%81%E0%B8%A1%E0%B9%88%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%97%E0%B8%AD%E0%B8%B8%E0%B8%95%E0%B8%AA%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%AB%E0%B8%81%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A3%E0%B8%A1_%E0%B8%99%E0%B9%82%E0%B8%A2%E0%B8%9A%E0%B8%B2%E0%B8%A2/TH-TH
https://www.wepc.com/statistics/video-gaming-monetization/
https://www.wepc.com/statistics/video-gaming-monetization/
https://bitcoin.org/en/bitcoin-paper
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/nistir/8202/final
https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/nistir/8202/final
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/analysis-what-blockchain-technology-means-artificial-intelligence-2017-12-07
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/analysis-what-blockchain-technology-means-artificial-intelligence-2017-12-07
https://www.nasdaq.com/articles/analysis-what-blockchain-technology-means-artificial-intelligence-2017-12-07
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
94 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
[34] Ethereum Foundation. (2022). Ethereum Virtual 
Machine (EVM) [Online]. Available: 
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm/ 
[Accessed: 12 June 2022] 
[35] Q. Wang, R. Li, Q. Wang, and S. Chen. (2021). Non-
fungible token (NFT): Overview, evaluation, opportunities 
and challenges [Online]. Available: 
https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.07447 [Accessed: 21 
November 2021] 
[36] T. Min, H. Wang, Y. Guo, and W. Cai, “Blockchain 
games: A survey,” in 2019 IEEE Conference on Games 
(CoG), London, 2019, pp. 1-8. 
[37] Binance Academy. (2021). What Is Play-to-Earn and 
How to Cash Out? [Online]. Available: 
https://academy.binance.com/en/articles/what-is-
play-to-earn-and-how-to-cash-out [Accessed: 24 
November 2021] 
[38] T. Koffman. (2021). Play-To-Earn: The New Crypto 
Paradigm Redefining The Future Of Work [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/tatianakoffman/202
1/09/29/play-to-earn-the-new-crypto-paradigm-
redefining-the-future-of-work/ [Accessed: 24 
November 2021] 
[39] T. Wang. (2021). Axie Infinity Nears 2M Daily Active 
Users as Creator Raises $152M Series B [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2021/10/05
/axie-infinity-nears-2m-daily-active-users-as-
creator-raises-152m-series-
b/#:~:text=Play%2Dto%2Dearn%20game%20Axi
e,as%20high%20as%20%2433%20million 
[Accessed: 30 November 2021] 
[40] YugaTech. (2021). Axie Infinity Explained & How To 
Start! [Online]. Available: 
https://youtu.be/xKgV4V0aq7M [Accessed: 9 
March 2022] 
[41] Axie Infinity. (2021). Axie Infinity Shards - $AXS 
[Online]. Available: 
https://whitepaper.axieinfinity.com/axs [Accessed: 
9 March 2022] 
[42] M. Nystrom and J. Sun. (2022). Blockchains: Changing 
the Game [Online]. Available: 
https://messari.io/article/blockchains-changing-
the-game [Accessed: 6 April 2022] 
[43] V. Elliott. (2021). Some Axie Infinity players amassed 
fortunes — now the Philippine government wants its cut 
[Online]. Available: 
https://restofworld.org/2021/axie-players-are-
facing-taxes/ [Accessed: 9 March 2022] 
[44] K. Servando  and I.C. Sayson. (2021). This Video 
Game Is Turning the Pandemic Jobless Into Crypto Traders 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-
08-25/axie-infinity-how-game-is-turning-pandemic-
jobless-into-crypto-nft-traders [Accessed: 9 March 
2022] 
[45] Balthazar. (2022). Balthazar Community Insights Report 
– March 2022 [Online]. Available: 
https://bltzr.gg/balthazar-community-insights-
report-march-2022/ [Accessed: 18 March 2022] 
[46] L. Callon-Butler. (2021). Some Filipino Merchants Prefer 
Payment in Axie’s SLP. CoinDesk [Online]. Available: 
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/08/25/
some-filipino-merchants-prefer-payment-in-axies-
slp/ [Accessed: 9 March 2022] 
[47] G. Maala. (2021). Merchants Accepting Axie Infinity’s 
SLP as Payment in the Philippines [Online]. Available: 
https://www.yugatech.com/guides/axie-infinity-
slp-payment-merchants-stores-
philippines/#sthash.VtqfGaFn.dpbs [Accessed: 9 
March 2022] 
[48] World Wide Web Foundation. (2022). History of the 
Web [Online]. Available: 
https://webfoundation.org/about/vision/history-
of-the-web/ [Accessed: 9 April 2022]. 
[49] M. Luongo. (2021). Fighting for Web 3.0: Digital wallet 
wars are the new browser wars [Online]. Available: 
https://cointelegraph.com/news/fighting-for-web-
3-0-digital-wallet-wars-are-the-new-browser-wars 
[Accessed: 7 April 2022] 
[50] R. Rudman and R. Bruwer, “Defining Web 3.0: 
Opportunities and challenges,” The Electronic Library, 
vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 132–154, 2016. 
[51] E. Tekisalp. (2018). Understanding Web 3 — A User 
Controlled Internet [Online]. Available: 
https://blog.coinbase.com/understanding-web-3-a-
user-controlled-internet-a39c21cf83f3 [Accessed: 7 
April 2022] 
[52] Meta. (2020). Banning a Violent Network in the US 
[Online]. Available: 
https://about.fb.com/news/2020/06/banning-a-
violent-network-in-the-us/ [Accessed: 7 April 2022] 
[53] J. Alexander. (2020). YouTube bans Stefan Molyneux, 
David Duke, Richard Spencer, and more for hate speech 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/29/21307303/
youtube-bans-molyneux-duke-richard-spencer-
conduct-hate-speech [Accessed: 7 April 2022] 
[54] BBC. (2021). Twitter 'permanently suspends' Trump's 
account [Online]. Available: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-
55597840 [Accessed: 7 April 2022] 
[55] F.A. Alabdulwahhab, “Web 3.0: the decentralized 
web blockchain networks and protocol innovation,” 
in 2018 1st International Conference on Computer 
Applications & Information Security (ICCAIS), Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia, 2018, pp. 1-4. 
[56] H. Patel. (2022). What Is Web 3.0, And Why Is It An 
Important Technology For Business? [Online]. Available: 
https://www.tristatetechnology.com/blog/what-is-
web-3-0-and-why-is-it-an-important-technology-
for-business/ [Accessed: 8 April 2022] 
[57] Ethereum Foundation. (2022). WEB2 VS WEB3 
[Online]. Available: 
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/web2-
vs-web3/ [Accessed: 9 April 2022] 
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/evm/
https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.07447
https://academy.binance.com/en/articles/what-is-play-to-earn-and-how-to-cash-out
https://academy.binance.com/en/articles/what-is-play-to-earn-and-how-to-cash-out
https://www.forbes.com/sites/tatianakoffman/2021/09/29/play-to-earn-the-new-crypto-paradigm-redefining-the-future-of-work/
https://www.forbes.com/sites/tatianakoffman/2021/09/29/play-to-earn-the-new-crypto-paradigm-redefining-the-future-of-work/
https://www.forbes.com/sites/tatianakoffman/2021/09/29/play-to-earn-the-new-crypto-paradigm-redefining-the-future-of-work/
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2021/10/05/axie-infinity-nears-2m-daily-active-users-as-creator-raises-152m-series-b/%23:~:text=Play-to-earn%20game%20Axie,as%20high%20as%20%2433%20million
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2021/10/05/axie-infinity-nears-2m-daily-active-users-as-creator-raises-152m-series-b/%23:~:text=Play-to-earn%20game%20Axie,as%20high%20as%20%2433%20million
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2021/10/05/axie-infinity-nears-2m-daily-active-users-as-creator-raises-152m-series-b/%23:~:text=Play-to-earn%20game%20Axie,as%20high%20as%20%2433%20million
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2021/10/05/axie-infinity-nears-2m-daily-active-users-as-creator-raises-152m-series-b/%23:~:text=Play-to-earn%20game%20Axie,as%20high%20as%20%2433%20million
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2021/10/05/axie-infinity-nears-2m-daily-active-users-as-creator-raises-152m-series-b/%23:~:text=Play-to-earn%20game%20Axie,as%20high%20as%20%2433%20million
https://youtu.be/xKgV4V0aq7M
https://whitepaper.axieinfinity.com/axs
https://messari.io/article/blockchains-changing-the-game
https://messari.io/article/blockchains-changing-the-game
https://restofworld.org/2021/axie-players-are-facing-taxes/
https://restofworld.org/2021/axie-players-are-facing-taxes/
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-08-25/axie-infinity-how-game-is-turning-pandemic-jobless-into-crypto-nft-traders
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-08-25/axie-infinity-how-game-is-turning-pandemic-jobless-into-crypto-nft-traders
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-08-25/axie-infinity-how-game-is-turning-pandemic-jobless-into-crypto-nft-traders
https://bltzr.gg/balthazar-community-insights-report-march-2022/
https://bltzr.gg/balthazar-community-insights-report-march-2022/
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/08/25/some-filipino-merchants-prefer-payment-in-axies-slp/
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/08/25/some-filipino-merchants-prefer-payment-in-axies-slp/
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/08/25/some-filipino-merchants-prefer-payment-in-axies-slp/
https://www.yugatech.com/guides/axie-infinity-slp-payment-merchants-stores-philippines/#sthash.VtqfGaFn.dpbs
https://www.yugatech.com/guides/axie-infinity-slp-payment-merchants-stores-philippines/#sthash.VtqfGaFn.dpbs
https://www.yugatech.com/guides/axie-infinity-slp-payment-merchants-stores-philippines/#sthash.VtqfGaFn.dpbs
https://webfoundation.org/about/vision/history-of-the-web/
https://webfoundation.org/about/vision/history-of-the-web/
https://cointelegraph.com/news/fighting-for-web-3-0-digital-wallet-wars-are-the-new-browser-wars
https://cointelegraph.com/news/fighting-for-web-3-0-digital-wallet-wars-are-the-new-browser-wars
https://blog.coinbase.com/understanding-web-3-a-user-controlled-internet-a39c21cf83f3
https://blog.coinbase.com/understanding-web-3-a-user-controlled-internet-a39c21cf83f3
https://about.fb.com/news/2020/06/banning-a-violent-network-in-the-us/
https://about.fb.com/news/2020/06/banning-a-violent-network-in-the-us/
https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/29/21307303/youtube-bans-molyneux-duke-richard-spencer-conduct-hate-speech
https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/29/21307303/youtube-bans-molyneux-duke-richard-spencer-conduct-hate-speech
https://www.theverge.com/2020/6/29/21307303/youtube-bans-molyneux-duke-richard-spencer-conduct-hate-speech
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-55597840
https://www.bbc.com/news/world-us-canada-55597840
https://www.tristatetechnology.com/blog/what-is-web-3-0-and-why-is-it-an-important-technology-for-business/
https://www.tristatetechnology.com/blog/what-is-web-3-0-and-why-is-it-an-important-technology-for-business/
https://www.tristatetechnology.com/blog/what-is-web-3-0-and-why-is-it-an-important-technology-for-business/
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/web2-vs-web3/
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/web2-vs-web3/
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 95 
[58] BlockchainHub. (2019). Tokenized Networks: Web3, the 
Stateful Web [Online]. Available: 
https://blockchainhub.net/web3-decentralized-
web/ [Accessed: 9 April 2022] 
[59] JPMorgan. (2022). Opportunities in the metaverse: How 
businesses can explore the metaverse and navigate the hype vs. 
reality [Online]. Available: 
https://www.jpmorgan.com/ [Accessed: 9 April 
2022] 
[60] A. Davis, J. D. Murphy, D. Owens, D. Khazanchi, 
and I. Zigurs, “Avatars, people, and virtual worlds: 
Foundations for research in metaverses,” Journal of 
the Association for Information Systems, vol 10, no 2, pp. 
90-117, 2009. 
[61] B. Marr. (2021). The Metaverse Explained With 
Examples [Online]. Available: 
https://bernardmarr.com/the-metaverse-explained-
with-examples/ [Accessed: 9 April 2022] 
[62] Meta. (2021). Introducing Meta: A Social Technology 
Company [Online]. Available: 
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/10/facebook-
company-is-now-meta/ [Accessed: 10 April 2022] 
[63] Meta. (2021). Building the Metaverse Responsibly [Online]. 
Available: 
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/09/building-the-
metaverse-responsibly/ [Accessed: 10 April 2022] 
[64] Newzoo. (2021). Newzoo: Introduction to the Metaverse 
Report [Online]. Available: 
https://newzoo.com/insights/trend-
reports/newzoo-intro-to-the-metaverse-report-
2021-free-version/ [Accessed: 9 April 2022] 
[65] Grand View Research. (2022). Metaverse Market Worth 
$678.8 Billion By 2030 | CAGR: 39.4% [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-
analysis/metaverse-market-report [Accessed: 10 
April 2022] 
[66] The Sandbox. (2022). The Sandbox: Home [Online]. 
Available: https://www.sandbox.game/en/ 
[Accessed: 10 April 2022] 
[67] E. Gkritsi. (2022). HSBC Enters the Metaverse Through 
Partnership With The Sandbox [Online]. Available: 
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/16
/hsbc-enters-the-metaverse-through-partnership-
with-the-sandbox/ [Accessed: 10 April 2022] 
[68] B. Irwin. (2022). Gucci Buys Land in Ethereum Game The 
Sandbox to Create Metaverse Experiences [Online]. 
Available: https://decrypt.co/92566/gucci-buys-
land-ethereum-the-sandbox-metaverse-experiences 
[Accessed: 10 April 2022] 
[69] O. Godbole. (2021). Metaverse Platform The Sandbox’s 
SAND Token Surges 25% After Adidas Teases 
Partnership [Online]. Available: 
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/11/24/
metaverse-platform-the-sandboxs-sand-token-
surges-25-after-adidas-teases-of-partnership/ 
[Accessed: 10 April 2022] 
[70] SCB. (2022). SCB 10X taps into the Metaverse - SCB 
10X will be launching its first headquarter in The Sandbox. 
SCB 10X will also host a virtual summit and workshop 
featuring global Metaverse leaders. The event aims to highlight 
creative capabilities in the Metaverse and help foster a stronger 
Metaverse community and expand ecosystem globally [Press 
release]. Available: 
https://www.scb.co.th/en/about-us/news/mar-
2022/scb-10x-metaverse.html [Accessed: 10 April 
2022] 
[71] SCB 10X. (2022). SCB 10X HEADQUARTERS IN 
METAVERSE [Online]. Available: 
https://youtu.be/_mTyyzcgJss [Accessed: 10 April 
2022] 
[72] J. Al-Jaroodi and N. Mohamed, “Blockchain in 
industries: A survey,” IEEE, vol. 7, pp. 36500-36515, 
2019. 
[73] L. Besançon, C. F. Da Silva, and P. Ghodous, 
“Towards blockchain interoperability: Improving 
video games data exchange,” in 2019 IEEE 
International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency 
(ICBC), Seoul, Korea, 2019, pp. 81-85. 
[74] BGA. (2021). The BGA 2021 Member Survey & Report 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.blockchaingamealliance.org/bga-
2021-member-survey-report/ [Accessed: 20 April 
2022] 
[75] BITKRAFT. (2021). Gaming: A Potential Driver of 
Blockchain Adoption [Online]. Available: 
https://www.bitkraft.vc/gaming-a-potential-driver-
of-blockchain-adoption/ [Accessed: 20 April 2022] 
[76] S. Kalra, R. Sanghi, and M. Dhawan, “Blockchain-
based real-time cheat prevention and robustness for 
multi-player online games,” in Proceedings of the 14th 
International Conference on Emerging Networking 
Experiments and Technologies, Heraklion, Greece, 2018, 
pp. 178-190. 
[77] K. Nha. (2021). Blockchain game development booms as 
Vietnamese gamers make their play [Online]. Available: 
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/industries/
blockchain-game-development-booms-as-
vietnamese-gamers-make-their-play-4384709.html 
[Accessed: 20 April 2022] 
[78] A. Pfeiffer, S. Kriglstein,  and T. Wernbacher, 
“Blockchain technologies and games: A proper 
match?,” in International Conference on the Foundations of 
Digital Games, 2020, pp. 1-4. 
[79] S. McKinney, A.B. Caiazza, M.A. Sutanto Shen, J. 
Chan, W. Andrews, N. Antonikova,  and W. Shaw. 
(2022). Video Game NFTs: Top Legal Considerations for 
Developers [Online]. Available: 
https://www.wsgr.com/en/insights/video-game-
nfts-top-legal-considerations-for-developers.html 
[Accessed: 27 April 2022]. 
[80] Mozuch, M. (2021). Blockchain Games Twist the 
Fundamentals of Online Gaming [Online]. Available: 
https://www.inverse.com/gaming/blockchain-
games-online-gaming [Accessed: 20 April 2022] 
[81] J. Esteves, “A benefits realisation road‐map 
framework for ERP usage in small and medium‐
https://blockchainhub.net/web3-decentralized-web/
https://blockchainhub.net/web3-decentralized-web/
https://www.jpmorgan.com/
https://bernardmarr.com/the-metaverse-explained-with-examples/
https://bernardmarr.com/the-metaverse-explained-with-examples/
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/10/facebook-company-is-now-meta/
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/10/facebook-company-is-now-meta/
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/09/building-the-metaverse-responsibly/
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/09/building-the-metaverse-responsibly/
https://newzoo.com/insights/trend-reports/newzoo-intro-to-the-metaverse-report-2021-free-version/
https://newzoo.com/insights/trend-reports/newzoo-intro-to-the-metaverse-report-2021-free-version/
https://newzoo.com/insights/trend-reports/newzoo-intro-to-the-metaverse-report-2021-free-version/
https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/metaverse-market-report
https://www.grandviewresearch.com/industry-analysis/metaverse-market-report
https://www.sandbox.game/en/
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/16/hsbc-enters-the-metaverse-through-partnership-with-the-sandbox/
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/16/hsbc-enters-the-metaverse-through-partnership-with-the-sandbox/
https://www.coindesk.com/business/2022/03/16/hsbc-enters-the-metaverse-through-partnership-with-the-sandbox/
https://decrypt.co/92566/gucci-buys-land-ethereum-the-sandbox-metaverse-experiences
https://decrypt.co/92566/gucci-buys-land-ethereum-the-sandbox-metaverse-experiences
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/11/24/metaverse-platform-the-sandboxs-sand-token-surges-25-after-adidas-teases-of-partnership/
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/11/24/metaverse-platform-the-sandboxs-sand-token-surges-25-after-adidas-teases-of-partnership/
https://www.coindesk.com/markets/2021/11/24/metaverse-platform-the-sandboxs-sand-token-surges-25-after-adidas-teases-of-partnership/
https://www.scb.co.th/en/about-us/news/mar-2022/scb-10x-metaverse.html
https://www.scb.co.th/en/about-us/news/mar-2022/scb-10x-metaverse.html
https://youtu.be/_mTyyzcgJss
https://www.blockchaingamealliance.org/bga-2021-member-survey-report/
https://www.blockchaingamealliance.org/bga-2021-member-survey-report/
https://www.bitkraft.vc/gaming-a-potential-driver-of-blockchain-adoption/
https://www.bitkraft.vc/gaming-a-potential-driver-of-blockchain-adoption/
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/industries/blockchain-game-development-booms-as-vietnamese-gamers-make-their-play-4384709.html
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/industries/blockchain-game-development-booms-as-vietnamese-gamers-make-their-play-4384709.html
https://e.vnexpress.net/news/business/industries/blockchain-game-development-booms-as-vietnamese-gamers-make-their-play-4384709.html
https://www.wsgr.com/en/insights/video-game-nfts-top-legal-considerations-for-developers.html
https://www.wsgr.com/en/insights/video-game-nfts-top-legal-considerations-for-developers.html
https://www.inverse.com/gaming/blockchain-games-online-gaming
https://www.inverse.com/gaming/blockchain-games-online-gaming
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
96 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
sized enterprises,” Journal of Enterprise Information 
Management, vol. 22 no. 1-2, pp. 25-35, 2009. 
[82] L. Staehr, G. Shanks, and P.B. Seddon, “An 
explanatory framework for achieving business 
benefits from ERP systems,” Journal of the Association 
for Information Systems, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 424-465, 
2012. 
[83] S. Fosso Wamba, J.R. Kala Kamdjoug, R. Epie 
Bawack, and J. G. Keogh, “Bitcoin, Blockchain and 
Fintech: a systematic review and case studies in the 
supply chain,” Production Planning & Control, vol. 31, 
no, 2-3, pp. 115-142, 2020. 
[84] L. Tornatzky and M. Fleischer, The Process of Technology 
Innovation. Lexington, MA: Lexington Books, 1990. 
[85] J. Baker, “The technology–organization–
environment framework,” in Information Systems 
Theory. Integrated Series in Information Systems. New York: 
Springer, 2012, pp. 231-245. 
[86] S. Chen, X. Liu, J. Yan, G. Hu, and Y. Shi, “Processes, 
benefits, and challenges for adoption of blockchain 
technologies in food supply chains: A thematic 
analysis,” Information Systems and e-Business Management, 
pp. 1-27, 2020. 
[87] F. R. Batubara, J. Ubacht, and M. Janssen, 
“Challenges of blockchain technology adoption for 
e-government: A systematic literature review,” 
in Proceedings of the 19th Annual International Conference 
on Digital Government Research: Governance in the Data 
Age, Delft, The Netherlands, 2018, pp. 1-9. 
[88] S. Albrecht, S. Reichert, J. Schmid, J. Strüker, D. 
Neumann, and G. Fridgen, “Dynamics of blockchain 
implementation-a case study from the energy sector,” 
in Proceedings of the 51st Hawaii International Conference 
on System Sciences, Hawaii, 2018, pp. 3527-3536. 
[89] E. J. Henley and H. Kumamoto, Probabilistic Risk 
Assessment and Management for Engineers and Scientists, 
2nd ed. New Jersey: IEEE Press, 1996. 
[90] K. D. Sharma and S. Srivastava, “Failure mode and 
effect analysis (FMEA) implementation: A literature 
review,” J Adv Res Aeronaut Space Sci, vol. 5, no. 1-2, 
pp. 1-17, 2018. 
[91] M. Shafiee and F. Dinmohammadi, “An FMEA-
based risk assessment approach for wind turbine 
systems: A comparative study of onshore and 
offshore,” Energies, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 619-642, 2014. 
[92] H. C. Liu, J.X. You, X. F. Ding, and Q. Su, 
“Improving risk evaluation in FMEA with a hybrid 
multiple criteria decision making 
method,” International Journal of Quality & Reliability 
Management, vol. 32, no. 7, pp. 763-782, 2015. 
[93] A. Pillay and J. Wang, “Modified failure mode and 
effects analysis using approximate 
reasoning,” Reliability Engineering & System Safety, vol. 
79, no. 1, pp. 69-85, 2003. 
[94] T. L. Saaty, “A scaling method for priorities in 
hierarchical structures,” Journal of Mathematical 
Psychology, vol. 15, no. 3, pp. 234-281, 1977. 
[95] O. S. Vaidya and S. Kumar, “Analytic hierarchy 
process: An overview of applications,” European 
Journal of Operational Research, vol. 169, no. 1, pp. 1-29, 
2006. 
[96] T. L. Saaty, “How to make a decision: The analytic 
hierarchy process,” European Journal of Operational 
Research, vol. 48, no. 1, pp. 9-26, 1990. 
[97] T. L. Saaty, “Decision-making with the AHP: Why is 
the principal eigenvector necessary,” European Journal 
of Operational Research, vol. 145, no. 1, pp. 85-91, 2003. 
[98] J. M. Hummel, J. F. Bridges, and M. J. IJzerman, 
“Group decision making with the analytic hierarchy 
process in benefit-risk assessment: a tutorial,” The 
Patient-Patient-Centered Outcomes Research, vol. 7, no. 2, 
pp. 129-140, 2014. 
[99] A. Ishizaka and M. Lusti, “How to derive priorities 
in AHP: A comparative study,” Central European 
Journal of Operations Research, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 387-
400, 2006. 
[100] K. M. A. S. Al-Harbi, “Application of the AHP in 
project management,” International Journal of Project 
Management, vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 19-27, 2001. 
[101] A. Grosfeld-Nir, B. Ronen, and N. Kozlovsky, “The 
Pareto managerial principle: When does it 
apply?,” International Journal of Production Research, vol. 
45, no. 10, pp. 2317-2325, 2007. 
[102] H. Weihrich, “The TOWS matrix—A tool for 
situational analysis,” Long Range Planning, vol. 15, no. 
2, pp. 54-66, 1982. 
[103] R. G. Dyson, “Strategic development and SWOT 
analysis at the University of Warwick,” European 
Journal of Operational Research, vol. 152, no. 3, pp. 631-
640, 2004. 
[104] T. Tongskulroongruang and P. Chutima, “Creation a 
strategic plan for supporting digital transformation,” 
in Proceedings of the 2020 2nd International Conference on 
Management Science and Industrial Engineering, April 
2020, pp. 110-114. 
[105] C. Musikthong and P. Chutima, “The development 
of machineries and technologies to support digital 
transformation,” in Proceedings of the 2020 2nd 
International Conference on Management Science and 
Industrial Engineering, April 2020, pp. 140-144. 
[106] E. Can and H. Erbiyik, “Determination of the risks 
that are emerged from the use of aerial photographs 
in the mapping activities for landslide movements by 
FMEA and Pareto analysis methods and suggested 
solutions,” Procedia engineering, vol. 161, pp. 850-858, 
2016. 
[107] M. Held and R. Brönnimann, “Safe cell, safe battery? 
Battery fire investigation using FMEA, FTA and 
practical experiments,” Microelectronics Reliability, vol. 
64, pp. 705-710, 2016. 
[108] A. Sutrisno, H. M. Kwon, I. Gunawan, S. Eldridge, 
and T. R. Lee, “Integrating SWOT analysis into the 
FMEA methodology to improve corrective action 
decision making,” International Journal of Productivity 
and Quality Management, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 104-126, 
2016. 
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 97 
[109] G. R. White, “Future applications of blockchain in 
business and management: A Delphi study,” Strategic 
Change, vol. 26, no. 5, pp. 439-451, 2017. 
[110] F. Rasty, S. H. Mirghafoori, S. Saeida Ardekani, and 
P. Ajdari, “Trust barriers to online shopping: 
Investigating and prioritizing trust barriers in an 
intuitionistic fuzzy environment,” International Journal 
of Consumer Studies, vol. 45, no. 5, pp. 1030-1046, 2021. 
[111] A. Alkhalil, R. Sahandi, and D. John, “An exploration 
of the determinants for decision to migrate existing 
resources to cloud computing using an integrated 
TOE-DOI model,” Journal of Cloud Computing, vol. 6, 
no. 1, pp. 1-20, 2017. 
[112] S. Tripopsakul, “Social media adoption as a business 
platform: an integrated TAM-TOE 
framework,” Polish Journal of Management Studies, vol. 
18, no. 2, pp. 350-362, 2018. 
[113] X. J. Jiang and X.F. Liu, “Cryptokitties transaction 
network analysis: The rise and fall of the first 
blockchain game mania,” Frontiers in Physics, vol. 9, 
p.57, 2021. 
[114] T. Saheb and F. H. Mamaghani, “Exploring the 
barriers and organizational values of blockchain 
adoption in the banking industry,” The Journal of High 
Technology Management Research, vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 1-18, 
2021. 
[115] Y. Wang, M. Singgih, J. Wang, and M. Rit, “Making 
sense of blockchain technology: How will it 
transform supply chains?,” International Journal of 
Production Economics, vol. 211, pp. 221-236, 2019. 
[116] J. Winkler and R. Moser, “Biases in future-oriented 
Delphi studies: A cognitive perspective,” Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, vol. 105, pp. 63-76, 2016. 
[117] M. Abdelgawad and A. R. Fayek, “Risk management 
in the construction industry using combined fuzzy 
FMEA and fuzzy AHP,” Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, vol. 136, no. 9, pp. 1028-
1036, 2010. 
[118] W. Craig. (2018). The Nature Of Leadership In A Flat 
Organization [Online]. Available: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/williamcraig/2018/
10/23/the-nature-of-leadership-in-a-flat-
organization/?sh=3e9bfa5d5fe1 [Accessed: 30 June 
2022] 
[119] R. Aslani, H. Feili, and H. Javanshir, “A hybrid of 
fuzzy FMEA-AHP to determine factors affecting 
alternator failure causes,” Management Science Letters, 
vol. 4, no. 9, pp. 1981-1984, 2014. 
[120] T. Clohessy and T. Acton, “Investigating the 
influence of organizational factors on blockchain 
adoption: An innovation theory perspective,” 
Industrial Management & Data Systems, vol. 119, no. 7, 
pp. 1721-1758, 2019. 
[121] S. De Burca, B. Fynes, and D. Marshall, “Strategic 
technology adoption: extending ERP across the 
supply chain,” Journal of Enterprise Information 
Management, vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 427-440, 2005. 
[122] A. Chandani, M. Mehta, A. Mall, and V. Khokhar,  
“Employee engagement: A review paper on factors 
affecting employee engagement,” Indian Journal of 
Science and Technology, vol. 9, no. 15, pp. 1-7, 2016. 
[123] O. Ali, M. Ally, and Y. Dwivedi, “The state of play 
of blockchain technology in the financial services 
sector: A systematic literature review,” International 
Journal of Information Management, vol. 54, pp. 1-19, 
2020. 
[124] K. Fanning and D.P. Centers, “Blockchain and its 
coming impact on financial services,” Journal of 
Corporate Accounting & Finance, vol. 27, no. 5, pp. 53-
57, 2016. 
[125] BOT. (2021). Guideline for Blockchain Technology 
Adoption in Financial Services [Online]. Available: 
https://www.bot.or.th/English/PressandSpeeches
/Press/2021/Pages/n5264.aspx [Accessed: 27 May 
2022] 
[126] MPG. (2022). BOI Looking to Incentivize the Use of 
Blockchain in Thailand [Online]. Available: 
https://mahanakornpartners.com/boi-looking-to-
incentivize-the-use-of-blockchain-in-thailand/ 
[Accessed: 27 May 2022] 
[127] J. Puente, R. Pino, P. Priore, and D. de la Fuente, “A 
decision support system for applying failure mode 
and effects analysis,” International Journal of Quality & 
Reliability Management, vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 137-150, 
2002. 
[128] T. H. Varzakas and I. S. Arvanitoyannis, 
“Application of Failure Mode and Effect Analysis 
(FMEA), cause and effect analysis, and Pareto 
diagram in conjunction with HACCP to a corn curl 
manufacturing plant,” Critical Reviews in Food Science 
and Nutrition, vol. 47, no. 4, pp. 363-387, 2007. 
[129] LeewayHertz. (2022). Blockchain in Payments—
Transforming the Payments Industry [Online]. Available: 
https://www.leewayhertz.com/blockchain-in-
payments/ [Accessed: 1 June 2022] 
[130] S. L. Vargo, P. P. Maglio, and M. A. Akaka, “On 
value and value co-creation: A service systems and 
service logic perspective,” European Management 
Journal, vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 145-152, 2008. 
[131] Sotheby. (2021). NFTs: Redefining Digital Ownership 
and Scarcity [Online]. Available: 
https://www.sothebys.com/en/articles/nfts-
redefining-digital-ownership-and-scarcity [Accessed: 
1 June 2022] 
[132] R. Napoli. (2022). How Blockchain Could Revolutionize 
Cybersecurity [Online]. Available: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/
2022/03/04/how-blockchain-could-revolutionize-
cybersecurity/?sh=7611e9e43a41 [Accessed: 3 June 
2022] 
[133] Asia Blockchain Review. (2019). Adopting Blockchain 
Technology in the Gaming Industry [Online]. Available: 
https://www.asiablockchainreview.com/adopting-
blockchain-technology-in-the-gaming-industry/ 
[Accessed: 3 June 2022] 
[134] A. Carvalho, “Bringing transparency and 
trustworthiness to loot boxes with blockchain and 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/williamcraig/2018/10/23/the-nature-of-leadership-in-a-flat-organization/?sh=3e9bfa5d5fe1
https://www.forbes.com/sites/williamcraig/2018/10/23/the-nature-of-leadership-in-a-flat-organization/?sh=3e9bfa5d5fe1
https://www.forbes.com/sites/williamcraig/2018/10/23/the-nature-of-leadership-in-a-flat-organization/?sh=3e9bfa5d5fe1
https://www.bot.or.th/English/PressandSpeeches/Press/2021/Pages/n5264.aspx
https://www.bot.or.th/English/PressandSpeeches/Press/2021/Pages/n5264.aspx
https://mahanakornpartners.com/boi-looking-to-incentivize-the-use-of-blockchain-in-thailand/
https://mahanakornpartners.com/boi-looking-to-incentivize-the-use-of-blockchain-in-thailand/
https://www.leewayhertz.com/blockchain-in-payments/
https://www.leewayhertz.com/blockchain-in-payments/
https://www.sothebys.com/en/articles/nfts-redefining-digital-ownership-and-scarcity
https://www.sothebys.com/en/articles/nfts-redefining-digital-ownership-and-scarcity
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/03/04/how-blockchain-could-revolutionize-cybersecurity/?sh=7611e9e43a41
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/03/04/how-blockchain-could-revolutionize-cybersecurity/?sh=7611e9e43a41
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2022/03/04/how-blockchain-could-revolutionize-cybersecurity/?sh=7611e9e43a41
https://www.asiablockchainreview.com/adopting-blockchain-technology-in-the-gaming-industry/
https://www.asiablockchainreview.com/adopting-blockchain-technology-in-the-gaming-industry/
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
98 ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 
smart contracts,” Decision Support Systems, vol. 144, pp. 
1-13, 2021. 
[135] K. Allsop. (2022). New FIFA 22 Loot Boxes Consumer 
Report Cites “Dark Patterns” [Online]. Available: 
https://www.pcgamesn.com/fifa-22/loot-boxes-
ncc-report [Accessed: 13 June 2022] 
[136] M. Gardner. (2021). The Gaming Industry’s Loot Box 
Problem Is About To Get Worse [Online]. Available: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattgardner1/2021
/03/11/the-gaming-industrys-loot-box-problem-is-
going-to-get-worse/?sh=685667e54425 [Accessed: 3 
June 2022] 
[137] D. J. Teece, G. Pisano, and A. Shuen, “Dynamic 
capabilities and strategic management,” Strategic 
Management Journal, vol. 18, no. 7, pp. 509-533, 1997. 
[138] O. Carding. (2020). 5 Ways Blockchain Will Transform 
the Gaming Industry [Online]. Available: 
https://coinjournal.net/news/guest-post-5-ways-
blockchain-will-transform-the-gaming-industry/ 
[Accessed: 3 June 2022] 
[139] B. Knight and J. Edwards. (2021). How to sell Smooth 
Love Potion (SLP) [Online]. Available: 
https://www.finder.com/ph/how-to-sell-slp 
[Accessed: 4 June 2022] 
[140] MARBLEX. (2022). MARBLEX White Paper 
[Online]. Available: https://www.marblex.io/en/ 
[Accessed: 4 June 2022] 
[141] L. Goasduff. (2019). Gartner Says Blockchain 
Deployments Across Financial Services Ecosystems Are At 
Least Three Years Away [Online]. Available: 
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-
releases/09-16-2019-gartner-says-blockchain-
deployments-across-financial-services-ecosystems-
are-at-least-three-years-away [Accessed: 24 March 
2022] 
[142] M. Könneker. (2022). Interoperability: The challenge for 
blockchain [Online]. Available: 
https://www.blockchance.eu/interoperability-the-
challenge-for-blockchain/ [Accessed: 3 June 2022] 
[143] S. Sinclair. (2022). Enjin Launches Game Development 
Platform on Ethereum [Online]. Available: 
https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2020/02/18/enji
n-launches-game-development-platform-on-
ethereum/ [Accessed: 4 June 2022] 
[144] M. Berg. (2022). Ankr Launches Second Gaming SDK: 
Expanding Support for Unreal Engine [Online]. Available: 
https://medium.com/ankr-network/ankr-launches-
second-gaming-sdk-expanding-support-for-unreal-
engine-c276c97ef2ae [Accessed: 3 June 2022] 
[145] Y. Ketelers. (2021). The Complete Toolset for Blockchain 
Integration in Games with Arkane’s Unity Plugin [Online]. 
Available: https://blog.venly.io/the-complete-
toolset-for-blockchain-integration-in-games-with-
arkanes-unity-plugin-c8e397bbf9a1 [Accessed: 4 
June 2022] 
[146] E. Glover. (2022). When Are Play-to-Earn Games Going 
to Get Good? [Online]. Available: 
https://builtin.com/design-ux/designing-play-to-
earn [Accessed: 4 June 2022] 
[147] W. Luton. (2022). Tokenomics: How To Design 
Economies For Crypto Games [Online]. Available: 
https://departmentofplay.net/tokenomics-how-to-
design-economies-for-crypto-games/ [Accessed: 4 
June 2022] 
[148] L. Conway. (2022). What Is Illuvium (ILV)? Learn 
About the Upcoming NFT Game [Online]. Available: 
https://blockworks.co/everything-you-need-to-
know-about-illuvium/ [Accessed: 4 June 2022] 
[149] B. Echter. (2021). Mark your ‘Star Atlas:’ Everything you 
need to know about the upcoming AAA blockchain game 
[Online]. Available: https://solana.com/news/star-
atlas-crypto-about-release-date [Accessed: 4 June 
2022] 
[150] M. Prusso. (2021). League Of Ancients To Offer The 
World’s First Free-To-Earn NFT MOBA Game [Online]. 
Available: https://techbullion.com/league-of-
ancients-to-offer-the-worlds-first-free-to-earn-nft-
moba-game/ [Accessed: 4 June 2022] 
[151] S. Zbrodoff, Pilot Projects—Making Innovations and New 
Concepts Fly. Newtown Square, PA: Project 
Management Institute, 2012. 
[152] W. Smith. (2022). Overcoming the Ethereum Blockchain 
Trilemma [Online]. Available: 
https://www.gmw3.com/2022/02/overcoming-
the-ethereum-blockchain-trilemma/ [Accessed: 5 
June 2022] 
[153] R. Hoogendoorn. (2020). Blockchain Games Victim of 
Ethereum Gas Prices [Online]. Available: 
https://medium.com/play-to-earn/blockchain-
games-victim-of-ethereum-gas-prices-
e91b62159034 [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[154] Ethereum Foundation. (2022). Upgrading Ethereum to 
radical new heights [Online]. Available: 
https://ethereum.org/en/upgrades/ [Accessed: 5 
June 2022] 
[155] Cryptopedia. (2022). The Blockchain Trilemma: Fast, 
Secure, and Scalable Networks [Online]. Available: 
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-
trilemma-decentralization-scalability-
definition#section-solving-the-blockchain-
trilemma-layer-2 [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[156] M.V. Rijmenam. (2019). A Distributed Future: Where 
Blockchain Technology Meets Organisation Design and 
Decision-making [Online]. Available: 
https://www.thedigitalspeaker.com/blockchain-
organisation-design-decision-making/ [Accessed: 5 
June 2022] 
[157] M. Dion. (2022). Gaming DAOs: A New Way of 
Coordinating Gaming Communities [Online]. Available: 
https://naavik.co/deep-dives/gaming-daos 
[Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[158] E. Law. (2021). World of Warcraft Community Council is 
Now Live [Online]. Available: 
https://gamerant.com/world-of-warcraft-
community-council-live/ [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[159] P. Jha. (2022). Thailand reportedly exempts 7% crypto tax 
for traders on authorized exchanges [Online]. Available: 
https://cointelegraph.com/news/thailand-
https://www.pcgamesn.com/fifa-22/loot-boxes-ncc-report
https://www.pcgamesn.com/fifa-22/loot-boxes-ncc-report
https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattgardner1/2021/03/11/the-gaming-industrys-loot-box-problem-is-going-to-get-worse/?sh=685667e54425
https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattgardner1/2021/03/11/the-gaming-industrys-loot-box-problem-is-going-to-get-worse/?sh=685667e54425
https://www.forbes.com/sites/mattgardner1/2021/03/11/the-gaming-industrys-loot-box-problem-is-going-to-get-worse/?sh=685667e54425
https://coinjournal.net/news/guest-post-5-ways-blockchain-will-transform-the-gaming-industry/
https://coinjournal.net/news/guest-post-5-ways-blockchain-will-transform-the-gaming-industry/
https://www.finder.com/ph/how-to-sell-slp
https://www.marblex.io/en/
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/09-16-2019-gartner-says-blockchain-deployments-across-financial-services-ecosystems-are-at-least-three-years-away
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/09-16-2019-gartner-says-blockchain-deployments-across-financial-services-ecosystems-are-at-least-three-years-away
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/09-16-2019-gartner-says-blockchain-deployments-across-financial-services-ecosystems-are-at-least-three-years-away
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/09-16-2019-gartner-says-blockchain-deployments-across-financial-services-ecosystems-are-at-least-three-years-away
https://www.blockchance.eu/interoperability-the-challenge-for-blockchain/
https://www.blockchance.eu/interoperability-the-challenge-for-blockchain/
https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2020/02/18/enjin-launches-game-development-platform-on-ethereum/
https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2020/02/18/enjin-launches-game-development-platform-on-ethereum/
https://www.coindesk.com/tech/2020/02/18/enjin-launches-game-development-platform-on-ethereum/
https://medium.com/ankr-network/ankr-launches-second-gaming-sdk-expanding-support-for-unreal-engine-c276c97ef2ae
https://medium.com/ankr-network/ankr-launches-second-gaming-sdk-expanding-support-for-unreal-engine-c276c97ef2ae
https://medium.com/ankr-network/ankr-launches-second-gaming-sdk-expanding-support-for-unreal-engine-c276c97ef2ae
https://blog.venly.io/the-complete-toolset-for-blockchain-integration-in-games-with-arkanes-unity-plugin-c8e397bbf9a1
https://blog.venly.io/the-complete-toolset-for-blockchain-integration-in-games-with-arkanes-unity-plugin-c8e397bbf9a1
https://blog.venly.io/the-complete-toolset-for-blockchain-integration-in-games-with-arkanes-unity-plugin-c8e397bbf9a1
https://builtin.com/design-ux/designing-play-to-earn
https://builtin.com/design-ux/designing-play-to-earn
https://departmentofplay.net/tokenomics-how-to-design-economies-for-crypto-games/
https://departmentofplay.net/tokenomics-how-to-design-economies-for-crypto-games/
https://blockworks.co/everything-you-need-to-know-about-illuvium/
https://blockworks.co/everything-you-need-to-know-about-illuvium/
https://solana.com/news/star-atlas-crypto-about-release-date
https://solana.com/news/star-atlas-crypto-about-release-date
https://techbullion.com/league-of-ancients-to-offer-the-worlds-first-free-to-earn-nft-moba-game/
https://techbullion.com/league-of-ancients-to-offer-the-worlds-first-free-to-earn-nft-moba-game/
https://techbullion.com/league-of-ancients-to-offer-the-worlds-first-free-to-earn-nft-moba-game/
https://www.gmw3.com/2022/02/overcoming-the-ethereum-blockchain-trilemma/
https://www.gmw3.com/2022/02/overcoming-the-ethereum-blockchain-trilemma/
https://medium.com/play-to-earn/blockchain-games-victim-of-ethereum-gas-prices-e91b62159034
https://medium.com/play-to-earn/blockchain-games-victim-of-ethereum-gas-prices-e91b62159034
https://medium.com/play-to-earn/blockchain-games-victim-of-ethereum-gas-prices-e91b62159034
https://ethereum.org/en/upgrades/
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-trilemma-decentralization-scalability-definition#section-solving-the-blockchain-trilemma-layer-2
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-trilemma-decentralization-scalability-definition#section-solving-the-blockchain-trilemma-layer-2
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-trilemma-decentralization-scalability-definition#section-solving-the-blockchain-trilemma-layer-2
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/blockchain-trilemma-decentralization-scalability-definition#section-solving-the-blockchain-trilemma-layer-2
https://www.thedigitalspeaker.com/blockchain-organisation-design-decision-making/
https://www.thedigitalspeaker.com/blockchain-organisation-design-decision-making/
https://naavik.co/deep-dives/gaming-daos
https://gamerant.com/world-of-warcraft-community-council-live/
https://gamerant.com/world-of-warcraft-community-council-live/
https://cointelegraph.com/news/thailand-reportedly-exempts-7-crypto-tax-for-traders-on-authorized-exchanges
DOI:10.4186/ej.2022.26.11.55 
ENGINEERING JOURNAL Volume 26 Issue 11, ISSN 0125-8281 (https://engj.org/) 99 
reportedly-exempts-7-crypto-tax-for-traders-on-
authorized-exchanges [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[160] N. Polkuamdee and D. Chudasri. (2021). Industry 
urges rethink on token ban [Online]. Available: 
https://www.bangkokpost.com/business/2132411
/industry-urges-rethink-on-token-ban [Accessed: 5 
June 2021] 
[161] Coincu. (2021). Taptap China CEO declares play-to-earn 
games a Ponzi scheme [Online]. Available: 
https://news.coincu.com/46316-taptap-china-ceo-
declares-play-to-earn-games/ [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[162] Heisenberg JR. (2022). Here are the similarities between 
P2E Gaming and Ponzi Schemes [Online]. Available: 
https://technext.ng/2022/03/23/similarities-
between-p2e-gaming-and-ponzi-schemes/ 
[Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[163] P. Herrera. (2022). DappRadar x BGA Games Report – 
Q1 2022 [Online]. Available: 
https://dappradar.com/blog/dappradar-x-bga-
games-report-q1-2022 [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[164] C. Newton. (2022). Why gamers hate crypto, and music 
fans don’t [Online]. Available: 
https://www.theverge.com/22917126/nfts-crypto-
gamers-music-fans-fandoms [Accessed: 5 June 2022] 
[165] E. Levy and J. Barnes. (2022). Thetan Arena - The 
Mobile Game that Combines F2P and P2E [Online]. 
Available: 
https://www.deconstructoroffun.com/blog/2022/
2/28/thetan-arena [Accessed: 3 June 2022] 
[166] K. Alroumi. (2021). Play-to-earn: How gaming’s 
revolutionary new business model works [Online]. Available: 
https://medium.com/ironsource-levelup/play-to-
earn-from-a-systems-design-lens-6d134ddeca0 
[Accessed: 3 June 2022] 
[167] Binance Academy. (2022). Initial Coin Offering (ICO) 
[Online]. Available: 
https://academy.binance.com/en/glossary/initial-
coin-offering [Accessed: 8 June 2022] 
[168] SEC. (2021). Spotlight on Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) 
[Online]. Available: https://www.sec.gov/ICO 
[Accessed: 8 June 2022] 
[169] H. I. Ansoff, “Strategies for diversification,” Harvard 
business review, vol. 35, no. 5, pp. 113-124, 1957. 
[170] Arachnys. (2022). What do NFTs in the video gaming 
industry mean for AML? [Online]. Available: 
https://www.arachnys.com/what-do-nfts-in-the-
video-gaming-industry-mean-for-aml/ [Accessed: 3 
July 2022] 
[171] M. Nystrom. (2022). GameFi Monetization: A 
Framework for Redefining Play-to-Earn [Online]. 
Available: https://messari.io/article/gamefi-
monetization-a-framework-for-redefining-play-to-
earn [Accessed: 4 July 2022] 
[172] J. Melinek. (2022). Crypto gaming is growing, but can it 
reach people outside of the web3 world? [Online]. Available: 
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-
gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-
of-the-web3-
world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%2
0industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20
Q1%202022 [Accessed: 11 June 2022] 
[173] A. Popescu, “Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT)-
Innovation Beyond the Craze,” in 5th International 
Conference on Innovation in Business, Economics and 
Marketing Research, 2021, pp. 26-30. 
[174] G. Kondrateva, E. de Boissieu, C. Ammi, and E. 
Seulliet, “The potential use of blockchain technology 
in co-creation ecosystems,” Journal of Innovation 
Economics Management, vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 9-27, 2022. 
 
 
 
 
Nithidol Kanchanaratanakorn received a Master of Engineering in Engineering Management 
from Chulalongkorn University, Thailand, and a Master of Science in Engineering Business 
Management from the University of Warwick, U.K. He is currently working as a Senior Associate 
at Garena Online (Thailand) Co., Ltd. 
 
 
 
 
Parames Chutima received his Electrical Engineering degree from Chulalongkorn University. 
He received his Master's degree from Chulalongkorn University and the Asian Institute of 
Technology. He received a PhD in Manufacturing Engineering and Operations Management from 
the University of Nottingham, UK. Currently, he is a Professor in the Faculty of Engineering at 
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand. His research interests include multi-objective 
optimisation in operations management, production planning and control of assembly lines, just-
in-time production systems and simulation modelling. He is the author and co-author of several 
international publications in conference proceedings and referred journals.
 
https://cointelegraph.com/news/thailand-reportedly-exempts-7-crypto-tax-for-traders-on-authorized-exchanges
https://cointelegraph.com/news/thailand-reportedly-exempts-7-crypto-tax-for-traders-on-authorized-exchanges
https://www.bangkokpost.com/business/2132411/industry-urges-rethink-on-token-ban
https://www.bangkokpost.com/business/2132411/industry-urges-rethink-on-token-ban
https://news.coincu.com/46316-taptap-china-ceo-declares-play-to-earn-games/
https://news.coincu.com/46316-taptap-china-ceo-declares-play-to-earn-games/
https://technext.ng/2022/03/23/similarities-between-p2e-gaming-and-ponzi-schemes/
https://technext.ng/2022/03/23/similarities-between-p2e-gaming-and-ponzi-schemes/
https://dappradar.com/blog/dappradar-x-bga-games-report-q1-2022
https://dappradar.com/blog/dappradar-x-bga-games-report-q1-2022
https://www.theverge.com/22917126/nfts-crypto-gamers-music-fans-fandoms
https://www.theverge.com/22917126/nfts-crypto-gamers-music-fans-fandoms
https://www.deconstructoroffun.com/blog/2022/2/28/thetan-arena
https://www.deconstructoroffun.com/blog/2022/2/28/thetan-arena
https://medium.com/ironsource-levelup/play-to-earn-from-a-systems-design-lens-6d134ddeca0
https://medium.com/ironsource-levelup/play-to-earn-from-a-systems-design-lens-6d134ddeca0
https://academy.binance.com/en/glossary/initial-coin-offering
https://academy.binance.com/en/glossary/initial-coin-offering
https://www.sec.gov/ICO
https://www.arachnys.com/what-do-nfts-in-the-video-gaming-industry-mean-for-aml/
https://www.arachnys.com/what-do-nfts-in-the-video-gaming-industry-mean-for-aml/
https://messari.io/article/gamefi-monetization-a-framework-for-redefining-play-to-earn
https://messari.io/article/gamefi-monetization-a-framework-for-redefining-play-to-earn
https://messari.io/article/gamefi-monetization-a-framework-for-redefining-play-to-earn
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-of-the-web3-world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%20industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20Q1%202022
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-of-the-web3-world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%20industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20Q1%202022
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-of-the-web3-world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%20industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20Q1%202022
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-of-the-web3-world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%20industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20Q1%202022
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-of-the-web3-world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%20industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20Q1%202022
https://techcrunch.com/2022/05/05/crypto-gaming-is-growing-but-can-it-reach-people-outside-of-the-web3-world/#:~:text=The%20blockchain%20gaming%20industry%20grew,Alliance%20report%20from%20Q1%202022