Microsoft Word - gamification-momm2017.docx
A New Approach to Mining Work in Blockchain Technologies 
Yuki Kano,    Tatsuo Nakajima 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering                                                                                               
Waseda University                                                                                                                                                   
Tokyo, Japan 
{konayuki, tatsuo} @dcl.cs.waseda.ac.jp 
 
ABSTRACT 
In virtual currency using the blockchain technology that has 
drawn significant attention in recent years, the mining work 
concentration problem, whereby machine power is monopolized 
when supporting its operation, is becoming a serious problem. In 
particular, with the use of blockchain technology in future 
advanced mobile computing environments, the problem becomes 
more serious.  
In this paper, to solve the problem, we developed a simple virtual 
currency service that allows a user to operate the service by giving 
the user a new incentive based on gamification, not traditional 
economic incentives. We conducted experiments that show the 
feasibility of adopting the alternative incentive. The experiments 
also allowed us to extract some insights regarding the use of 
blockchain technology in future advanced mobile computing 
environments as an essential building block for developing future 
digital services.  
CCS Concepts 
• Computing methodology → Distributed computing 
methodology Interaction paradigms  
Keywords 
Mining Work Centralization; Gamification; Cryptcurrency; 
Human Crowd’s Power;  
1 INTRODUCTION 
In recent years, blockchain technology, which prevents duplicate 
trading and tampering of data, has drawn a significant amount of 
attention due to its ability to make our society more robust and 
efficient. Blockchain technology is actually a part of a virtual 
currency (encryption currency) system named Bitcoin proposed in 
2008; the technology makes it possible to carry out reliable 
commercial transactions that do not go through third parties on the 
Internet, which was difficult to realize before [12]. The 
blockchain technology not only issues its own currency [16]; it 
has also been used for domain name service [13], smart contracts 
[11], etc. The possibility of being used for various services in 
advanced mobile computing environments will be increased in the 
near future, and the blockchain technology will become an 
important infrastructure to support various services in the 
advanced mobile computing environments. 
While the blockchain technology is expected to be a next-
generation technology, some problems have also been pointed out. 
Since the operation of the Bitcoin network system is carried out 
by distributing the machine power through P2P communication, it 
is possible to be able to selfishly manipulate transaction data by 
monopolizing more than 51% of the total machine power. Taking 
Bitcoin as an example, incentives for the Bitcoin operation are to 
earn its virtual currency. Because only economic incentives are 
used to obtain the currency, some users aim at obtaining the 
currency by preparing a huge amount of machine power, and the 
machine power has been centralized [7]. Such a problem is 
referred to as the mining work concentration problem. 
In advanced mobile computing environments, it is necessary to 
gather machine power from every computer to obtain truly 
decentralized agreement that is essential to realize decentralized 
trust, so incentives to provide machine power from distributed 
users are necessary. When using the blockchain technology in 
advanced mobile computing environments, the mining work 
concentration problem that hinders the distributed agreement 
becomes a serious problem because in various real world services 
in advanced mobile computing environments, distributed trust is 
essential; however, typical advanced mobile computing devices 
may not be powerful enough for mining work. Thus, the 
centralized machine power tends to monopolize more mining 
work. 
Many techniques have been studied to solve the mining work 
concentration problem by suggesting a new mining algorithm, but 
no research has given a new incentive to the user. In this study, 
therefore, by using a method called gamification to motivate 
people through psychological factors [8], we investigated whether 
the mining work concentration problem can be solved by 
providing incentives based on psychological factors through 
gamification rather than offering economic incentives. 
 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or 
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or 
distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and 
the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by 
others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy 
otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior 
specific permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from Permissions@acm.org. 
 
MoMM '17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria  
© 2017 Association for Computing Machinery. 
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-5300-7/17/12�$15.00  
https://doi.org/10.1145/3151848.3151851 
  
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3151848.3151851&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2017-12-04
MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria Y. Kano et al. 
 
2 
 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 
introduces the existing studies on the mining work concentration 
problem in Bitcoin and the existing studies on gamification 
concerning human motivation. In Section 3, we will discuss our 
approach to gamification to solve the mining work centralization 
problem. In Section 4, we describe the experiments to justify the 
feasibility of the proposed approach, and Section 5 describes the 
results obtained from the experiments and presents some useful 
insights from the results. Section 6 concludes the paper and 
presents future issues in this research. 
The contribution of this research suggests the possibility of 
solving the mining work centralization problem without using 
economic incentives by proposing an alternative approach using 
gamification. The proposed approach promises to adopt the 
blockchain technology in advanced mobile computing 
environments; the decentralized power of human crowds offered 
through gamification prevents the monopolization of mining work 
through powerful machine power. 
2  RELATED WORK 
2.1 Bitcoin Mining 
The most notable blockchain technology is the virtual currency 
named Bitcoin, invented in the paper written by Nakamoto in 
2008 [12]. He claimed “To implement a distributed blockchain 
server on a peer-to-peer basis, we will need to use a proof-of-
work system similar to Adam Back's Hashcash”. Hashcash refers 
to data and nonce, and it is a mechanism that does not allow 
transactions to be approved until the hash value becomes less than 
a certain value [2]. By making hassle-free calculation to confirm 
the transaction using the hash value, it requires huge machine 
power for preventing illegal transactions.  
The mechanism that requires machine power for the approval of a 
transaction is called Proof-of-Work (PoW). In order for Bitcoin to 
operate stably, a large number of users need to perform PoW in 
their computers, so incentives for the users to provide the machine 
power are required. Nakamoto also said in his paper “By 
convention, the first transaction in a block is a special transaction 
that starts a new coin owned by the creator of the block. This adds 
an incentive for nodes to support the network, and provides a way 
to initially distribute coins into circulation, since there is no 
central authority to issue them” [12] Such a mechanism that 
obtains Bitcoin as a reward using the machine power is 
represented as mining by analogy to digging out gold at a mine. 
2.2 Mining Work Centralization Problem 
When the machine power concentrates on one entity, it is pointed 
out that the entity can modify the chain, which makes it 
impossible to maintain the legitimacy of the system. For example, 
as presented in [5], the authors claimed “Too much hash power 
controlled by one entity can cause Bitcoin to become similar to 
the payment systems and currencies it was meant to improve upon. 
A pool with more than 51% of the network hash power can block 
transactions, double spend, and change other consensus rules.” 
As shown in [6], the authors claimed “By using the latency of the 
network such as deliberately shifting the disclosure timing of 
block information, we can create a situation where block 
generation can be monopolized without holding 51% of machine 
power". In [11], the author indicated that the Bitcoin mining 
algorithm has vulnerability to a single concentration and is no 
longer dispersed; then he proposed solving the problem where it 
creates random data based on the state of the blockchain, 
computes randomly chosen transactions from the last N blocks of 
the blockchain, and returns the resulting hash. 
Proof-of-Stake (PoS), an alternative to PoW, has also been 
proposed, and King and Nadal also reported PPCoin: the first 
virtual currency based on PoS [9]. 
2.3 UbiPay 
UbiPay [17] is a mobile payment scheme that drives transaction 
cost toward zero by offering a range of user modes and applying a 
minimum fee based on the situation. Their goal is to make paying 
as easy as breathing. 
UbiPay is an important scheme to discuss a digital payment 
system used cryptocurrency technologies. In [17], the authors 
aimed to zero cost transactions and situation-based minimum fee. 
This concept is suitable for the cryptocurrency base payment 
system. Bitcoin and most of Bitcoin-based cryptocurrency 
systems can send small price transaction. This price is smaller 
than legal currency minimum units. In a Bitcoin network, the 
minimum transaction value is approximately 0.0006 cents in the 
protocol level. Cryptocurrency has an easy payment way and low 
transaction costs compared with the legal currency. We think that 
these features are essential to realize UbiPay. 
2.4 Gamification 
Digital designers have recently begun adopting ideas from game 
design to incentivize desirable user behaviors. This approach is 
known as serious gaming in education, and it is sometimes 
referred to as games with a purpose in human computing [1]; in 
[10, 15], the authors discuss designing incentives to increase 
participants’ activities. Most recently, in [8], the authors defined 
gamification as follows: "Gamification is a process of 
strengthening services with gaming experiences to support users' 
activities.” In particular, gamification has already been adopted in 
various social media to facilitate users’ social activities on social 
media. 
FoldIt, a protein structure prediction game developed by David 
Baker, can be frequently cited as a research example that could 
solve the protein structure prediction problem by using 
gamification. With FoldIt, the problem has been made into games 
and played by users, not machines; the structure of AIDS-related 
proteins, unknown for over 10 years, was solved with Foldit [4]. 
As shown in Section 2.2, the automated mining approaches may 
cause the mining centralization problem. However, the 
gamification-based approach like [14] offers a possibility to 
decentralize the mining through crowds of people; then the 
A New Approach to Mining Work in Blockchain Technologies MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria 
 
 3 
approach is more appropriate for realizing the basic fundamental 
idea, decentralized operations of the blockchain technologies. 
 
3  OUR APPROACH 
3.1 An Overview of Our Approach 
We design a gamified service to justify our approach and focus on 
the mining work centralization problem. It is a customized and 
simplified virtual currency system based on the blockchain 
technology developed for justifying this research, giving 
incentives based on psychological factors using gamification 
against mining work and allowing users to perform approval work. 
Our current system is to extract the functions related to the mining 
work for making the validation of our approach easy. The current 
focus of this study is to validate the feasibility of our gamification 
based approach on the mining work centralization problem, and 
the approach can be implemented in traditional P2P blockchain 
implementations without great efforts. Thus, our approach does 
not affect the reliability and security of the original blockchain 
approaches.  
TABLE 1.   ACCOUNT FIELD 
Elements in Account 
USERNAME: a user name 
PASSHASH: a hashed password 
AMOUNT: the amount of coins 
 
The developed service consists of the following elements. 
Currency Unit: In this service, the unit of virtual currency used is 
expressed by [coin]. 
Communication protocol: For the sake of simplicity, the 
client/server model was used for developing the service. Although 
the blockchain technology is typically used in the P2P method, 
since the purpose of this experiment is only to give incentives for 
psychological factors to mining work, adopting the client/server 
method would not affect the results. 
Account: The service needs to create an account for each 
participating user. The account is provided with the fields shown 
in Table 1. In order to mine virtual currency, it is necessary to 
generate a block. Also, for generating a block, it is necessary to 
generate a transaction. 
 
TABLE 2.     TRANSACTION FIELD 
Elements in Transaction 
TRANSACTIONID:  transaction number 
GENERATEDBY:    transaction publisher 
DEST:     destination name 
INPUTS:      the amount of 
payment 
OUTPUTS:     the amount of remittance 
CHARGE:     the amount of fee 
 
TABLE 3.    BLOCK FIELD 
Elements in Block 
BLOCKID:      block number 
PREHASH:                 previous hash 
NONCE:       the amount of coins 
GENERATEDBY:      block publisher 
TRFROM:                   contained first transaction number 
TRTO:                         contained last transaction number 
HASH:       block hash  
 
Transaction: The service exchanges virtual currency between 
users. For sending coins to others, the remittance account name 
and the amount of coins can be registered. In the transaction data, 
the fields shown in Table 2 are provided. When the transaction is 
performed normally, the transaction data is added to the 
 
Figure. 1. A GUI Screenshot of the Proposed Service 
MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria Y. Kano et al. 
 
4 
 
transaction data list, and the user can confirm the contents of the 
transaction added to the data list at any time. 
Block: The service generates blocks storing multiple transaction. 
The creation of the block is done in the visualized state by a user. 
The field indicated by Table 3 is provided in the block. The user 
stores the hash value of one block in the newly generated block. 
Blocks can be connected like unidirectional chains. When the 
approval work succeeds by the mining work to be described later, 
the block is added to the block data list. Block information and 
blocks are added to the preceding and succeeding blocks, and the 
service can check how it is connected in a visualized state. 
Mining Work: In order for a user to generate blocks and to add 
them to the block list, the block approval work is required. When 
blocks are approved and the chain extends from the block for the 
longest time, the block creator is given a reward. The mining 
work in this service is performed by manipulating visualized 
values by a user. In the game design, the value of the nonce in the 
block is made to correspond to the shape of the puzzle on the 5 × 
5 board surface. The purpose is to make the user voluntarily 
perform a series of tasks of changing the value of nonce and 
performing approval work. 
3.2 Service Design 
In this service, a server/client model is adopted as shown above. 
The server mainly deals with data; account, transaction, and block. 
In a client, the service to offer the functions necessary for mining 
work and exchange of virtual currency is provided to a user. All 
operations by the user are performed through a Graphic User 
Interface (GUI) and provide six modes according to the necessary 
functions. The explanation of each mode is listed below, and the 
execution screen of the application is shown in Figure 1. Also, a 
configuration of the server used in this experiment is shown in 
Figure 2. 
 
Account Registration and Login: The service registers a new 
account or logs in with an existing account. 
Menu: It is possible to change to the transaction generation mode, 
the account list confirmation mode, the mining mode, (automatic 
or manual) and the transaction list confirmation mode, respectively. 
Transaction Publication: The service can create a transaction for 
coin remittance from the account the current user is using, for any 
existing account. 
List Up Account: The service can check the list of account names 
in the registered account list. 
List Up Transaction: The service can check the list of transaction 
lists. 
Mining Work: The service allows a user to check the list of block 
lists visually. The blocks are connected by hash value. It can 
generate a new block from the existing latest block. In order to 
generate a new block, mining work is necessary, and let this user 
do this work on the GUI. 
4 EXPERIMENT METHOD 
In order to evaluate whether the developed service gives users 
enough incentives for psychological factors caused by 
gamification, we run the service and conduct experiments using a 
questionnaire based on users’ answers. 
4.1 Overview  
This experiment was carried out by distributing client software for 
a total of 44 people (Age: 10-20) offering the service described in 
Section III. The experiment period is one week. The evaluation 
was carried out using the statistical data obtained after the 
experiment and the questionnaire result of the optional answer.  
In addition to manually performing mining work to evaluate 
whether mining work was done as a result of incentives for 
psychological motivation, the function of automatically mining 
work with a certain probability by consuming coins held. This 
approach imitates the mining work in conventional Bitcoin 
whereby the problem is solved using machine power. If there are 
users who manually perform mining work even under this 
circumstance, within the game, it can be said that the incentive of 
the psychological factor through gamification is meaningful.  
 
Figure 2. System Configuration 
 
A New Approach to Mining Work in Blockchain Technologies MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria 
 
 5 
The statistical data were compiled with respect to the items listed 
below; the number of generated blocks, the number of mining 
work done manually and automatically. 
4.2 Questionnaire 
In the questionnaire, we investigate whether the service actually 
provided incentives that are based on the psychological factors. 
The contents of the question used in the questionnaire are shown 
below as Q1 - Q9. 
  Q 1)  What is the reason for thinking about mining work? 
  Q 2)  This is a question to those who have not done automatic 
mining work even once. What is the reason why you did 
not do it? 
  Q 3)  This is a question to the person who performed 
automatic mining work. What is the reason why you did 
it? 
  Q 4)  Have you had fun in mining work? 
  Q 5)  In the case of this design, it seems that you can use the 
service without getting tired after how many days. 
  Q 6)  The probability of mining work success this time was 
1/16. Do you think you would continue mining work 
with this probability? 
  Q 7)  If the probability of mining work had reached 1/100, 
would you decide to continue mining work? 
  Q 8)  If the probability of mining work success is 1/10000, 
would you decide to continue mining work? 
  Q 9)  If you have an opinion on the application, please 
describe it freely. 
5 RESULTS AND ANALYSIS 
Table 4, Table 5, Fig. 3, and Fig. 4 show the results of the 
experiments and the questionnaire obtained and also discuss the 
feasibility of solving the mining work concentration problem from 
the experimental results. 
5.1 About Motivating Factors 
 
The section considers what a participant felt motivated to mining 
work. Focusing on the answer to Q1, 52.9% participants 
accounted for "Mining work itself was fun." from Figure 3 (a). 
The answer is relevant to Q4; most of participants enjoyed the 
mining work. Also, 47.1% of participants said "I wanted to build 
my own block and wanted to join the block. Because I wanted a 
reward.", and "It was told to me to do the mining work." for 
35.3% of participants. This means that roughly half of the 
participants were motivated to do mining work through 
gamification. Similarly, some participants were motivated through 
economic rewards like Bitcoin, or the intrinsic motivation to 
contribute the service’s operation. However, 35.3% of participants 
responded that "I was told to do the mining work", which can be 
inferred as a participant who could not have motivated the mining 
work through gamification. In addition, 5.9% of participants 
answered "I wanted to win the mining work competition." This 
means that there are a few participants who were motivated 
through social incentives like the competition to solve a puzzle. 
Since the virtual currency used in this service is the currency 
generated for the experiment, and it was not accompanied by 
actual monetary value, the difference caused by the design 
decision is also necessary to be taken into account. In the free 
description in Q9, some were answers such as “Because there was 
no value of coin”; the motivation to collect coin did not rise so 
much.", or "I thought that motivation would change if the reward 
was directly returned to participants.”  
TABLE 4.   THE NUMBER OF BLOCKS GENERATED 
Manual Auto 
542 277 
 
 
Figure 3.  Miming Factor: Q1, Manual-Mining Factor: Q2, Auto-Mining Factor: Q3 and Enjoyment of Mining: Q4 
MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria Y. Kano et al. 
 
6 
 
TABLE 5.  HOW LONG DO YOU WANT TO USE THE SERVICE ? 
Time Response Rate [%] 
1 day 11.8 
2,3 day 17.6 
4-7 day 52.9 
2,3 week 11.8 
1 month 5.9 
Over 1 month 0 
 
If the currency used here is a currency with monetary value, it can 
be inferred that the options that can affect the answer result of Q1 
include "I wanted a reward.", "Because I was told to do the 
mining work." Since these options are all related to the incentive 
by an external factor based on "currency", it can be considered 
that it is independent of the incentives by psychological factors 
using gamification. 
5.2 Effects of Gamification 
This section discusses whether the game elements offered by 
gamification used for the service were given incentives from 
psychological factors to participants. The game element used in 
the service was to associate the nonce value in the block with the 
shape of the puzzle. Focusing on the answer to Q4, as shown in 
Figure 3 (d), the percentage of participants who actually felt 
pleasure with mining work was 65%, and the percentage of 
participants who did not feel fun was 35%. In other words, it can 
be said that more than half of the participants had motivation for 
the game elements in the service. 
We also try to perform a comparison between automatic and 
manual mining work. From Table 4, the number of total blocks 
generated during the experiment was 819, among which 542 
blocks by manual mining work and 277 blocks by automatic 
mining work were found. That is, 66% of the blocks are manually 
created. This ratio generally agrees with the proportion of 
participants who felt pleasure with respect to the mining work 
incorporating game elements. Looking at the answer to Q2, half of 
the participants answered "Because I wanted to do mining work in 
my hand." This is the reason why they did not use automatic 
mining work from Figure 3 (b). Also, looking at the answer to Q3, 
80% of participants answered "I used it just as a trial." as the 
reason for using automatic mining work from Figure 3 (c). On the 
other hand, since 20% of participants answered that "Mining work 
was troublesome." It can be inferred that most participants 
accounted for mining work as games instead of monotonous work. 
In summary, it is concluded that it is effective to give incentives 
due to psychological factors using gamification to mining work. 
5.3 Application to Cryptcurrency 
This section considers whether the mining work using 
gamification can be applied to realistic cryptographic currency 
using the blockchain technology. In the service used in this paper, 
we defined the success probability to do mining work as 1/16. 
According to this probability, if a participant can continue using 
the service or looking at the answer to Q6, 82% of participants 
answered "I think I can continue." from Figure 4 (a). On the other 
hand, if looking at the answer to Q7 whether a participant seems 
to continue mining work when the probability to do mining work 
successfully is 1/100, 35% of participants from Figure 4 (b) 
replied “I think I can continue.” Also, if looking at the answer to 
Q8 whether a participant seems to continue mining work when the 
probability to do mining work has become 1/10000, only 5% of 
participants answered "I think I can continue." from Figure 4 (c). 
From these answers, it was found that the lower the success 
probability of mining work, the less motivated a participant to do 
mining work. For example, since the success probability of 
performing mining work in Bitcoin is 1/10$%as of January 2017 
[2], it can be said that it may be impractical to apply the game 
element of this service applied to mining work in Bitcoin. 
However, as mentioned above, the service can be used by "fun by 
game" as a motivational factor; it seems likely to be able to 
provide machine power using gamification without direct mining 
work. In other words, it seems to be effective when giving 
participants mining work as puzzles or games as incentives to 
provide machine power. 
We still need to consider how to make puzzles and game designs 
more effective and what kind of design you should not get bored 
 
Figure. 4.  Proportion trying to continue manual mining work, with probability of (a)1/16, (b)1/100, and (c)1/10000 
A New Approach to Mining Work in Blockchain Technologies MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria 
 
 7 
with in order to keep participants providing machine power, and 
we will conduct more experiments to justify the proposed approach. 
5.4 Feasibility of Solving Mining Work 
Centralization 
This section discusses whether we can actually solve the mining 
work centralization problem by increasing the number of 
participants who perform mining work, which is achieved by 
offering incentives based on psychological factors using 
gamification. In this section, solving the mining work 
centralization problem is defined as more than 10% of mining 
work in the entire blockchain being performed by participants 
motivated through gamification; this is based on the actual data in 
Bitcoin to demonstrate the proposed approach’s feasibility in a 
practical usage environment. 
First, we estimate how much machine power will be gathered due 
to the psychological incentive based on gamification. Looking at 
the answer to Q5 in order to investigate the period that the service 
can be used continuously, from Table 5, we found 11.8% for 1 
day, 17.6% for 2-3 days, 52.9% for 4-7 days, 11.8% for 2-3 weeks, 
and 5.9% for 1 month. On average, it seems that people can 
continue to use the gamified mining work for one week per person. 
Also, we consider the startup count of the service. Since the 
number of participants in the experiment was 44, assuming that it 
was started 7 times per person, it can be roughly estimated that 
308 services were started in total. Since the number of blocks 
generated during the experiment period is 819, 2.66 blocks are 
generated by starting a service once. Since the time required to 
generate 2.66 blocks is approximately 10 minutes, we 
approximate the amount of machine power that can be provided 
using the above consideration. 
Regarding Bitcoin, it is stated that roughly 2140 is about to reach 
the upper limit of issuing currency due to mining work [12]. 
Therefore, we thought that it would be necessary to continue 
providing machine power for roughly 100 years. Then, a scenario 
is considered where the machine power is provided by 10 
[minutes] × 7 [times] = 70 [minutes] = 4200 [sec] per person from 
the above discussion. Assuming that the machine power of the 
computer used by a user is 2 GHz and the ratio of the machine 
power that can be used for mining work is 20%, the machine 
power of 2	x	10)	x	0.2	x	4200 = 1.68	x	10%$  [cycle clock] per 
user can be provided. That is, the total machine power that can be 
newly provided for Bitcoin is 1.68	x	10%$ [cycle clock]. 
Lastly, we estimate the machine power necessary to occupy more 
than 10% of the mining work ratio in Bitcoin. Currently, the 
probability of success of mining work in Bitcoin is approximately 
1/10$% [3]; then, we approximate the necessary machine power to 
perform 10% of mining work based on the above success 
probability. Then, we calculate minimum n (trials) satisfying 
1 − %
%012
3
< 0.9 , and the result is 	𝑛	x	10$7  [times]. For the 
number of trials, the machine power that is required to process 
one block should be provided. The degree of difficulty is adjusted 
so that blocks in Bitcoin are generated at a rate of one per 10 
minutes. Since the number of blocks generated in 100 years is 
6	x	24	x	365	x	100 = 5256000 [pieces], the total machine power 
required to solve the mining work concentration problem is 
10$7	x	5256000 = 5.256	x	10:0 [cycle clock]. 
6 CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we proposed encouraging participation in mining 
work activities by incentivizing users through psychological 
factors made available by gamification; the objective was to solve 
the mining work concentration problem. When it comes to make a 
user perform mining work directly, since the probability of the 
approval work succeeding is deeply related to motivation, it does 
not work on such a design. However, the extracted insights show 
that it is beneficial to use ubiquitous machine power by giving the 
user a gaming element. 
However, it becomes clear that more machine power is needed to 
realize the proposed approach. In order to solve the issue, it is 
necessary to increase the machine power used by the individual. 
For example, if the personal machine contains powerful 
Application Specific Integrated Circuit (ASIC) dedicated to 
mining work, the possibility of solving the mining work 
centralization problem is increased. There is also room for 
improvement regarding the gaming design. In the service used in 
this research, it was expected to launch 70 minutes of a service 
per user, but by changing the gaming design, the time launching 
the service with machine power provided may be increased 
significantly. 
ACKLOWLEDGEMENT 
This work was supported in part by the Program for Leading 
Graduate Schools, “Graduate Program for Embodiment 
Informatics” of the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, 
Science and Technology (MEXT) of Japan. 
REFERENCES 
[1] von Ahn, L., Dabbish, L., “Designing Games with a 
Purpose”, Communications of the ACM, Vol.51, No.8. 
(2008) 
[2] Back, A., "Hashcash - A Denial of Service Counter-
Measure", http://www.hashcash.org/papers/hashcash.pdf, 
(Accessed April 10) 
[3] BLOCKCHAIN.info, "difficulty",  
https://blockchain.info/ja/charts/difficulty, (Accessed April 
10) 
[4] Cooper, S., Khatib, F., Treuille, A., Barbero, J., Lee, J., 
Beenen, M., Leaver-Fay, A., Baker, D., Popović, Z. and 
Foldit players, "Predicting protein structures with a 
multiplayer online game", Nature, vol.466, pp.756-760, 
(2010) 
[5] Draupnir, M., "Bitcoin Mining Centralization", 
https://www.bitcoinmining.com/bitcoin-mining-
centralization/, (Accessed April 10) 
[6] Eyal, I., and Sirer, E.G., "Majority is not Enough: Bitcoin 
Mining is Vulnerable", In Proceedings of the Eighteenth 
International Conference on Financial Cryptography and 
Data Security (FC'14), pp.436-454, (2014) 
MoMM’17, December 2017, Salzburg Austria Y. Kano et al. 
 
8 
 
[7] Eyal, I., and Sirer, E.G., "How to Disincentivize Large 
Bitcoin Mining Pools",  
http://hackingdistributed.com/2014/06/18/how-to-
disincentivize-large-bitcoin-mining-pools/, (Accessed April 
10) 
[8] Huotari, K., and Hamari, J., "A definition for gamification: 
anchoring gamification in the service marketing literature", 
Electronic Markets vol.27, no.1, pp.21-31, (2017) 
[9] King, S., and Nadal, S., "PPCoin: Peer-to-Peer Crypto- 
Currency with Proof-of-Stake",  Avaiable from: 
https://peercoin.net/assets/paper/peercoin-paper.pdf, 
(Accessed April 10) 
[10] Malone, T., Lawbacher, R., Dellarocas, C. “Harnessing 
Crowds: Mapping the Genome of Collective Intelligence”, 
Research Paper, No 4732-09, Sloan School of Management, 
MIT, (2009) 
[11] Maltsev, P., "A Next-Generation Smart Contract and 
Decentralized Application Platform", 
https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper, 
(Accessed April 10) 
[12] Nakamoto, S., "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash 
System",  https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf, (Accessed April 10) 
[13] Namecoin Project, "Namecoin",   https://www.namecoin.org, 
(Accessed April 10) 
[14] Hosio, S., Goncalves, J., Lehdonvirta, V., Ferreira, D., and 
Kostako,V., "Situated crowdsourcing using a market model", 
In Proceedings of the 27th annual ACM symposium on User 
interface software and technology, pp.55-64, (2014) 
[15] Sakamoto, M., Nakajima, T., Akioka, S., “Gamifying 
Collective Human Behavior with Gameful Digital Rhetoric”, 
Multimedia Tools and Applications, Vol. 76, No. 10, pp. 
12539-12581, (2017) 
 
[16] Vitalik, B., and Meni, R., "Colored Coins", 
https://github.com/Colored-Coins/Colored-Coins-Protocol-
Specification, (Accessed April 10) 
[17] Yamabe, T., Lehdonvirta, V., Ito, H., Soma, H., Kimura, H., 
and Nakajima, T., "Applying pervasive technologies to 
create economic incentives that alter consumer behavior", In 
Proceedings of the 11th international conference on 
Ubiquitous computing, pp. 175-184, (2009)