Blockchain–Cloud Integration: A Survey
Citation: Khanna, A.; Sah, A.;
Bolshev, V.; Burgio, A.; Panchenko, V.;
Jasiński, M. Blockchain–Cloud
Integration: A Survey. Sensors 2022,
22, 5238. https://doi.org/10.3390/
s22145238
Academic Editors: Massimo Villari,
Maria Fazio, Giuseppe Di Modica
and Antonino Galletta
Received: 8 June 2022
Accepted: 8 July 2022
Published: 13 July 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sensors
Review
Blockchain–Cloud Integration: A Survey
Abhirup Khanna 1,* , Anushree Sah 1, Vadim Bolshev 2,3 , Alessandro Burgio 4 , Vladimir Panchenko 5
and Marek Jasiński 6
1 Department of Systemics, School of Computer Science, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies,
Dehradun 248007, India; asah@ddn.upes.ac.in
2 Laboratory of Power Supply and Heat Supply, Federal Scientific Agroengineering Center VIM,
109428 Moscow, Russia; vadimbolshev@gmail.com
3 Laboratory of Intelligent Agricultural Machines and Complexes, Don State Technical University,
344000 Rostov-on-Don, Russia
4 Independent Researcher, 87036 Rende, Italy; alessandro.burgio.phd@gmail.com
5 Department of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics, Russian University of Transport, 127994 Moscow, Russia;
pancheska@mail.ru
6 WWSIS “Horyzont”, 54-239 Wrocław, Poland; jasinski.lubin@gmail.com
* Correspondence: akhanna@ddn.upes.ac.in; Tel.: +91-9759-617-150
Abstract: Over the last couple of years, Blockchain technology has emerged as a game-changer for
various industry domains, ranging from FinTech and the supply chain to healthcare and educa-
tion, thereby enabling them to meet the competitive market demands and end-user requirements.
Blockchain technology gained its popularity after the massive success of Bitcoin, of which it consti-
tutes the backbone technology. While blockchain is still emerging and finding its foothold across
domains, Cloud computing is comparatively well defined and established. Organizations such as
Amazon, IBM, Google, and Microsoft have extensively invested in Cloud and continue to provide a
plethora of related services to a wide range of customers. The pay-per-use policy and easy access
to resources are some of the biggest advantages of Cloud, but it continues to face challenges like
data security, compliance, interoperability, and data management. In this article, we present the
advantages of integrating Cloud and blockchain technology along with applications of Blockchain-
as-a-Service. The article presents itself with a detailed survey illustrating recent works combining
the amalgamation of both technologies. The survey also talks about blockchain–cloud services being
offered by existing Cloud Service providers.
Keywords: blockchain; cloud computing; decentralization; Blockchain-as-a-Service
1. Introduction
Blockchain is a new and emergent technology that is expected to change the way
current markets work. It is a distributed digital ledger and is decentralized. With the
current working capacity of blockchain, it has the potential to be the operating system of
smart cities. Blockchain is technology that is open source and distributed and is used to
record transactions between parties. It provides a way to develop a system that is both
verifiable and secured. Blockchain is open source, so different versions of blockchain are
available on the market. Each version is developed depending upon the different needs
of the various industries. Blockchain is neither owned nor singly controlled by any one
authority [1]. Blockchain technology is evolving at a swift pace. It started with Bitcoin, and
now there are many types of blockchain. Organizations are developing different versions of
blockchain depending upon their need and benefits. The critical development in blockchain
innovation is that it permits its member to transfer resources across the Internet without
the requirement of an incorporated outsider. The blockchain concept was created as the
fundamental innovation behind the cryptocurrency called Bitcoin. Blockchain technology
is currently being tested in many different asset management and procurement services for
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238. https://doi.org/10.3390/s22145238 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors
https://doi.org/10.3390/s22145238
https://doi.org/10.3390/s22145238
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-4451-0558
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5787-8581
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1450-8935
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4689-843X
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8648-8219
https://doi.org/10.3390/s22145238
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/s22145238?type=check_update&version=1
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 2 of 31
opportunities and has already led to many applications. Similar to today’s sophisticated
flow of goods, there is a lack of transparency and trust. There are many intermediate
people associated with high documentation requirements, which leads to time-consuming
processes. Still, with a distributed blockchain system, the different interests of participants
in a feed chain can be linked to a public register. Blockchain eliminates disclosure and
accountability issues. Blockchain technology demonstrates high flexibility and has led to
lasting changes in business models that could prove to be more profitable than existing
ones [2]. Blockchain is an innovation that permits deals among numerous parties to be
addressed in a dependable, non-impermanent, and appropriately secure way. A blockchain
fills in as a grown-up trail to check the provenance in the food inventory network. In this
way, it will prevent lawsuits. In international supply chains, blockchain will help if all the
nations have a completely working general set of laws and execute the laws. The following
are some of the prominent contributions of our work:
• Providing a systematic review of Blockchain technology with respect to Cloud Computing
• Exemplifying prominent works discussing the application of Blockchain–Cloud integration
• Providing a detailed bibliometric analysis across five real-world application areas of
Blockchain–Cloud integration along with a reference architecture
• Exploring three key areas of Cloud computing which have had the maximum impact
of Blockchain integration followed by a bibliometric analysis
• Identifying the top three allied technologies which complement Blockchain–Cloud
integration for creating new-age solutions followed by their bibliometric analysis
• Providing a structured overview and description of publication patterns for Blockchain-
as-a-Service and leading Cloud Service Providers rendering Blockchain integrated
Cloud services.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 talks about Cloud computing
along with its deployment models. In Section 3, we discuss benefits of Blockchain–Cloud
integration followed by illustrating the key areas of Cloud computing wherein Blockchain
can have a significant impact in Section 4. Section 5 discusses the notable works concerning
application areas of Blockchain–Cloud integration. Section 6 talks about the adoption
challenges pertaining to Blockchain–Cloud integration. In Section 7, we identify and
discuss prominent allied technologies that are being combined with Blockchain–Cloud
integration for creating new-age solutions across different research verticals. In Section 8,
we describe our research methodology and present a detailed bibliometric analysis based
upon existing academic literature. Section 9 discusses prominent Cloud Service Providers
rendering services involving the integration of Blockchain and Cloud computing. Finally,
Section 10 summarizes our findings and concludes the work.
2. Cloud Computing and Deployment Models
Cloud computing is an incredible model that enables clients and associations to
purchase the administrations they need as indicated by their requirements. This model
offers many types of assistance, such as stocking, arrangement, and helpful admittance to
web administrations. Load adjusting is a typical issue in the cloud, making it hard to keep
up with the exhibition of utilizations connecting Quality of Service (QoS) estimation and
to meet the service level agreement (SLA). Cloud computing is an inventive organization-
based framework that can deal with various solicitations from the cloud and offer quick
support to clients. It is a computation and preparation model utilized in various parts
of the world. Distributed computing can be utilized to further develop the estimating
cycle utilizing high processing. It provides helpful, on-request admittance to tremendous
processing assets such as CPU, memory, organization, worker, stockpiling, and applications.
Moreover, these assets are frequently allotted to clients with the lowest assistance charge [3].
Cloud Computing is a new trend in information technology that is gaining a lot of attention
from researchers. It provides an accessible, flexible, and scalable computing system over
the internet for users. It enables them to use these resources remotely over the internet.
Using these services, a lot of money is saved that was earlier spent to establish computing
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 3 of 31
infrastructure and maintain it. We are living in a world where, every second, million and
billions of data are processed and refined so as to provide a quality service. User bases in
different firms share their data and activities to use the service and those data are processed
so as to improve the services. As we are moving forward, this also is a threat to the privacy
of user data. Accessing data from local machines was good in previous times, but these days
the user has the power to sync their data to the cloud so that they can use services remotely
from anywhere around the world. This opens another pipeline for direct targets to user
data. So, it is important for firms to adapt a proper user-access control-management system.
This article revolves around different algorithms and techniques to improve security and
precision when accessing the services in cloud.
The characterization of cloud deployment models is performed, keeping in mind
where the deployment of the model resides and who commands the network. Each
model has a variety of necessities, and picking a model to fulfill the requirement of the
client or organization is significant. One of the main deployment choices that you will
have to make is which model to choose as per your requirements and needs. Every
cloud-deployment model offers different features or services and has a different variety
of alternatives depending upon its costs. Therefore, to select the correct model for your
organization, you should make an intelligent choice. The last decade has seen significantly
more organizations become dependent on Cloud computing for better effectiveness and
adaptability, as well as faster time to take products to the market. However, the response
as to which cloud model is the best fit for an organization relies upon the organization’s
demands and needs. It assists them with accomplishing the long-term advanced objectives
as a feature of their system. Picking the right one from the different kinds of cloud
deployment models is fundamental. It would guarantee your business is provided the
protection, security, adaptability, consistence, compliance, and cost-adequacy it needs.
Different types of cloud deployment models are listed below.
2.1. Private Cloud
Private cloud, as its name suggests, is the cloud that is maintained, controlled, and
managed by an organization. Usually, the entire infrastructure is in the datacenter that an
organization controls or manages. In this way, the organization is liable for procurement,
upkeep, and support services. Resources in the private cloud are confined within a single
organization. A private cloud is a committed environment for one (client). You do not
impart the infrastructure to some other clients. When we need our information to be secure
and we want assets that ought to be restricted to a specific measure of groups, private
clouds are preferred. Private clouds are utilized by a restricted measure of individuals,
e.g., where an association sets up its cloud only for the utilization of its workers. Only the
individuals working in that association can access it. The information put away on the
cloud is available just to the chosen group of individuals with the components of improved
security, quality, and protection. Generally, all the equipment is yours. A few examples of
private clouds are IBM Bluemix, Rackspace, Red Hat OpenStack, VMware, and Microsoft
Azure Stack. The private cloud is beneficial for putting away corporate information where
just an approved work force can gain access to resources, i.e., data privacy is important
in this type of cloud. Private clouds are also great for security purposes. There are more
significant levels of safety and better access, as resources are distributed inside the same
organization. Private clouds support legacy systems [4].
2.2. Public Cloud
The public cloud is accessible for everybody, for example, every last one of us is
qualified for use and can store information. Generally, single clients utilize it. Mid-level
organizations’ cloud service providers offer their resources and services to everybody as per
their demands. The public cloud is facilitated on the premises of the service provider. Being
available to everyone, it does not ensure security by and large. Thus, it is appropriate for
the organizations for which security is definitely not a main pressing issue while managing
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 4 of 31
their information. Examples of public clouds are Google App Engine, Salesforce Heroku,
etc. Public cloud models are ideal for associations with developing and fluctuating requests.
Accordingly, you pay a cloud service provider for an infrastructure, computation, and
networking service. Moreover, the public cloud is utilized when investment is minimal,
i.e., there is no enormous forthright expense and is great for organizations where they
need quick access to resources. This model also fit best where the whole infrastructure
is stored with the cloud provider only. Moreover, there is no need for management of
the infrastructure.
2.3. Hybrid Cloud
A hybrid cloud is a blend of both public cloud and private cloud where a client can
utilize benefits of both parts. Assuming you need for a few pieces of your information not
to be open to everybody, you can store it to the private part of the hybrid cloud, and, for
the other non-confidential and public type resources and information, you can use public
part of the cloud. It provides the infrastructure at a sensible cost which is higher than the
public cloud, but also less expensive than private cloud. It is restricted to the organizations
that can isolate their information into private and public crucial parts. Many organizations
have many resources of their own, so they would like to utilize few resources of their own
and want to borrow a few from cloud vendors. In such scenarios, this model plays a vital
role and is a good choice. Thus, this model is the second-most famous model. This model
allows organizations to use some of the on-premises available framework and the rest
of the resources of the public cloud. This is one of the very intelligent choices, and it is
valuable too. Using only public cloud causes security or information-breach issues and,
for a few organizations, security is one of the critical requisites, so they utilize the hybrid
cloud with advantages of using public cloud. The model is costly and expensive to use
and execute.
2.4. Community Cloud
The community cloud is used for a gathering of individuals that have comparative
interests, regularly known as a community. At the point when at least two associations
have comparative necessities, they counsel to a community cloud that holds services
that are normal for organizations. It can end up being of extraordinary advantage to the
organizations that are dealing with joint tasks/projects. Data transmission or limits on the
capacity are fixed in this type of deployment model. This cloud is committed to a couple of
organizations from similar communities. A community cloud is neither public nor private,
as it is not open for the public, and it is also not governed by a single organization or vendor
but is governed by group of organizations. A community cloud is shared by a gathering of
associations that have a common reason or objective. The cloud is mostly used to assist
them with accomplishing that objective. A community cloud is ideal where investment is
smaller and setup benefits are good.
2.5. Multi-Cloud
In a Multi-Cloud model, each cloud vendor is used in turn. This model uses private
and public clouds, and is very much similar to a Hybrid cloud. You would utilize more than
one type of cloud in this model. The Multi-cloud model gives you far better accessibility of
services than any other type of deployment model. One more justification behind utilizing
a multi-cloud is the point at which you want a particular infrastructure or services from one
public cloud and explicit help from another public cloud. The Multi-cloud model provides
various options to the organizations for expanding service dependability.
3. Benefits of Blockchain–Cloud Integration
Blockchain innovation is a vital innovation in the world that will allure businesses
and other sector areas to utilize that innovation to work on various services. Blockchain
is a progressive innovation that may innovate current market trading exchanges. The
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 5 of 31
forthcoming Industry 4.0 interfaces the most recent advancements, for example, blockchain,
AI, distributed computing, and IoT for improving the usefulness and productivity of their
frameworks [5–8]. There are several benefits of blockchain and cloud integration; here, we
are discussing the popular advantages of blockchain and cloud integration.
3.1. Decentralization
In cloud computing, information is kept in a centralized server, which is one of the
major issues from the perspective of security; this can be overcome by accepting blockchain
in cloud computing. In IoT and cloud computing, a significant issue is a reliance on a
brought-together server to oversee information and for making choices. The blockchain
can give an answer to these issue as in the decentralized framework different duplicates
of similar information are put away on numerous hubs which eliminates the chance of
failure of the whole system. Additionally, the deficiency of information cannot be an issue,
as numerous duplicates of the information are available on different hubs. Blockchain
with integration with cloud computing is a possible good solution for decentralization and
could provide total privacy to users.
3.2. Data Security
Blockchain systems by default inherit data security features. Loads of data are trans-
acted and loaded into the cloud, so security of data is one of the main concerns in cloud
computing that is provided by blockchain–cloud integration in different sectors. Even the
storage of information on the cloud in the field of the Internet of Things (IoT) is a major
test. IoT devices put away information, such as the individual data of the house proprietor
including their voice accounts, video films, their family things, their property, and their
own propensities in cloud, and the destruction of this information can hurt the individual
security including assaults, theft, and illicit selling of the individual’s information for
cash. These conditions represent a danger to the IoT and cloud foundation. The answer to
this issue is the utilization of blockchain in cloud computing, which has the capability of
providing upgraded security to the entire engineering.
3.3. Adaptability
In blockchain applications, the quantity of exchanges in blockchain organizations
can be tremendous. Blockchain has amazing information handling techniques to have
large-scale exchanges for empowering adaptable blockchain services. Therefore, in this
regard, cloud computing can provide on-demand services for blockchain activities, because
of its scalability abilities. In this way, the blend of blockchain and cloud computing can
provide an exceptionally versatile coordinated system.
3.4. More Efficient Supply Chain Management
Blockchain is the technology that will help to develop cost effective and more efficient
ways of supply chain management. Blockchain enables better end-to-end tracking of goods
and services, and it can be incorporated into cloud computing for much better results for the
supply chain industry. A significant challenge of the supply chain management industry is
to consistently monitor all vehicles in its organization, their present areas, time for which
a vehicle remained in one spot, to set up correspondence between different vehicles. In
a similar way, tracing different services such as products, parcels, etc., deal with issues
because of the centralized methodology of their design. Blockchain has sufficient potential
for tracing these goods and services.
3.5. Tolerance of Faults and Errors
Blockchain requires replicating information over the network over different servers,
and this can be achieved by using Cloud. This will also limit the single point of risks from
the point of view of the disturbance of any cloud hub, so that blockchain can provide
uninterrupted services.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 6 of 31
4. Impact Areas of Blockchain in Cloud Computing
Cloud computing is one of the key complementing technologies that support the
creation and functioning of blockchains. Some of the prominent advantages of Blockchain–
Cloud integration have been discussed in the previous section. In this section, we explore
the key areas of Cloud computing which have undergone significant transformations as a
result of integration with Blockchain technology. “Security”, “Privacy”, and “Storage” are
areas of Cloud computing wherein numerous advancements have been observed since its
integration with Cloud. Section 6 discusses the bibliometric analysis for all three areas and
demonstrates the interests of researchers through publication patterns. Moreover, it has
been realized that, to facilitate the growth of Cloud computing, it is essential to overcome
the roadblocks of data security and privacy for which blockchain seems a perfect match.
Table 1 summarizes some of the prominent works for the mentioned areas.
Table 1. Blockchain impact areas in Cloud Computing.
Theme Publications
Cloud Impact Areas
Security [9–12]
Privacy [13–17]
Storage [18–24]
Data security and user privacy are major concerns for Cloud adoption. Blockchain inte-
gration with Cloud has the potential to mitigate the challenges of security and privacy [10].
The distribution of vast volumes of data over a Blockchain–Cloud environment improves
accuracy and minimizes cost [22]. Furthermore, improved access control mechanisms
can be implemented in a Cloud environment through means of blockchain integration.
As most Cloud organizations follow a centralized access control mechanism, integration
with blockchain will infuse decentralization, preventing tampering or leakage of data via
internal cloud managers [15]. Blockchain-enabled cloud solutions will ensure an efficient
framework for identity access control, thereby supporting privacy protection [25–28]. Cloud
auditing is another such area wherein privacy is of the utmost importance, as it involves
the tracking and logging of all operations and their relevant data. Blockchain integration
with Cloud will ensure preserving the provenance of data from being violated within the
cloud ecosystem. The decentralized nature of blockchain will facilitate securing the origin
of data and information on data owners, thereby solving one of the major concerns of cloud
storage applications.
Blockchain-data-based cloud data entry protection mechanism. Over the years, cloud
computing developed a lot, but data security and trusted computing remains a challenge
in many cloud applications. Though scholars have conducted many kinds of research,
and many models have been proposed by them, including the data integrity test and
multiparity calculation; they still face problems such as excessive computational com-
plexity and the lack of scalability. Blockchain technology has emerged as a new dynamic
computing paradigm in which data blocks present in the database are generated through
a crypto-graphic algorithm. The key features of blockchain, such as decentralization,
anonymity, auditability, and persistence have made it possible to use blockchain technology
in many fields. The topic discussed in this paper is how Blockchain technology can be
applied to cloud computing using the security mechanism to improve the performance in
secure storage and secure computing. The paper analyzes the requirements of security in
cloud storage data and also examines cypher text access control technology and integrity
verification technology.
Ref. [29] discusses the distributed virtual machine agent model deployed in the cloud
using mobile agent technology. The multi-tenants cooperate with each other ensuring
data trust verification through the virtual machine agent. The virtual machine agent
can complete the monitoring and verification tasks, which are essential for building the
blockchain-based integrity protection mechanism. This integrity-protection mechanism
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 7 of 31
based on blockchain is built utilizing the virtual machine proxy model and the unique
hash value generated by the Merkel hash tree. It is used in monitoring the data change
utilizing the smart contract in the blockchain database and the data that is used in the
current time. Here, users can issue a message for the data tempering and the creation of
blockchain-based cloud data integrity verification scheme is completed by “block-and-
response” mode [30]. Ref. [31] examines the decentralized virtual machine specialist model
deployed in the cloud utilizing the mobile agent innovation. The multi-tenants cooperate
with one another, guaranteeing the information trust check through the virtual machine
specialist. The virtual machine specialist can observe and check jobs, which is essential
for building the blockchain-based trustworthiness insurance instrument. Here, users of
the system can signal information tampering and the construction of a blockchain-based
cloud information-verification system [32]. Ref. [33] constructs a technology application
scheme of blockchain-based cloud computing by combining the plus points of blockchain
and cloud computing. This scheme provides the protection and integrity check of the data.
Moreover, the multi-parity scheme that is based on the blockchain has been projected. The
security mechanisms and algorithms in blockchain and the general schemes of scalable
multiparity computing have been discussed and studied.
5. Application Areas of Blockchain–Cloud Integration
The concept of Cloud computing has had a prevalent computing model for almost
a decade. The last couple of years have seen a surge in the number of organizations
migrating their businesses to the Cloud. The ubiquitous availability of resources, attractive
pricing models, customized solutions, and numerous market players are some of the
factors that contribute to the success of Cloud computing. In recent years, Cloud has
emerged as a synonym for computing and storage capabilities that can be accessed over the
internet. Cloud has transformed itself into a generic computing paradigm that supports and
compliments the functions of other new-age technologies. Containerization, AI, Internet of
Things, and Big data analytics are some of the services to have become a part of the larger
pool of services being offered by leading Cloud Service Providers (CSPs). Researchers
are truly of the belief that the integration of Cloud with other technologies can result
in the creation of more robust, scalable, and secure applications. Blockchain technology
is the newest entrant to the list of technologies looking forward to Cloud integration.
Blockchain has merged as a new-age technology and has been exciting researchers and
industry professionals for the last couple of years. The distributed ledger technology
allows individuals to conduct transactions in a secure and automated manner. Figure 1
represents a reference architecture for Blockchain–Cloud integration. In this section, we
discuss the integration of Blockchain technology with Cloud computing. During the course
of our research, we carried out a comprehensive literature review and identified five
key application areas of Blockchain–Cloud integration: (1) Healthcare, (2) Supply Chain,
(3) Finance, (4) Smart Cities, and (5) Agriculture. Table 2 summarizes some of the prominent
works for the above application areas.
Table 2. Blockchain–Cloud Application Areas.
Theme Publications
Blockchain and Cloud
Healthcare [34–41]
Supply Chain [42–47]
Finance [48–51]
Smart Cities [52–59]
Agriculture [60–65]
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 8 of 31
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Blockchain–Cloud Reference Architecture. 
Table 2. Blockchain–Cloud Application Areas 
 Theme Publications 
Blockchain and Cloud 
Healthcare [34–41] 
Supply Chain [42–47] 
Finance [48–51] 
Smart Cities [52–59] 
Agriculture [60–65] 
5.1. Smart City 
In the recent past, the concept of “smart cities” has attracted considerable curiosity 
among researchers across the world. The rise of Cloud computing and the Internet of 
Things has provided immense infrastructure support for the creation of smart cities. 
Blockchain being the new member of the bandwagon of technologies, aims to facilitate the 
creation of citizen-centric applications for a smart city environment. Blockchain has the 
ability to operate an entire smart city in an autonomous fashion when combined with IoT, 
AI, and Cloud computing. Blockchain-enabled IoT solutions are becoming more and more 
popular among industry players as they support ubiquitous sensing capabilities and in-
telligent information communication and processing. Blockchain enables the trusted and 
transparent exchange of information between IoT devices through the use of smart con-
tracts and consensus algorithms. Energy trading and distribution platforms, traffic man-
agement systems, smart homes, and IoT applications are some of the many application 
areas of blockchain integration in smart cities. Moreover, blockchain has the potential to 
enhance the extent of e-governance, thereby improving citizen participation and formu-
lation of government schemes in a smart city. 
5.2. Smart Healthcare 
Blockchain has revolutionized the healthcare sector by providing applications for 
health record management, medical insurance claims, and pharmaceutical supply chains. 
The technology has enabled health professionals to manage patient data in a secure man-
ner without third-party intervention. Blockchain has enabled government authorities to 
roll out better healthcare schemes on the basis of the health records of its citizens. Diag-
nostic reports of patients can now easily be communicated to doctors and insurance firms 
for the purpose of faster claim settlements. The immutable nature of blockchain allows it 
to ensure trust and accountability and facilitate the creation of a patient-centric healthcare 
system. Complementary technologies of the likes of AI, Cloud, and IoT are a great success 
when combined with blockchain in creating modern day healthcare systems. The Internet 
Figure 1. Blockchain–Cloud Reference Architecture.
5.1. Smart City
In the recent past, the concept of “smart cities” has attracted considerable curiosity
among researchers across the world. The rise of Cloud computing and the Internet of Things
has provided immense infrastructure support for the creation of smart cities. Blockchain
being the new member of the bandwagon of technologies, aims to facilitate the creation
of citizen-centric applications for a smart city environment. Blockchain has the ability
to operate an entire smart city in an autonomous fashion when combined with IoT, AI,
and Cloud computing. Blockchain-enabled IoT solutions are becoming more and more
popular among industry players as they support ubiquitous sensing capabilities and
intelligent information communication and processing. Blockchain enables the trusted and
transparent exchange of information between IoT devices through the use of smart contracts
and consensus algorithms. Energy trading and distribution platforms, traffic management
systems, smart homes, and IoT applications are some of the many application areas of
blockchain integration in smart cities. Moreover, blockchain has the potential to enhance
the extent of e-governance, thereby improving citizen participation and formulation of
government schemes in a smart city.
5.2. Smart Healthcare
Blockchain has revolutionized the healthcare sector by providing applications for
health record management, medical insurance claims, and pharmaceutical supply chains.
The technology has enabled health professionals to manage patient data in a secure manner
without third-party intervention. Blockchain has enabled government authorities to roll
out better healthcare schemes on the basis of the health records of its citizens. Diagnostic
reports of patients can now easily be communicated to doctors and insurance firms for the
purpose of faster claim settlements. The immutable nature of blockchain allows it to ensure
trust and accountability and facilitate the creation of a patient-centric healthcare system.
Complementary technologies of the likes of AI, Cloud, and IoT are a great success when
combined with blockchain in creating modern day healthcare systems. The Internet of
Medical Things, Edge-based healthcare systems, and AI-enabled medical imaging systems
are some of the many areas of blockchain integration. Post pandemic, numerous works
have been published discussing the applicability of Blockchain technology, IoT, and AI for
the purpose of contact tracing and vaccination certificate distribution and validation.
5.3. Supply Chain
The recent studies in the area of blockchain technology depict its popularity beyond
the realm of cryptocurrencies. Supply Chain Management (SCM) is one of the many
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 9 of 31
leading areas discussing the applicability of blockchain technology. Numerous works in
the past have been published stating the use of blockchain technology for managing food,
agriculture, retail, hospitality, and pharmaceutical supply chains. SCM has always been
a challenging task for organizations, and, specifically post pandemic, the complexity and
challenges have increased manyfold. SCM holds the key to numerous economic activities
of a country, and any disruption may lead to large fiscal deficits and job losses. Companies
need to modernize SCM practices in order to stay relevant and possess a competitive
advantage. Blockchain integration with SCM serves this purpose by providing viable
methods of asset tracking while ensuring security and data integrity. Data being generated
at every stage of the supply chain are recorded in the form of transactions. Blockchain-
enabled systems are transparent in nature and support the real-time data collection of a
product across the entire supply chain. The entire lifecycle of a product can be managed
using blockchain technology while ensuring quality control. Blockchain technology has the
potential to contribute to various aspects of SCM such as physical and digital asset tracking;
tracking orders and payments; and managing invoices, licenses, and copyrights. The
decentralized nature of blockchain enables a continuous information flow and facilitates
the seamless sharing of this information between suppliers, vendors, manufactures, and
end-user customers across the entire supply chain. The absence of a central authority, the
presence of a distributed ledger, and a trust-based ecosystems enable blockchain to weave
a network of complex assembly lines.
5.4. Agriculture
Blockchain technology can be seen as an enabler for the agriculture sector. Removal of
numerous intermediatory entities and direct communication between farmer and the end
user are the biggest advantages that blockchain technology provides to the agriculture sec-
tor. Smart-contract-enabled trading platforms are enabling farmers to sell their produce at
favorable rates directly to the end customers. Blockchain is a great supporter of the concept
of information-intensive farming that involves Agri data assimilation and intelligent deci-
sion making. Smart agriculture that involves the use of new-age technologies is inevitable
for the farmers to adopt as it is the only means of rural development and revitalization of
the farmer economy. A Blockchain-enabled token-based economy can provide a secure and
efficient trading platforms for assisting farmers in trading their crop produce.
6. Blockchain–Cloud Adoption Challenges
6.1. Limited Interoperability
Multiple, enterprise-grade blockchain platforms exist that can handle enterprise trans-
actions. However, there are no standards allowing them to communicate with each other.
For widespread adoption to occur, there needs to be some kind of proven cross-platform
system that allows businesses running on different blockchain platforms to collaborate.
However, currently, no such system exists. It would be hard for a company using Hyper-
ledger Fabric to coexist with its partner using Corda services without having compatibility
issues. Blockchain Platform Services have begun to address this issue. Hyperledger and
Enterprise Ethereum Alliance, two of the most popular enterprise blockchain platforms,
have decided to work together to define standards to enable interoperability. However,
there is still more work to be completed to address this concern and enable the mass
adoption of enterprise blockchains.
6.2. Regulatory Issues
Enterprise blockchain technology is still in its infancy, with a small number of pilot
projects being completed. This makes it difficult for lawmakers to set forth adequate
rules and regulations for managing enterprise blockchain networks. For a vast majority
of enterprises, these networks will be distributed across the world, making it a complex
process for governments to establish jurisdiction. Globally dispersed blockchain networks
will make it hard for governments to establish rules around data storage and sharing. Given
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 10 of 31
the network’s complexity, once an illicit transaction has occurred, authorities may find it
challenging to trace it down and identify the legal obligations of the parties involved.
6.3. Regulation Deficiency
One of the major challenges in the blockchain industry is that there is no regulation
for blockchain in any organization. Most organizations in the IT world are opting to use
blockchain technology to make transactions. Even sometimes, many products depend on
this technology. Moreover, with no specific regulation, it is becoming difficult to manage
and regularize, as no one is following any rules that are specific to the blockchain market.
So, to make blockchain work and to overcome challenges in the application of blockchain
in the real world, the government and other such governing parties need to set up rules
and regulations or protocol for blockchain to be successfully adopted in the market.
6.4. Tensions Regarding Criminal Activities and Cybersecurity
News about people using digital currencies for criminal activities and conducting
dubious transactions has painted a negative picture of blockchain technology. According
to blockchain data company Chainalysis, just 0.34% of all cryptocurrency transactions in
2020 were illegal, but there was a 311% increase in ransomware incidents. The thought
of such risks is holding some enterprises back from adopting blockchain technology. One
of the most attractive features of blockchain technology is that it is secure by nature, yet
companies are not comfortable with deploying blockchain in their operations. Blockchain
is vulnerable to phishing scams, but this generally affects cryptocurrency transactions and
not enterprise blockchains. Ransomware attacks still pose a threat to enterprise blockchains.
However, strong multi-factor authentication can be used to stop these.
6.5. Uncertain ROI
The return on investment from a blockchain solution is a major concern for companies
implementing blockchain technology. As discussed earlier, blockchain adoption is a cost-
intensive affair, which makes ROI crucial. According to an IBM study, organizations expect
just around 20% ROI on their blockchain investments in the next 4 to 5 years and about
50% ROI in 10 years. Predicting ROI from a blockchain project is a complex process, and
there is no proven formula for the blockchain ROI calculation. This is a major challenge
that holds organizations back from adopting blockchain technology.
6.6. Integration of Blockchain–Cloud with Legacy Systems
Integrating legacy systems with the new blockchain system is a major challenge the
industry is facing nowadays. To completely integrate blockchain with legacy systems de-
signers have to restructure the complete system and have to integrate different technologies.
While integrating blockchain with legacy systems, a few issues arise such as there is a
shortage of skilled labor (or you can say there is a lack of developers with the proper skill
set for the blockchain industry). Due to this, sometimes organizations have to rely on a
third party that further softens this problem. Therefore, to complete this transition, organi-
zations have to invest a significant amount of their time and resources. Most companies
nowadays are encouraging the transition to blockchain, as there are many indices of loss of
data. Companies are not willing to make changes to their databases and this contributes to
great risk. Data loss or data corruption are two major losses IT companies may face, and,
with the adoption of blockchain technology, these companies benefit. With the growing
market demands, new companies are investing and developing new systems or ways to
integrate blockchain and legacy systems. One example of this type of product is the Modex
Blockchain database. The product is developed with the mind that users who use this do
not have much knowledge of blockchain, and thus it reduces the chances of the loss of
sensitive data.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 11 of 31
6.7. Low Scalability
Scalability came as another challenge in implementing blockchain. Blockchain works
fine in the case of a small number of users, but what will happen when mass integration
takes place. When it comes to the number of users, Ethereum and Bitcoin have the highest
number of users on their networks, but they are having difficulty managing and dealing
with them. With the increasing number of users on the network, the transition takes a longer
process. Thus, the transition costs are higher than usual and, in turn, result in more users
on the network. It can take days, with the entire process of transaction leading to making
the technology less and less lucrative and worthwhile. A few other blockchain technologies
adopted showed a faster output but eventually slowed down when the number of users
logging into the system increased. Thus, this challenge needs to be managed quickly, as it
is making the entire technology dull.
6.8. High-Energy Consumption
Another challenge that comes up is energy consumption. The majority of blockchain
technology follows the blockchain framework and uses Proof of Work as a consensus
algorithm. However, Proof of Work needs computational power to keep the system alive.
Mining leads to solving complex equations using the computer. This, in turn, leads to
the PC utilizing more and more electricity in overcoming the situation when you start
mining. As of now, the miners are utilizing 0.2% of the total electricity, and if it continues
to increase then they might take even more power than the world can provide. This
becomes one of the primary challenges in adopting blockchain technology that needs to
be dealt with. But how? Blockchain can use consensus methods to authorize transactions.
Consensus algorithms used require much less energy to process. This is the only way to
make blockchain technology a blessing again.
7. Allied Technologies
The combination of innovative technologies such as Cloud Computing, Blockchain,
and IoT has proven to be beneficial for designing new-age IoT solutions. Even through IoT
and Blockchain are distinctive technologies, they both have the potential to come along
and create futuristic solutions. Blockchain can be seen as a solution to existing concerns of
privacy and security in the IoT domain [66–68]. The use of blockchain technology along
with cloud computing can be seen as a promising solution for numerous IoT applications.
Identity management, data storage, and autonomous processing are some of the impact
areas wherein Blockchain–Cloud integration can prove beneficial for IoT applications.
Supply Chain Management, Smart cities, and Intelligent healthcare systems are some
of the most popular research areas of IoT which have recently found the applicability
of Blockchain–Cloud integration [69,70]. Smart contracts have proved their significant
worth for managing and operating supply chains and smart cities. The concepts of the
Internet of Vehicles (IoV) and Device-to-Device communication are majorly supported
by Blockchain–Cloud integration, wherein blockchain supports the secure exchange of
data between devices and establishes trust and traceability among various passengers.
The availability, interoperability, and standardization of data is ensured by the Cloud
end. Talking of intelligent healthcare systems, data collected from a variety of sensors is
exchanged, stored, and processed using Blockchain–Cloud integration. The combination of
these technologies assists the doctor to monitor the health of their patient on a real-time
basis with utmost efficiency and privacy protection.
The rapid growth in the number of IoT devices has led to large volumes of data
being transmitted to the Cloud end, thus resulting in massive levels of network bandwidth
consumption. In order to resolve the problems of centralized failure and large bandwidth
consumptions, an extension of Cloud was introduced, known as edge computing. Data col-
lected by various IoT devices are stored on different edge servers for faster processing and
high-frequency real-time access [71–73]. Storing and processing sensitive data over edge
servers continues to be a challenge and thereby involves an integration with blockchain
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 12 of 31
technology. Blockchain helps to create a secure decentralized system that supports privacy
protection, encrypted data storage and access, secure access control, intrusion detection,
and effective authentication mechanisms. The consensus mechanisms of blockchain assist
in managing distributed databases spread across multiple edge servers. Blockchain–Cloud
integration with edge computing helps to create a distributed edge-computing environment
that supports the tracking of assets and integrity of transactions among IoT devices [74].
The decentralized nature of the system will help to prevent any malicious attacks from
insiders, along with maintaining data transparency. Blockchain–Cloud integration will
ensure enhanced cooperation between IoT devices and edge servers. Blockchain–Cloud
integration with edge computing is mutually beneficial, as edge servers assist in manag-
ing mining time and improve the scalability of the blockchain. Blockchain coupled with
6G-enabled edge services and edge-computing-based autonomous vehicles are some of the
most prominent research areas for researchers working on Blockchain–Edge integration.
The third biggest allied technology for Blockchain–Cloud integration is AI. The mas-
sive production of data from IoT devices, web applications, and social media websites has
given rise to numerous applications of AI and deep learning [75–78]. The complexity of
machine learning models and the large variety and volume of data which they process
make it a mandate for them to be hosted on Cloud. However, the centralized nature of AI
could result in issues relating to data breaches and the authenticity of the data [79]. The
combination of blockchain and AI gives rise to a new concept called Decentralized AI,
wherein data are stored and shared in a secure manner using digital signatures and encryp-
tion techniques are stored in a decentralized manner. Trusted decision-making and proper
data governance mechanisms are in place one Blockchain–Cloud integration is coupled
with AI. The use of smart contacts can be extremely beneficial for creating autonomous
systems, as decisions taken by an intelligent machine can be verified and validated by
miner nodes of the blockchain. Moreover, blockchain integration with AI can support the
concept of decentralized learning and involving the secure and trustworthy distribution
of decision outcomes, hyperparameter values, and weights in neural networks [80–83].
Decentralized learning will involve the coming together of autonomous intelligent ma-
chines that can contribute to accurate decisions. Blockchain–Cloud integration with AI
will the support storing and processing of tamper-proof data that can be cryptographically
signed before distribution and subsequently validated before further processing. Smart
city is one such specific domain that finds the applicability of all allied technologies along
with Blockchain–Cloud integration [84]. It is through the use of these allied technologies
that we can create a truly smart, autonomous, and sustainable smart city. Table 3 presents
a comparative analysis of some of the prominent works concerning Blockchain-Cloud
integration with allied technologies.
Table 3. Blockchain–Cloud Integration with Allied Technologies.
Serial No Allied Technology Cloud Deployment
Model Cloud Impact Area Blockchain Type Blockchain
Platform
[85] IoT, AI Private Cloud Computation Private Ethereum
[86] IoT Public/Private Cloud Storage Private -
[87] IoT, Deep Learning Public Cloud Security, Privacy Private Ethereum
[88] IoT Private Cloud Security Consortium Ethereum
[89] IoT Private Cloud Security, Storage Consortium -
[90] Edge Computing Public Cloud Computation Consortium -
[91] Edge Computing Public Cloud Computation - -
[92] Edge Computing Private Cloud Security, Storage Multichain -
[93] AI, Edge Computing Private Cloud Computation, Security,
Privacy Public, Private -
[94] AI, IoT Public Cloud Computation, Storage Public Customized
Blockchain
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 13 of 31
Table 3. Cont.
Serial No Allied Technology Cloud Deployment
Model Cloud Impact Area Blockchain Type Blockchain
Platform
[95] Edge Computing, AI Public Cloud Privacy Private Ethereum
[96] AI, IoT Private Cloud Security, Computation Public -
[97] IoT Public/Private Cloud Security, Privacy,
Storage Public -
[98] Edge Computing,
Deep Learning Public Cloud Security, Computation Private Ethereum
[99] IoT, Edge Computing Private Cloud Security, Privacy Private -
8. Literature Survey
8.1. Methodology
This paper follows a multi-step research methodology for analyzing publishing pat-
terns in the field of Blockchain technology and Cloud computing. A survey was conducted
based on the Scopus database [100]. Articles published between 2017 and 2021 were con-
sidered for the survey. During the process of the publication search, we ensured that the
papers selected were written in English language. The primary step involved searching
publications on the basis of keywords such as “Blockchain AND Cloud”. We ensured
that the keywords were mentioned in either the paper’s abstract or title. The results of
the first step led to the identification of three prominent sub-domains wherein Blockchain
and Cloud find applicability. The subsequent step involved searching publications on the
basis of keywords “Blockchain AND Fintech”; “Blockchain AND Smart City”; “Blockchain
AND Healthcare”. Furthermore, we analyzed our search results on the basis of three
dimensions which led to enhanced insights with respect to the research being conducted
in Blockchain technology and Cloud computing. Finally, we have a subsection discussing
publications focusing on Blockchain-as-as-Service (BaaS). The keyword “BaaS” has been
used for the classification of works that talk about either the implementation or the use of
Blockchain-as-as-Service. The following is the set of keywords that were searched during
our survey.
1. Blockchain + Cloud Computing
2. Blockchain + Cloud + Smart Healthcare
3. Blockchain + Cloud + Finance/DeFi
4. Blockchain + Cloud + Agriculture
5. Blockchain + Cloud + Supply Chain
6. Blockchain + Cloud + Smart City
7. Blockchain + Cloud Security
8. Blockchain + Cloud Privacy
9. Blockchain + Cloud Storage
8.2. Blockchain–Cloud Application Areas
Figure 2 illustrates the comparison between prominent application areas with respect
to the number of publications from the year 2017. Our survey indicated the abovementioned
five subdomains as the most notable ones with respect to works concerning Blockchain and
Cloud integration.
Figure 3 describes publication distribution in terms of article classification such as
conference papers, book chapters, articles, conference review papers, etc. Except in the case
of healthcare, all other sub-domains have conference papers constituting the largest section
in terms of works being published.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 14 of 31
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 31 
 
 
6. Blockchain + Cloud + Smart City 
7. Blockchain + Cloud Security 
8. Blockchain + Cloud Privacy 
9. Blockchain + Cloud Storage 
8.2. Blockchain–Cloud Application Areas 
Figure 2 illustrates the comparison between prominent application areas with respect 
to the number of publications from the year 2017. Our survey indicated the abovemen-
tioned five subdomains as the most notable ones with respect to works concerning Block-
chain and Cloud integration. 
 
Figure 2. Publication count comparison among application areas. 
Figure 3 describes publication distribution in terms of article classification such as 
conference papers, book chapters, articles, conference review papers, etc. Except in the 
case of healthcare, all other sub-domains have conference papers constituting the largest 
section in terms of works being published. 
 
Figure 3. Publication classification comparison among application areas. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Healthcare Finance Smart City Supply Chain Agriculture
Publication Count
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
0 50 100 150 200 250
Conference Paper
Conference Review
Book
Editorial
Conference
Paper
Article
Conference
Review
Review Book
Book
Chapter
Editorial
Finance 30 18 4 4 2 2 1
Healthcare 74 113 36 25 2 17 1
Smart City 52 43 17 4 2 4 0
Supply Chain 60 38 20 12 4 9 1
Agriculture 16 16 10 5 0 3 0
Publication Classification
Figure 2. Publication count comparison among application areas.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 31 
 
 
6. Blockchain + Cloud + Smart City 
7. Blockchain + Cloud Security 
8. Blockchain + Cloud Privacy 
9. Blockchain + Cloud Storage 
8.2. Blockchain–Cloud Application Areas 
Figure 2 illustrates the comparison between prominent application areas with respect 
to the number of publications from the year 2017. Our survey indicated the abovemen-
tioned five subdomains as the most notable ones with respect to works concerning Block-
chain and Cloud integration. 
 
Figure 2. Publication count comparison among application areas. 
Figure 3 describes publication distribution in terms of article classification such as 
conference papers, book chapters, articles, conference review papers, etc. Except in the 
case of healthcare, all other sub-domains have conference papers constituting the largest 
section in terms of works being published. 
 
Figure 3. Publication classification comparison among application areas. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Healthcare Finance Smart City Supply Chain Agriculture
Publication Count
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
0 50 100 150 200 250
Conference Paper
Conference Review
Book
Editorial
Conference
Paper
Article
Conference
Review
Review Book
Book
Chapter
Editorial
Finance 30 18 4 4 2 2 1
Healthcare 74 113 36 25 2 17 1
Smart City 52 43 17 4 2 4 0
Supply Chain 60 38 20 12 4 9 1
Agriculture 16 16 10 5 0 3 0
Publication Classification
Figure 3. Publication classification comparison among application areas.
Figure 4 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning the
use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of Supply Chain Management. India leads from
the front, followed by China and The United States. India having the maximum numbers
indicates the creation of modern supply chain solutions, which is an essential part of the
larger plan to be the global manufacturing hub.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 15 of 31
 
 
 
 
Sensors 2022, 22, x. https://doi.org/10.3390/xxxxx www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors 
 
Figure 4. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Supply Chain. 
Figure 5 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the healthcare sector. India is the largest contributor 
followed, by the Unites States and China. The graph reinstates the fact that countries such 
as India and China are aggressively working on creating new-age healthcare solutions 
that combine the use of multiple technologies. 
 
Figure 5. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Healthcare. 
Figure 6 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of Finance. The graph represents the top five 
regions for works involving the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration for Finance related 
applications. China has the highest numbers, with India and The United States following. 
33%
22%
25%
3%
3% 8%
4% 2%
Supply Chain
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
India
33%
United States
15%China
12%
Australia
10%
South Korea
9%
United Kingdom
8%
Saudi Arabia
8%
United Arab 
Emirates
5%
Healthcare
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 4. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Supply Chain.
Figure 5 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the healthcare sector. India is the largest contributor
followed, by the Unites States and China. The graph reinstates the fact that countries such
as India and China are aggressively working on creating new-age healthcare solutions that
combine the use of multiple technologies.
 
 
 
 
Sensors 2022, 22, x. https://doi.org/10.3390/xxxxx www.mdpi.com/journal/sensors 
 
Figure 4. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Supply Chain. 
Figure 5 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the healthcare sector. India is the largest contributor 
followed, by the Unites States and China. The graph reinstates the fact that countries such 
as India and China are aggressively working on creating new-age healthcare solutions 
that combine the use of multiple technologies. 
 
Figure 5. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Healthcare. 
Figure 6 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of Finance. The graph represents the top five 
regions for works involving the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration for Finance related 
applications. China has the highest numbers, with India and The United States following. 
33%
22%
25%
3%
3% 8%
4% 2%
Supply Chain
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
India
33%
United States
15%China
12%
Australia
10%
South Korea
9%
United Kingdom
8%
Saudi Arabia
8%
United Arab 
Emirates
5%
Healthcare
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 5. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Healthcare.
Figure 6 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of Finance. The graph represents the top five
regions for works involving the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration for Finance related
applications. China has the highest numbers, with India and The United States following.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 16 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Finance. 
Figure 7 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of agriculture. China, India, and the United 
States are the top runners. The large numbers coming from China indicate the efforts 
which they have been making towards sustainable agriculture. 
 
Figure 7. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Agriculture. 
Figure 8 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain–Cloud integration for the creation of smart cities. India and 
China are the most prominent sources of publications, which is a direct correlation to the 
fact that both countries have made significant investments in relation to creating smart 
cities in the past few years. 
India
21%
United States
14%
China
45%
Australia
10%
United Kingdom
10%
Finance
India United States China Australia United Kingdom
23%
17%
33%
7%
13%
7%
Agriculture
India United States China
South Korea United Kingdom United Arab Emirates
Figure 6. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Finance.
Figure 7 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning the
use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of agriculture. China, India, and the United States
are the top runners. The large numbers coming from China indicate the efforts which they
have been making towards sustainable agriculture.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Finance. 
Figure 7 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain and Cloud in the area of agriculture. China, India, and the United 
States are the top runners. The large numbers coming from China indicate the efforts 
which they have been making towards sustainable agriculture. 
 
Figure 7. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Agriculture. 
Figure 8 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain–Cloud integration for the creation of smart cities. India and 
China are the most prominent sources of publications, which is a direct correlation to the 
fact that both countries have made significant investments in relation to creating smart 
cities in the past few years. 
India
21%
United States
14%
China
45%
Australia
10%
United Kingdom
10%
Finance
India United States China Australia United Kingdom
23%
17%
33%
7%
13%
7%
Agriculture
India United States China
South Korea United Kingdom United Arab Emirates
Figure 7. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Agriculture.
Figure 8 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the applicability of Blockchain–Cloud integration for the creation of smart cities. India and
China are the most prominent sources of publications, which is a direct correlation to the
fact that both countries have made significant investments in relation to creating smart
cities in the past few years.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 17 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Smart Cities. 
 
Figure 11. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Cloud Security. 
Figure 12 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain technology and privacy aspect of Cloud computing. China 
has a 41% share of the total number of publications. 
28%
13%
19%
11%
9%
7%
7%
6%
Smart City
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
20%
17%
40%
6%
5%
5% 5% 2%
Security
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 8. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Smart Cities.
8.3. Cloud Impct Areas
Figure 9 illustrates the publication comparison between key areas of Cloud computing
which have seen the highest impacts as a result of blockchain integration. Our survey indi-
cates that security, privacy, and storage are the top three segments of the Cloud ecosystem,
to which blockchain technology has significantly contributed.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 17 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Smart Cities. 
8.3. Cloud Impct Areas 
Figure 9 illustrates the publication comparison between key areas of Cloud compu-
ting which have seen the highest impacts as a result of blockchain integration. Our survey 
indicates that security, privacy, and storage are the top three segments of the Cloud eco-
system, to which blockchain technology has significantly contributed. 
 
Figure 9. Year specific Publication Count comparison among Cloud impact areas. 
Figure 10 represents the publication classifications of all three Cloud impact areas 
since the year 2017. The graph clearly indicates conference papers to be the largest section 
in term of works being published. Cloud Security is one particular impact area which has 
seen the highest number of publications in recent times. 
28%
13%
19%
11%
9%
7%
7%
6%
Smart City
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Publication Count
Security Privacy Storage
Figure 9. Year specific Publication Count comparison among Cloud impact areas.
Figure 10 represents the publication classifications of all three Cloud impact areas
since the year 2017. The graph clearly indicates conference papers to be the largest section
in term of works being published. Cloud Security is one particular impact area which has
seen the highest number of publications in recent times.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 18 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 10. Publication classification comparison among Cloud impact areas. 
Figure 11 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain technology and Cloud security. China has a significant lead 
on the rest of its contemporaries. Cloud security is one such impact area which is seeing 
equal numbers of contributions from countries such as South Korea, the United Kingdom, 
and Saudi Arabia. 
 
Figure 11. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Cloud Security. 
Figure 12 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain technology and privacy aspect of Cloud computing. China 
has a 41% share of the total number of publications. 
0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700
Conference Paper
Article
Conference Review
Review
Book
Book Chapter
Editorial
Conference
Paper
Article
Conference
Review
Review Book
Book
Chapter
Editorial
Storage 327 279 78 14 3 16 0
Privacy 302 299 106 17 3 20 1
Security 579 515 149 5 6 33 2
Publication Classification
20%
17%
40%
6%
5%
5%
5% 2%
Security
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 10. Publication classification comparison among Cloud impact areas.
Figure 11 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the applicability of Blockchain technology and Cloud security. China has a significant lead
on the rest of its contemporaries. Cloud security is one such impact area which is seeing
equal numbers of contributions from countries such as South Korea, the United Kingdom,
and Saudi Arabia.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud and Smart Cities. 
 
Figure 11. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Cloud Security. 
Figure 12 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain technology and privacy aspect of Cloud computing. China 
has a 41% share of the total number of publications. 
28%
13%
19%
11%
9%
7%
7%
6%
Smart City
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
20%
17%
40%
6%
5%
5% 5% 2%
Security
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 11. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration
on Cloud Security.
Figure 12 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the applicability of Blockchain technology and privacy aspect of Cloud computing. China
has a 41% share of the total number of publications.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 19 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 12. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Privacy in Cloud. 
Figure 13 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain technology and Cloud storage. China has the highest con-
tributions with 48% of the total publications. 
 
Figure 13. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Cloud Storage. 
8.4. Blockchain-as-a-Service 
Figure 14 represents the publication classification for the area of Blockchain-as-a-Ser-
vice since the year 2017. The graph clearly indicates conference papers to be the largest 
section in terms of the works being published, followed by research articles. The graph 
suggests a rise in the number of conferences which are being conducted in the area of 
blockchain. Blockchain-as-a-Service being a recent research topic is attracting researchers 
to publish more of their work in the form of journal articles. 
16%
16%
41%
6%
5% 7%
6% 3%
Privacy
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
19%
14%
48%
8%
4% 3% 3% 1%
Storage
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 12. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration
on Privacy in Cloud.
Figure 13 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the applicability of Blockchain technology and Cloud storage. China has the highest
contributions with 48% of the total publications.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 12. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Privacy in Cloud. 
Figure 13 represents the country-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the applicability of Blockchain technology and Cloud storage. China has the highest con-
tributions with 48% of the total publications. 
 
Figure 13. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration 
on Cloud Storage. 
8.4. Blockchain-as-a-Service 
Figure 14 represents the publication classification for the area of Blockchain-as-a-Ser-
vice since the year 2017. The graph clearly indicates conference papers to be the largest 
section in terms of the works being published, followed by research articles. The graph 
suggests a rise in the number of conferences which are being conducted in the area of 
blockchain. Blockchain-as-a-Service being a recent research topic is attracting researchers 
to publish more of their work in the form of journal articles. 
16%
16%
41%
6%
5% 7%
6% 3%
Privacy
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
19%
14%
48%
8%
4% 3% 3% 1%
Storage
India United States China
Australia South Korea United Kingdom
Saudi Arabia United Arab Emirates
Figure 13. Region-specific publication distribution for the impact of Blockchain–Cloud integration
on Cloud Storage.
8.4. Blockchain-as-a-Service
Figure 14 represents the publication classification for the area of Blockchain-as-a-
Service since the year 2017. The graph clearly indicates conference papers to be the largest
section in terms of the works being published, followed by research articles. The graph
suggests a rise in the number of conferences which are being conducted in the area of
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 20 of 31
blockchain. Blockchain-as-a-Service being a recent research topic is attracting researchers
to publish more of their work in the form of journal articles.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 5 
 
 
 
Figure 14. Publication classification comparison for Blockchain-as-a-Service. 
57%
31%
6%
2%
4%
Publication Classification
Conference Paper
Article
Conference Review
Review
Book Chapter
Figure 14. Publication classification comparison for Blockchain-as-a-Service.
Figure 15 illustrates the region-specific publication for Blockchain-as-a-Service in terms
of publication count. Similar to other survey graphs, the trend continues to be in favor of
China and India as the leading publication destinations.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 20 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 14. Publication classification comparison for Blockchain-as-a-Service. 
Figure 15 illustrates the region-specific publication for Blockchain-as-a-Service in 
terms of publication count. Similar to other survey graphs, the trend continues to be in 
favor of China and India as the leading publication destinations. 
 
Figure 15. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain-as-a-Service. 
8.5. Blockchain–Cloud Allied Technologies 
Figure 16 illustrates the publication comparison between different allied technologies 
for Blockchain–Cloud integration. Our survey identifies the Internet of Things (IoT), Edge 
Computing, and AI/Deep Learning as the top three most prominent allied technologies 
that are currently being used in combination with Blockchain–Cloud integration. 
57%
31%
6%
2%
4%
Publication Classification
Conference Paper
Article
Conference Review
Review
Book Chapter
0
5
10
15
20
25
China India Australia South Korea United
States
United
Kingdom
Brazil Germany Spain Canada
Publication Count
Publication Count
Figure 15. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain-as-a-Service.
8.5. Blockchain–Cloud Allied Technologies
Figure 16 illustrates the publication comparison between different allied technologies
for Blockchain–Cloud integration. Our survey identifies the Internet of Things (IoT), Edge
Computing, and AI/Deep Learning as the top three most prominent allied technologies
that are currently being used in combination with Blockchain–Cloud integration.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 21 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 21 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 16. Year-specific Publication Count comparison among Allied Technologies. 
Figure 17 describes the publication distribution in terms of article classification such 
as conference papers, book chapters, articles, conference review papers, etc. 
 
Figure 17. Publication classification comparison for Allied Technologies. 
Figure 18 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with the IoT. China and India are leading 
from the front, followed by the United States. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Publication Count
IoT Edge Computing Deep Learning
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450
Conference Paper
Article
Conference Review
Review
Book Chapter
Book
Conference
Paper
Article
Conference
Review
Review Book Chapter Book
Deep Learning 32 39 94 6 6 2
Edge Computing 190 190 64 32 11 3
IoT 383 351 143 52 41 12
Publication Classification
Figure 16. Year-specific Publication Count comparison among Allied Technologies.
Figure 17 describes the publication distribution in terms of article classification such
as conference papers, book chapters, articles, conference review papers, etc.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 21 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 16. Year-specific Publication Count comparison among Allied Technologies. 
Figure 17 describes the publication distribution in terms of article classification such 
as conference papers, book chapters, articles, conference review papers, etc. 
 
Figure 17. Publication classification comparison for Allied Technologies. 
Figure 18 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with the IoT. China and India are leading 
from the front, followed by the United States. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
2021 2020 2019 2018 2017
Publication Count
IoT Edge Computing Deep Learning
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450
Conference Paper
Article
Conference Review
Review
Book Chapter
Book
Conference
Paper
Article
Conference
Review
Review Book Chapter Book
Deep Learning 32 39 94 6 6 2
Edge Computing 190 190 64 32 11 3
IoT 383 351 143 52 41 12
Publication Classification
Figure 17. Publication classification comparison for Allied Technologies.
Figure 18 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning the
use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with the IoT. China and India are leading from
the front, followed by the United States.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 22 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 22 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 18. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with IoT. 
Figure 19 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with Edge computing. China is the most 
prominent region with the highest number of contributions. 
 
Figure 19. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with Edge 
Computing. 
Figure 20 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with Deep Learning. 
24%
23%
12%
7%
6%
5%
5%
4%
4%
4%
3% 3%
Blockchain Cloud Inegration with IoT
China
India
United States
United Kingdom
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Canada
Italy
United Arab Emirates
35%
12%
15%
6%
6%
4%
4%
5%
5%
2% 2%
4%
Blockchain Cloud Integration with Edge 
China
India
United States
United Kingdom
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Canada
Italy
United Arab Emirates
Figure 18. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with IoT.
Figure 19 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with Edge computing. China is the most
prominent region with the highest number of contributions.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 22 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 18. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with IoT. 
Figure 19 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with Edge computing. China is the most 
prominent region with the highest number of contributions. 
 
Figure 19. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with Edge 
Computing. 
Figure 20 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning 
the use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with Deep Learning. 
24%
23%
12%
7%
6%
5%
5%
4%
4%
4%
3% 3%
Blockchain Cloud Inegration with IoT
China
India
United States
United Kingdom
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Canada
Italy
United Arab Emirates
35%
12%
15%
6%
6%
4%
4%
5%
5%
2% 2%
4%
Blockchain Cloud Integration with Edge 
China
India
United States
United Kingdom
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Canada
Italy
United Arab Emirates
Figure 19. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with Edge Computing.
Figure 20 represents the region-wise publication distribution for works concerning the
use of Blockchain–Cloud integration along with Deep Learning.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 23 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 23 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 20. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with Deep 
Learning. 
8.6. Research Growth Tajectorires 
Figure 21 illustrates a comparison between publication growth trajectories for differ-
ent blockchain application areas. The figure represents a relative publication growth 
among application areas and aims to assist readers to pick and choose a specific applica-
tion area for their research. 
 
Figure 21. Comparison of Publication Growth Trajectory among Blockchain Application Areas. 
Figure 22 illustrates a comparison between publication growth trajectories for differ-
ent Blockchain–Cloud impact areas. The figure represents a relative publication growth 
among different Cloud impact areas and aims to assist readers to pick and choose a re-
search problem in accordance with the publication growth trajectory of a specific impact 
area. 
23%
15%
17%
6%
10%
5%
6%
7%
4%
4%
1%
2%
Blockchain Cloud Integration with Deep Learning
China
India
United States
United Kingdom
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Canada
Italy
United Arab Emirates
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Healthcare Finance Smart City Supply Chain Agr iculture
G
ro
w
th
 P
er
ce
n
ta
ge
 P
o
in
ts
Publication Growth Tajectory
2021 2020 2019
Figure 20. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with Deep Learning.
8.6. Research Growth Tajectorires
Figure 21 illustrates a comparison between publication growth trajectories for different
blockchain application areas. The figure represents a relative publication growth among
application areas and aims to assist readers to pick and choose a specific application area
for their research.
Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 23 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 20. Region-specific publication distribution for Blockchain–Cloud integration with Deep 
Learning. 
8.6. Research Growth Tajectorires 
Figure 21 illustrates a comparison between publication growth trajectories for differ-
ent blockchain application areas. The figure represents a relative publication growth 
among application areas and aims to assist readers to pick and choose a specific applica-
tion area for their research. 
 
Figure 21. Comparison of Publication Growth Trajectory among Blockchain Application Areas. 
Figure 22 illustrates a comparison between publication growth trajectories for differ-
ent Blockchain–Cloud impact areas. The figure represents a relative publication growth 
among different Cloud impact areas and aims to assist readers to pick and choose a re-
search problem in accordance with the publication growth trajectory of a specific impact 
area. 
23%
15%
17%
6%
10%
5%
6%
7%
4%
4%
1%
2%
Blockchain Cloud Integration with Deep Learning
China
India
United States
United Kingdom
South Korea
Saudi Arabia
Australia
Canada
Italy
United Arab Emirates
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Healthcare Finance Smart City Supply Chain Agr iculture
G
ro
w
th
 P
er
ce
n
ta
ge
 P
o
in
ts
Publication Growth Tajectory
2021 2020 2019
Figure 21. Comparison of Publication Growth Trajectory among Blockchain Application Areas.
Figure 22 illustrates a comparison between publication growth trajectories for different
Blockchain–Cloud impact areas. The figure represents a relative publication growth among
different Cloud impact areas and aims to assist readers to pick and choose a research
problem in accordance with the publication growth trajectory of a specific impact area.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 24 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 24 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 22. Comparison of Publication Growth Trajectory among Blockchain–Cloud Impact Areas. 
9. Industry Players and Services 
The last couple of years have seen a widespread acceptance of blockchain across mul-
tiple domains, making it one of the fastest growing technologies in the IT industry. Seeing 
the rise of blockchain, many cloud service providers (CSP) came up with their own block-
chain solutions popularly known as Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS) [101–103]. Many tech 
giants such as Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Oracle, and IBM have invested heavily in 
blockchain technology, which showcases their conviction towards the integration of 
Blockchain and Cloud. The CSP intend to provide enterprise grade solutions for block-
chain coupled with the infrastructure support of Cloud. In this section, we discuss the 
three most prominent blockchain offerings by leading CSP and present a comparison 
among their blockchain solutions. Figure 23 illustrates the various stages of the Block-
chain–Cloud adoption journey that any industry player can adopt or customize according 
to its own business requirements. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Security Storage Privacy
G
ro
w
th
 P
er
ce
n
ta
ge
 P
o
in
ts
Publication Growth Tajectory
2021 2020 2019
Figure 22. Comparison of Publication Growth Trajectory among Blockchain–Cloud Impact Areas.
9. Industry Players and Services
The last couple of years have seen a widespread acceptance of blockchain across
multiple domains, making it one of the fastest growing technologies in the IT industry.
Seeing the rise of blockchain, many cloud service providers (CSP) came up with their own
blockchain solutions popularly known as Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS) [101–103]. Many
tech giants such as Microsoft, Google, Amazon, Oracle, and IBM have invested heavily
in blockchain technology, which showcases their conviction towards the integration of
Blockchain and Cloud. The CSP intend to provide enterprise grade solutions for blockchain
coupled with the infrastructure support of Cloud. In this section, we discuss the three
most prominent blockchain offerings by leading CSP and present a comparison among
their blockchain solutions. Figure 23 illustrates the various stages of the Blockchain–Cloud
adoption journey that any industry player can adopt or customize according to its own
business requirements.
9.1. AWS Managed Blockchain
Amazon Web Services (AWS) launched its BaaS in the year 2018 in the form of Amazon
Managed Blockchain. It is a fully managed service for creating and managing a blockchain
network. AWS allows for the fast and scalable deployment of blockchain networks over
EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) and EC3 instances. Amazon Managed Blockchain allows
a user to choose between the two most popular blockchain frameworks, Ethereum and
Hyperledger Fabric. The BaaS allows a developer to build distributed applications where
multiple entities can securely perform transactions without the need for a central authority.
The BaaS is offered as a pay-as-you-go service by Amazon, wherein the user only pays for
the services being used and the amount of time they are being used for. AWS allows its users
to customize their infrastructure in terms of variable CPU and memory configurations.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 25 of 31Sensors 2022, 22, x FOR PEER REVIEW 25 of 31 
 
 
 
Figure 23. Blockchain–Cloud Adoption Journey. 
9.1. AWS Managed Blockchain 
Amazon Web Services (AWS) launched its BaaS in the year 2018 in the form of Am-
azon Managed Blockchain. It is a fully managed service for creating and managing a 
blockchain network. AWS allows for the fast and scalable deployment of blockchain net-
works over EC2 (Elastic Compute Cloud) and EC3 instances. Amazon Managed Block-
chain allows a user to choose between the two most popular blockchain frameworks, 
Ethereum and Hyperledger Fabric. The BaaS allows a developer to build distributed ap-
plications where multiple entities can securely perform transactions without the need for 
a central authority. The BaaS is offered as a pay-as-you-go service by Amazon, wherein 
the user only pays for the services being used and the amount of time they are being used 
for. AWS allows its users to customize their infrastructure in terms of variable CPU and 
memory configurations. 
9.2. Azure Blockchain Service 
Microsoft Azure blockchain was the pioneer cloud service provider to render BaaS 
for companies and developers. Azure promises its customers low-cost, fast, and safe 
blockchain implementations. Talking in terms of a market cap, Azure has the largest when 
it comes to Blockchain-as-a-Service. The Azure blockchain provides pre-configured infra-
structure and network resources to its customers, thereby ensuring reduced deployment 
time. It also provides a plethora of internal tools for the fast and secure development of 
decentralized applications. The central cloud repository allows users to store their data in 
Figure 23. Blockchain–Cloud Adoption Journey.
9.2. Azure Blockchain Service
Microsoft Azure blockchain was the pioneer cloud service provider to render BaaS for
companies and developers. Azure promises its customers low-cost, fast, and safe blockchain
implementations. Talking in terms of a market cap, Azure has the largest when it comes
to Blockchain-as-a-Service. The Azure blockchain provides pre-configured infrastructure
and network resources to its customers, thereby ensuring reduced deployment time. It also
provides a plethora of internal tools for the fast and secure development of decentralized
applications. The central cloud repository allows users to store their data in a secure
manner. Azure Blockchain Service offers two kinds of services: Basic and Standard. The
service tiers are divided based upon the performance and capabilities the services can offer.
The basic services are meant for lightweight development and test workloads whereas the
standard services can support the deployment of large production workloads.
9.3. Oracle Cloud Blockchain
Oracle came up with its blockchain solution soon after the launch of the Azure
Blockchain Service. It named its blockchain service Oracle Blockchain Platform, which was
an enterprise-grade solution focusing on the needs of enterprises and businesses. The ser-
vice is a platform comprising of a distributed ledger that allows users to build and deploy
blockchain applications over the cloud. The blockchain offering uses Hyperledger Fabric
as the base framework for deploying blockchain networks. The Oracle Blockchain Platform
allows its users to access numerous services of Oracle Cloud through in-house REST API
gateways. Identity management, Oracle DB, and on-chain access control are some of the
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 26 of 31
prominent built-in features of the blockchain platform. Table 4 illustrates a comparative
analysis among key industry players rendering Blockchain-Cloud integration services.
Table 4. Comparative analysis of blockchain services by Cloud Providers.
Factor AWS Blockchain Azure Blockchain Service Oracle Blockchain Platform
Blockchain Hosting Platform Ethereum, Hyperledger
Fabric, Corda
Ethereum, Hyperledger
Fabric, Corda, MultiChain Hyperledger Fabric
Blockchain Type Permissioned Permissioned Permissioned, Private,
Consortium
Key Services/Products
Amazon Quantum Ledger
Database (QLDB), Amazon
Managed Blockchain
Azure Blockchain Workbench,
Ethereum on Azure
Blockchain App Builder,
Blockchain Tables,
Oracle PaaS
Architectural Design Component based architecture Layered Architecture Layered Architecture
Pricing Pay-as-you-go Subscription plan,
Pay-as-you-go
Pay-as-you-go, Subscription
based, Licenced
Major Clients Accenture, Nestle, GE
Aviation, PHILIPS, SonyMusic
J.P. Morgan, Singapore
Airlines, XBOX, Starbucks iPoint, M2O, SERES, AJIB
10. Discussion and Conclusions
Blockchain is one of the fastest emerging technologies which has started to see its
applicability beyond the financial sector. Its characteristics, such as immutability, data trace-
ability, and security and its decentralized nature, have been the major driving factors for
ensuring its success. Despite the merits of blockchain technology, there are a few challenges
of scalability, energy consumption, and infrastructure requirements. It is believed that the
integration of the Cloud with Blockchain can mitigate these challenges and enhance the
development and deployment of decentralized applications. This work of ours aims to
identify the extent of research that has been conducted concerning Blockchain–Cloud inte-
gration in the last few years. The paper presents case studies discussing Blockchain–Cloud
integration that help to enhance the understanding of its readers. A detailed survey is con-
ducted to examine the publishing patterns in the areas of Blockchain technology coupled
with Cloud computing, Healthcare, Smart cities, and Finance. Furthermore, we discuss
the concept of Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS) and explore key cloud service providers
(CSP) which are offering blockchain services. The work presents a literature survey of
publications concerning the implementation of BaaS along with a comparison between
various blockchain services being offered by the CSP. The study performed presents us
with a few questions to further investigate. What are the challenges of Blockchain–Cloud
integration? What are the future application areas for BaaS? What kind of pricing and
SLA policies can be created for ensuring efficiency and QoS? What type of architecture can
be created for rendering BaaS? Through this work, readers can obtain an insight into the
existing literature and will be able to craft their research journeys to answer some of the
above questions.
Author Insights:
• Blockchain and Cloud computing are complementary technologies that work on
the principles of distributed computing. Key challenge areas of Cloud, i.e., security,
privacy, and the heterogenous storage of big data, can be easily mitigated by its
integration with Blockchain technology.
• Resource allocation policies and internal Cloud operations can become more efficient,
secure, and robust by Cloud’s integration with Blockchain.
• Blockchain-as-a-Service (BaaS) is expected to see a surge as more and more industry
players are moving towards offering BaaS-related services.
• Existing Cloud services may experience an improvement in QoS when rendered along
with blockchain integration.
• New integration areas for application and creation that prove beneficial for both Cloud
and Blockchain users need to be identified by researchers.
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 27 of 31
• Supply chain management and smart agriculture continue to be the top runners for
application areas of Blockchain–Cloud integration, as they represent the maximum
spike in terms of publication growth trajectories.
• Cloud data privacy and Cloud storage are two specific research areas which show
maximum spikes in terms of publication growth trajectories and thus can be beneficial
choices as research problem areas.
• New models and frameworks are being proposed for the creation of smart cities involving
the use of disruptive technologies such as Blockchain, IoT, AI, and Cloud computing.
• New Cloud governance models can be proposed by making use of blockchain con-
sensus algorithms, thereby allowing multiple levels of customized data preferences,
access control, and resource validation.
• IoT is the most prominent allied technology which has seen significant traction from
researchers across the world when it comes to creating solutions in collaboration with
Blockchain–Cloud integration.
• Researchers can work on problems involving the amalgamation of AI and Blockchain–
Cloud integration, as it is the newest entrant to the club of allied technologies and has
a significant research potential.
• Researchers can focus on devising efficient smart contracts that can facilitate the
integration of both technologies by means of the efficient allocation of Cloud resources.
• Blockchain implementation on Hybrid Cloud models is an area for identifying new
research possibilities.
• Scalability continues to be an open research challenge for Blockchain–Cloud systems
in situations of varied heavy workloads.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, A.K. and A.B.; methodology, A.K. and A.B.; software,
A.S. and V.B.; validation, V.B. and M.J.; formal analysis, V.B. and M.J.; investigation, A.K. and A.S.;
resources, V.B., V.P. and M.J.; data curation, A.K. and A.S.; writing—original draft preparation, A.K.,
A.S. and A.B.; writing—review and editing, V.B. and V.P.; visualization, A.S. and V.B.; supervision,
A.B., V.B. and M.J.; project administration, V.B.; funding acquisition, V.B., V.P. and M.J. All authors
have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by Don State Technical University (RF state assignment No.
075-03-2021-019/5).
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Benil, T.; Jasper, J. Cloud based security on outsourcing using blockchain in E-health systems. Comput. Netw. 2020, 178, 107344.
[CrossRef]
2. Huang, H.; Zhu, P.; Xiao, F.; Sun, X.; Huang, Q. A blockchain-based scheme for privacy-preserving and secure sharing of medical
data. Comput. Secur. 2020, 99, 102010. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3. Negi, D.; Sah, A.; Rawat, S.; Choudhury, T.; Khanna, A. Block Chain Platforms and Smart Contracts. In Blockchain Applications in
IoT Ecosystem; Choudhury, T., Khanna, A., Toe, T.T., Khurana, M., Gia Nhu, N., Eds.; EAI/Springer Innovations in Communication
and Computing; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2021. [CrossRef]
4. Bommadevara, N.; Del Miglio, A.; Jansen, S. Cloud Adoption to Accelerate IT Modernization; McKinsey Digital: Atlanta, GA,
USA, 2018.
5. Miyachi, K.; Mackey, T.K. hOCBS: A privacy-preserving blockchain framework for healthcare data leveraging an on-chain and
off-chain system design. Inf. Process. Manag. 2021, 58, 102535. [CrossRef]
6. Teufel, B.; Sentic, A.; Barmet, M. Blockchain energy: Blockchain in future energy systems. J. Electron. Sci. Technol. 2019, 17, 100011.
[CrossRef]
7. Unal, D.; Hammoudeh, M.; Kiraz, M.S. Policy specification and verification for blockchain and smart contracts in 5G networks.
ICT Express 2020, 6, 43–47. [CrossRef]
8. Wang, K.; Kim, H.S. FastChain: Scaling Blockchain System with Informed Neighbor Selection. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE
International Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain), Atlanta, GA, USA, 14–17 July 2019; pp. 376–383. [CrossRef]
9. Pavithra, S.; Ramya, S.; Prathibha, S. A survey on cloud security issues and blockchain. In Proceedings of the 2019 3rd International
Conference on Computing and Communications Technologies (ICCCT), Chennai, India, 21–22 February 2019; IEEE: Piscataway,
NJ, USA, 2019; pp. 136–140.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2020.107344
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2020.102010
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32895584
http://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-65691-1_5
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102535
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnlest.2020.100011
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.icte.2019.07.002
http://doi.org/10.1109/Blockchain.2019.00058
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 28 of 31
10. Park, J.H.; Park, J.H. Blockchain security in cloud computing: Use cases, challenges, and solutions. Symmetry 2017, 9, 164.
[CrossRef]
11. Gai, K.; Choo, K.-K.R.; Zhu, L. Blockchain-Enabled Reengineering of Cloud Datacenters. IEEE Cloud Comput. 2018, 5, 21–25.
[CrossRef]
12. Yadav, D.; Shinde, A.; Nair, A.; Patil, Y.; Kanchan, S. Enhancing data security in cloud using blockchain. In Proceedings of the
2020 4th International Conference on Intelligent Computing and Control Systems (ICICCS), Madurai, India, 13–15 May 2020;
IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2020; pp. 753–757.
13. Esposito, C.; De Santis, A.; Tortora, G.; Chang, H.; Choo, K.-K.R. Blockchain: A Panacea for Healthcare Cloud-Based Data Security
and Privacy? IEEE Cloud Comput. 2018, 5, 31–37. [CrossRef]
14. Liang, X.; Shetty, S.; Tosh, D.; Kamhoua, C.; Kwiat, K.; Njilla, L. Provchain: A blockchain-based data prove-nance architecture in
cloud environment with enhanced privacy and availability. In Proceedings of the 2017 17th IEEE/ACM International Symposium
on Cluster, Cloud and Grid Computing (CCGRID), Madrid, Spain, 14–17 May 2017; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2017; pp. 468–477.
15. Yang, C.; Tan, L.; Shi, N.; Xu, B.; Cao, Y.; Yu, K. AuthPrivacyChain: A Blockchain-Based Access Control Framework with Privacy
Protection in Cloud. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 70604–70615. [CrossRef]
16. Wang, Y.; Zhang, A.; Zhang, P.; Wang, H. Cloud-Assisted EHR Sharing with Security and Privacy Preservation via Consortium
Blockchain. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 136704–136719. [CrossRef]
17. Xu, J.; Xue, K.; Li, S.; Tian, H.; Hong, J.; Hong, P.; Yu, N. Healthchain: A Blockchain-Based Privacy Preserving Scheme for
Large-Scale Health Data. IEEE Internet Things J. 2019, 6, 8770–8781. [CrossRef]
18. Dwivedi, A.D.; Srivastava, G.; Dhar, S.; Singh, R. A Decentralized Privacy-Preserving Healthcare Blockchain for IoT. Sensors 2019,
19, 326. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
19. Sharma, P.; Jindal, R.; Borah, M.D. Blockchain technology for cloud storage: A systematic literature review. ACM Comput. Surv.
(CSUR) 2020, 53, 1–32. [CrossRef]
20. Li, J.; Wu, J.; Chen, L. Block-secure: Blockchain based scheme for secure P2P cloud storage. Inf. Sci. 2018, 465, 219–231. [CrossRef]
21. Yang, C.; Chen, X.; Xiang, Y. Blockchain-based publicly verifiable data deletion scheme for cloud storage. J. Netw. Comput. Appl.
2018, 103, 185–193. [CrossRef]
22. Zhang, Y.; Xu, C.; Lin, X.; Shen, X.S. Blockchain-based public integrity verification for cloud storage against pro-crastinating
auditors. IEEE Trans. Cloud Comput. 2019, 9, 923–937. [CrossRef]
23. Zhu, Z.; Qi, G.; Zheng, M.; Sun, J.; Chai, Y. Blockchain based consensus checking in decentralized cloud storage. Simul. Model.
Pract. Theory 2019, 102, 101987. [CrossRef]
24. Tang, J.; Huang, C.; Liu, H.; Al-Nabhan, N. Cloud Storage Strategy of Blockchain Based on Genetic Prediction Dynamic Files.
Electronics 2020, 9, 398. [CrossRef]
25. Farouk, A.; Alahmadi, A.; Ghose, S.; Mashatan, A. Blockchain platform for industrial healthcare: Vision and future opportunities.
Comput. Commun. 2020, 154, 223–235. [CrossRef]
26. Ferrer-Gomila, J.-L.; Hinarejos, M.F.; Isern-Deyà, A.-P. A fair contract signing protocol with blockchain support. Electron. Commer.
Res. Appl. 2019, 36, 100869. [CrossRef]
27. Gul, M.J.; Subramanian, B.; Paul, A.; Kim, J. Blockchain for public health care in smart society. Microprocess. Microsystems 2021,
80, 103524. [CrossRef]
28. Liu, X.; Muhammad, K.; Lloret, J.; Chen, Y.-W.; Yuan, S.-M. Elastic and cost-effective data carrier architecture for smart contract in
blockchain. Futur. Gener. Comput. Syst. 2019, 100, 590–599. [CrossRef]
29. Wei, P.; Wang, D.; Zhao, Y.; Tyagi, S.K.S.; Kumar, N. Blockchain data-based cloud data integrity protection mechanism. Futur.
Gener. Comput. Syst. 2019, 102, 902–911. [CrossRef]
30. Xu, J.; Zhuang, Z.; Wang, K.; Liang, W. High-Accuracy Reliability Prediction Approach for Blockchain Services Under BaaS. In
Blockchain and Trustworthy Systems; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 648–660. [CrossRef]
31. Jo, Y.; Park, C. Codit: Collaborative auditing for baas. In Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Scalable and Resilient Infrastructures
for Distributed Ledgers, Davis, CA, USA, 9–13 December 2019; pp. 11–12.
32. Onik, M.M.H.; Miraz, M.H. Performance analytical comparison of blockchain-as-a-service (baas) platforms. In Proceedings
of the International Conference for Emerging Technologies in Computing, London, UK, 19–20 August 2019; Springer: Cham,
Switzerland, 2019; pp. 3–18.
33. Zhu, L.; Wu, Y.; Gai, K.; Choo, K.-K.R. Controllable and trustworthy blockchain-based cloud data management. Futur. Gener.
Comput. Syst. 2019, 91, 527–535. [CrossRef]
34. Mamdouh, M.; Awad, A.I.; Khalaf, A.A.; Hamed, H.F. Authentication and Identity Management of IoHT Devices: Achievements,
Challenges, and Future Directions. Comput. Secur. 2021, 111, 102491. [CrossRef]
35. Shukla, S.; Thakur, S.; Hussain, S.; Breslin, J.G.; Jameel, S.M. Identification and Authentication in Healthcare In-ternet-of-Things
Using Integrated Fog Computing Based Blockchain Model. Internet Things 2021, 15, 100422. [CrossRef]
36. Purohit, S.; Calyam, P.; Alarcon, M.L.; Bhamidipati, N.R.; Mosa, A.; Salah, K. HonestChain: Consortium block-chain for protected
data sharing in health information systems. Peer-Peer Netw. Appl. 2021, 14, 3012–3028. [CrossRef]
37. Egala, B.S.; Pradhan, A.K.; Badarla, V.R.; Mohanty, S.P. Fortified-chain: A blockchain based framework for secu-rity and privacy
assured internet of medical things with effective access control. IEEE Internet Things J. 2021, 8, 11717–11731. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/sym9080164
http://doi.org/10.1109/MCC.2018.064181116
http://doi.org/10.1109/MCC.2018.011791712
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2985762
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2943153
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2019.2923525
http://doi.org/10.3390/s19020326
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30650612
http://doi.org/10.1145/3403954
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2018.06.071
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2017.11.011
http://doi.org/10.1109/TCC.2019.2908400
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.simpat.2019.101987
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics9030398
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2020.02.058
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2019.100869
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpro.2020.103524
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.05.042
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.09.028
http://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-9213-3_50
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.09.019
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102491
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.iot.2021.100422
http://doi.org/10.1007/s12083-021-01153-y
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3058946
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 29 of 31
38. Lakhan, A.; Mohammed, M.; Rashid, A.; Kadry, S.; Panityakul, T.; Abdulkareem, K.; Thinnukool, O. Smart-Contract Aware
Ethereum and Client-Fog-Cloud Healthcare System. Sensors 2021, 21, 4093. [CrossRef]
39. Ismail, L.; Materwala, H.; Hennebelle, A. A Scoping Review of Integrated Blockchain-Cloud (BcC) Architecture for Healthcare:
Applications, Challenges and Solutions. Sensors 2021, 21, 3753. [CrossRef]
40. Mayer, A.H.; Rodrigues, V.F.; da Costa, C.A.; da Rosa Righi, R.; Roehrs, A.; Antunes, R.S. Fogchain: A fog com-puting architecture
integrating blockchain and Internet of things for personal health records. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 122723–122737. [CrossRef]
41. Jiang, C.; Duan, H. Research and implementation of Intelligent Service Platform for Flexible Employ-ment in Internet Sharing
Economy. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE International Conference on Computer Science, Electronic Information Engineering
and Intelligent Control Technology (CEI), Fuzhou, China, 24–26 September 2021; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2021; pp. 237–241.
42. Mehta, D.; Tanwar, S.; Bodkhe, U.; Shukla, A.; Kumar, N. Blockchain-based royalty contract transactions scheme for Industry 4.0
supply-chain management. Inf. Process. Manag. 2021, 58, 102586. [CrossRef]
43. Niya, S.R.; Dordevic, D.; Stiller, B. ITrade: A Blockchain-based, Self-Sovereign, and Scalable Marketplace for IoT Data Streams. In
Proceedings of the 2021 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management (IM), Bordeaux, France, 17–21
May 2021.
44. Bhagavan, S.; Rao, P.; Ngo, T. C3HSB: A Transparent Supply Chain for Multi-cloud and Hybrid Cloud Assets Powered by
Blockchain. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE 37th International Conference on Data Engineering Workshops (ICDEW), Chania,
Greece, 19–22 April 2021; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2021; pp. 100–103.
45. Chinnaraj, G.; Antonidoss, A. A new methodology for secured inventory management by average fitness-based colliding bodies
optimization integrated with block chain under cloud. Concurr. Comput. Pract. Exp. 2021, 34, e6540. [CrossRef]
46. Subramanian, G.; Thampy, A.S. Implementation of Hybrid Blockchain in a Pre-Owned Electric Vehicle Supply Chain. IEEE Access
2021, 9, 82435–82454. [CrossRef]
47. Lin, Y.-P.; Petway, J.R.; Anthony, J.; Mukhtar, H.; Liao, S.-W.; Chou, C.-F.; Ho, Y.-F. Blockchain: The Evolutionary Next Step for ICT
E-Agriculture. Environments 2017, 4, 50. [CrossRef]
48. Xiaoping, D.; Tao, L.; Xiaoyuan, D. Research on the intelligent settlement cloud platform of electric power materials based on
the electronization of blockchain VAT special invoice. In Proceedings of the 2021 China International Conference on Electricity
Distribution (CICED), Shanghai, China, 7–9 April 2021; pp. 948–952. [CrossRef]
49. Zhang, H.; Zang, Z.; Muthu, B. Knowledge-based systems for blockchain-based cognitive cloud computing model for security
purposes. Int. J. Model. Simul. Sci. Comput. 2021, 2241002. [CrossRef]
50. Hassani, H.; Huang, X.; Silva, E.S. Fusing Big Data, blockchain, and cryptocurrency. In Fusing Big Data, Block-Chain and
Cryptocurrency; Palgrave Pivot: Cham, Switzerland, 2019; pp. 99–117.
51. Mukhtar, A.; Romli, A.; Noor, N.M.; Abdullateef, M.; Al-Bashiri, H. Inventory Visibility Scenario to Re-duce Safety Stock in Supply
Chain Network Using Blockchain Hyperledger Composer. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Software
Engineering & Computer Systems and 4th International Conference on Computational Science and Information Management
(ICSECS-ICOCSIM), Online, 24–26 August 2021; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2021; pp. 535–540.
52. Samuel, O.; Javaid, N.; Alghamdi, T.A.; Kumar, N. Towards sustainable smart cities: A secure and scalable trading system for
residential homes using blockchain and artificial intelligence. Sustain. Cities Soc. 2022, 76, 103371. [CrossRef]
53. Venkadeshan, R.; Jegatha, M. Blockchain-Based Fog Computing Model (BFCM) for IoT Smart Cities. In Convergence of Internet of
Things and Blockchain Technologies; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2022; pp. 77–92.
54. Kumar, P.; Kumar, R.; Srivastava, G.; Gupta, G.P.; Tripathi, R.; Gadekallu, T.R.; Xiong, N. PPSF: A Priva-cy-Preserving and Secure
Framework using Blockchain-based Machine-Learning for IoT-driven Smart Cities. IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng. 2021, 8, 2326–2341.
[CrossRef]
55. Aloqaily, M.; Bouachir, O.; Boukerche, A.; Al Ridhawi, I. Design guidelines for blockchain-assisted 5G-UAV net-works. IEEE
Netw. 2021, 35, 64–71. [CrossRef]
56. Aguilera, R.C.; Ortiz, M.P.; Banda, A.A. Internet of things expert system for smart cities using the blockchain technology. Fractals
2021, 29, 2150036. [CrossRef]
57. Sharma, P.K.; Park, J.H. Blockchain based hybrid network architecture for the smart city. Futur. Gener. Comput. Syst. 2018, 86,
650–655. [CrossRef]
58. Treiblmaier, H.; Rejeb, A.; Strebinger, A. Blockchain as a Driver for Smart City Development: Application Fields and a Compre-
hensive Research Agenda. Smart Cities 2020, 3, 853–872. [CrossRef]
59. Sharma, P.; Borah, M.D.; Namasudra, S. Improving security of medical big data by using Blockchain technology. Comput. Electr.
Eng. 2021, 96, 107529. [CrossRef]
60. Demestichas, K.; Peppes, N.; Alexakis, T.; Adamopoulou, E. Blockchain in Agriculture Traceability Systems: A Review. Appl. Sci.
2020, 10, 4113. [CrossRef]
61. Zhu, L.; Li, F. Agricultural data sharing and sustainable development of ecosystem based on block chain. J. Clean. Prod. 2021,
315, 127869. [CrossRef]
62. Hossain, S.; Rahman, H.; Rahman, S.; Hosen, A.S.M.S.; Seo, C.; Cho, G.H. Intellectual Property Theft Protection in IoT Based
Precision Agriculture Using SDN. Electronics 2021, 10, 1987. [CrossRef]
63. Vangala, A.; Sutrala, A.K.; Das, A.K.; Jo, M. Smart Contract-Based Blockchain-Envisioned Authentication Scheme for Smart
Farming. IEEE Internet Things J. 2021, 8, 10792–10806. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/s21124093
http://doi.org/10.3390/s21113753
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3109822
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102586
http://doi.org/10.1002/cpe.6540
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3084942
http://doi.org/10.3390/environments4030050
http://doi.org/10.1109/ciced50259.2021.9556752
http://doi.org/10.1142/S1793962322410021
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.scs.2021.103371
http://doi.org/10.1109/TNSE.2021.3089435
http://doi.org/10.1109/MNET.011.2000170
http://doi.org/10.1142/S0218348X21500365
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2018.04.060
http://doi.org/10.3390/smartcities3030044
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2021.107529
http://doi.org/10.3390/app10124113
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.127869
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10161987
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3050676
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 30 of 31
64. Ren, W.; Wan, X.; Gan, P. A double-blockchain solution for agricultural sampled data security in Internet of Things network.
Futur. Gener. Comput. Syst. 2021, 117, 453–461. [CrossRef]
65. Khanna, A.; Sah, A.; Bolshev, V.; Jasinski, M.; Vinogradov, A.; Leonowicz, Z.; Jasiński, M. Blockchain: Future of e-Governance in
Smart Cities. Sustainability 2021, 13, 11840. [CrossRef]
66. Li, Z.; Kang, J.; Yu, R.; Ye, D.; Deng, Q.; Zhang, Y. Consortium Blockchain for Secure Energy Trading in Industrial Internet of
Things. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2017, 14, 3690–3700. [CrossRef]
67. Liu, M.; Yu, F.R.; Teng, Y.; Leung, V.C.; Song, M. Performance optimization for blockchain-enabled industrial In-ternet of Things
(IIoT) systems: A deep reinforcement learning approach. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2019, 15, 3559–3570. [CrossRef]
68. Li, W.; Guo, H.; Nejad, M.; Shen, C.-C. Privacy-Preserving Traffic Management: A Blockchain and Zero-Knowledge Proof Inspired
Approach. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 181733–181743. [CrossRef]
69. Khanna, A.; Sah, A.; Choudhury, T.; Maheshwari, P. Blockchain Technology for Hospitality Industry. In Proceedings of the
European, Mediterranean, and Middle Eastern Conference on Information Systems, Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 25–26
November 2020; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020; pp. 99–112.
70. Choudhury, T.; Khanna, A.; Toe, T.T.; Khurana, M.; Nhu, N.G. Blockchain Applications in IoT Ecosystem; Springer: Cham,
Switzerland, 2021.
71. Sharma, A.; Awasthi, Y.; Kumar, S. The Role of Blockchain, AI and IoT for Smart Road Traffic Manage-ment System. In Proceedings
of the 2020 IEEE India Council International Subsections Conference (INDISCON), Visakhapatnam, India, 3–4 October 2020;
IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2020; pp. 289–296.
72. Moniruzzaman; Khezr, S.; Yassine, A.; Benlamri, R. Blockchain for smart homes: Review of current trends and research challenges.
Comput. Electr. Eng. 2020, 83, 106585. [CrossRef]
73. Ren, Y.; Leng, Y.; Qi, J.; Sharma, P.K.; Wang, J.; Almakhadmeh, Z.; Tolba, A. Multiple cloud storage mechanism based on
blockchain in smart homes. Futur. Gener. Comput. Syst. 2021, 115, 304–313. [CrossRef]
74. Oliveira, T.A.; Oliver, M.; Ramalhinho, H. Challenges for Connecting Citizens and Smart Cities: ICT, E-Governance and
Blockchain. Sustainability 2020, 12, 2926. [CrossRef]
75. Nguyen, D.C.; Ding, M.; Pathirana, P.N.; Seneviratne, A. Blockchain and AI-based solutions to combat corona-virus (COVID-19)-
like epidemics: A survey. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 95730–95753. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
76. Kumari, A.; Gupta, R.; Tanwar, S.; Kumar, N. Blockchain and AI amalgamation for energy cloud management: Challenges,
solutions, and future directions. J. Parallel Distrib. Comput. 2020, 143, 148–166. [CrossRef]
77. Kumar, R.; Wang, W.; Kumar, J.; Yang, T.; Khan, A.; Ali, W.; Ali, I. An Integration of blockchain and AI for secure data sharing and
detection of CT images for the hospitals. Comput. Med Imaging Graph. 2021, 87, 101812. [CrossRef]
78. Mashamba-Thompson, T.P.; Crayton, E.D. Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence Technology for Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019
Self-Testing. Diagnostics 2020, 10, 198. [CrossRef]
79. Deebak, B.D.; Fadi, A.T. A robust and distributed architecture for 5G-enabled networks in the smart blockchain era. Comput.
Commun. 2021, 181, 293–308. [CrossRef]
80. Sharma, A.; Podoplelova, E.; Shapovalov, G.; Tselykh, A.; Tselykh, A. Sustainable Smart Cities: Convergence of Artificial
Intelligence and Blockchain. Sustainability 2021, 13, 13076. [CrossRef]
81. Atlam, H.F.; Azad, M.A.; Alzahrani, A.G.; Wills, G. A Review of Blockchain in Internet of Things and AI. Big Data Cogn. Comput.
2020, 4, 28. [CrossRef]
82. Abid, A.; Cheikhrouhou, S.; Kallel, S.; Jmaiel, M. NovidChain: Blockchain-based privacy-preserving platform for COVID-19
test/vaccine certificates. Softw. Pract. Exp. 2021, 52, 841–867. [CrossRef]
83. Xu, H.; Zhang, L.; Onireti, O.; Fang, Y.; Buchanan, W.J.; Imran, M.A. Beeptrace: Blockchain-enabled priva-cy-preserving contact
tracing for COVID-19 pandemic and beyond. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 3915–3929. [CrossRef]
84. AlShamsi, M.; Salloum, S.A.; Alshurideh, M.; Abdallah, S. Artificial Intelligence and Blockchain for Transparency in Governance.
In Artificial Intelligence for Sustainable Development: Theory, Practice and Future Applications; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020;
pp. 219–230. [CrossRef]
85. Singh, S.K.; Rathore, S.; Park, J.H. BlockIoTIntelligence: A Blockchain-enabled Intelligent IoT Architecture with Artificial
Intelligence. Futur. Gener. Comput. Syst. 2020, 110, 721–743. [CrossRef]
86. Shafagh, H.; Burkhalter, L.; Hithnawi, A.; Duquennoy, S. Towards blockchain-based auditable storage and sharing of IoT data. In
Proceedings of the 2017 on Cloud Computing Security Workshop, Dallas, TX, USA, 3 November 2017; pp. 45–50.
87. Alkadi, O.; Moustafa, N.; Turnbull, B.; Choo, K.-K.R. A deep blockchain framework-enabled collaborative intrusion de-tection for
protecting IoT and cloud networks. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 9463–9472. [CrossRef]
88. Sharma, P.K.; Chen, M.-Y.; Park, J.H. A Software Defined Fog Node Based Distributed Blockchain Cloud Architecture for IoT.
IEEE Access 2017, 6, 115–124. [CrossRef]
89. Liu, S.; Yu, J.; Xiao, Y.; Wan, Z.; Wang, S.; Yan, B. BC-SABE: Blockchain-aided searchable attribute-based encryption for cloud-IoT.
IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 7, 7851–7867. [CrossRef]
90. Zhang, L.; Zou, Y.; Wang, W.; Jin, Z.; Su, Y.; Chen, H. Resource allocation and trust computing for blockchain-enabled edge
computing system. Comput. Secur. 2021, 105, 102249. [CrossRef]
91. Fan, Y.; Wang, L.; Wu, W.; Du, D. Cloud/edge computing resource allocation and pricing for mobile blockchain: An itera-tive
greedy and search approach. IEEE Trans. Comput. Soc. Syst. 2021, 8, 451–463. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2020.12.007
http://doi.org/10.3390/su132111840
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2017.2786307
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2019.2897805
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3028189
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2020.106585
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2020.09.019
http://doi.org/10.3390/su12072926
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3093633
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34812398
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2020.05.004
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compmedimag.2020.101812
http://doi.org/10.3390/diagnostics10040198
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2021.10.015
http://doi.org/10.3390/su132313076
http://doi.org/10.3390/bdcc4040028
http://doi.org/10.1002/spe.2983
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.3025953
http://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-51920-9_11
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.09.002
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.2996590
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2017.2757955
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.2993231
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102249
http://doi.org/10.1109/TCSS.2021.3049152
Sensors 2022, 22, 5238 31 of 31
92. Bai, F.; Shen, T.; Yu, Z.; Zeng, K.; Gong, B. Trustworthy blockchain-empowered collaborative edge compu-ting-as-a-service
scheduling and data sharing in the IIoE. IEEE Internet Things J. 2021. [CrossRef]
93. Qu, G.; Cui, N.; Wu, H.; Li, R.; Ding, Y. ChainFL: A Simulation Platform for Joint Federated Learning and Blockchain in
Edge/Cloud Computing Environments. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2021, 18, 3572–3581. [CrossRef]
94. Alrubei, S.; Ball, E.; Rigelsford, J. The Use of Blockchain to Support Distributed AI Implementation in IoT Systems. IEEE Internet
Things J. 2021. [CrossRef]
95. Nawaz, A.; Gia, T.N.; Queralta, J.P.; Westerlund, T. Edge AI and blockchain for privacy-critical and da-ta-sensitive applications. In
Proceedings of the 2019 Twelfth International Conference on Mobile Computing and Ubiquitous Network (ICMU), Kathmandu,
Nepal, 4–6 November 2019; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2019; pp. 1–2.
96. Das, A.K.; Bera, B.; Giri, D. Ai and blockchain-based cloud-assisted secure vaccine distribution and tracking in iomt-enabled
COVID-19 environment. IEEE Internet Things Mag. 2021, 4, 26–32. [CrossRef]
97. Gharbi, C.; Hsairi, L.; Zagrouba, E. A Secure Integrated Fog Cloud-IoT Architecture based on Multi-Agents Sys-tem and
Blockchain. In Proceedings of the ICAART, Online, 4–6 February 2021; pp. 1184–1191.
98. Rathore, S.; Park, J.H. A Blockchain-Based Deep Learning Approach for Cyber Security in Next Generation Industrial Cyber-
Physical Systems. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2020, 17, 5522–5532. [CrossRef]
99. Medhane, D.V.; Sangaiah, A.K.; Hossain, M.S.; Muhammad, G.; Wang, J. Blockchain-Enabled Distributed Security Framework
for Next-Generation IoT: An Edge Cloud and Software-Defined Network-Integrated Approach. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 7,
6143–6149. [CrossRef]
100. Scopus. Available online: https://www.scopus.com (accessed on 1 February 2022).
101. Rimba, P.; Tran, A.B.; Weber, I.; Staples, M.; Ponomarev, A.; Xu, X. Comparing blockchain and cloud services for business process
execution. In Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE International Conference on Software Architecture (ICSA), Gothenburg, Sweden, 5–7
April 2017; IEEE: Piscataway, NJ, USA, 2017; pp. 257–260.
102. Gai, K.; Guo, J.; Zhu, L.; Yu, S. Blockchain Meets Cloud Computing: A Survey. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2020, 22, 2009–2030.
[CrossRef]
103. Nguyen, D.C.; Pathirana, P.N.; Ding, M.; Seneviratne, A. Integration of blockchain and cloud of things: Archi-tecture, applications
and challenges. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2020, 22, 2521–2549. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3058125
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2021.3117481
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3064176
http://doi.org/10.1109/IOTM.0001.2100016
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2020.3040968
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.2977196
https://www.scopus.com
http://doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2020.2989392
http://doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2020.3020092
	Introduction 
	Cloud Computing and Deployment Models 
	Private Cloud 
	Public Cloud 
	Hybrid Cloud 
	Community Cloud 
	Multi-Cloud 
	Benefits of Blockchain–Cloud Integration 
	Decentralization 
	Data Security 
	Adaptability 
	More Efficient Supply Chain Management 
	Tolerance of Faults and Errors 
	Impact Areas of Blockchain in Cloud Computing 
	Application Areas of Blockchain–Cloud Integration 
	Smart City 
	Smart Healthcare 
	Supply Chain 
	Agriculture 
	Blockchain–Cloud Adoption Challenges 
	Limited Interoperability 
	Regulatory Issues 
	Regulation Deficiency 
	Tensions Regarding Criminal Activities and Cybersecurity 
	Uncertain ROI 
	Integration of Blockchain–Cloud with Legacy Systems 
	Low Scalability 
	High-Energy Consumption 
	Allied Technologies 
	Literature Survey 
	Methodology 
	Blockchain–Cloud Application Areas 
	Cloud Impct Areas 
	Blockchain-as-a-Service 
	Blockchain–Cloud Allied Technologies 
	Research Growth Tajectorires 
	Industry Players and Services 
	AWS Managed Blockchain 
	Azure Blockchain Service 
	Oracle Cloud Blockchain 
	Discussion and Conclusions 
	References