065.pdf
978-1-7281-3992-0/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 
Sustainable Member Motivation System Proposal 
for NGOs: NGO-TR 
 
Umutcan Korkmaz 
Department of Computer Engineering 
Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 
Muğla, Turkey 
kmmzurtkcn@gmail.com 
 
Havva İlayda Altunlu 
Department of Computer Engineering 
Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 
Muğla, Turkey 
ilaydaltunlu@gmail.com 
Enis Karaarslan 
Department of Computer Engineering 
Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 
Muğla, Turkey 
enis.karaarslan@mu.edu.tr
Arzu Özkan 
Department of ELL 
Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University 
Muğla, Turkey 
arzuozknn8@gmail.com 
 
Abstract—Non-governmental organizations (NGO) depend 
on their members to survive. They need to reach the potential 
volunteers. They also aspire to keep track of their members’ 
effectiveness and to motivate those members to be more active. 
The volunteers need a transparent system, where their privacy 
is preserved. Our meetings with several NGOs show that there 
is a solid need for a transparent, effective and trustworthy 
system, where NGOs can track their members’ effectiveness, 
create enthusiasm and even collaborate with the volunteers 
from other NGOs. A system, where gamification principles are 
used for member motivation and the reputation of any member 
is calculated by his/her activities, is proposed. The blockchain 
technology will be used for the gamification process and the 
decentralized digital identity management. The decentralized 
digital identity management approach will help in providing the 
volunteers to gain full control over their identities and ensure 
the privacy. A design approach for the proposed system, the 
expected requirements and some possible use case scenarios 
have been presented. The prototype is implemented via 
Hyperledger Fabric and Hyperledger Indy software platforms, 
as a proof of concept. Chaincodes are to be implemented for the 
system to work autonomously. 
Keywords— Non-governmental organizations, social projects, 
gamification, blockchain, decentralized digital identity 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) aim to make 
the society socially active. Recent researches demonstrate that 
educated people in the USA and Europe trust NGOs more than 
companies and the media [1]. NGOS consist of members 
(volunteers) who came together for a purpose on voluntary. 
This voluntary potential is one of the most significant 
resources for the development of the NGO. Ensuring 
volunteers to become more active in the NGO is a challenge 
to be accomplished. Encouraging people to volunteer can be 
accomplished by building reliance between the participant and 
the NGO and strengthening their loyalty by giving 
responsibility to them [2].  
We propose a sustainable member motivation and 
management system which we call NGO-TR. This system 
will use gamification techniques and the blockchain 
technology. The system will support multiple NGO’s and 
multiple volunteers. 
The reliability of the members and their performances in 
the activities determine the reputation of the member and most 
NGOs need a profiling system that they can assess the 
reputations and track the progress of each volunteer. Processes 
are expected to perform transparently and reliably in such a 
system. Profiling can mean disturbing to some, this process 
can also be accomplished by taking privacy measures. 
Gamification techniques can be used to make this process fun. 
These methods can be used to increase the participation and 
encouragement of members, as the volunteers can be 
motivated to increase their reputation by being a more active 
volunteer [3]. Achieving these processes autonomously is 
important for trust and reliability. Autonomous systems can 
be accomplished by using blockchain technology. Smart 
codes can be used to establish trust between parties. 
There will be multiple NGO parties and multiple 
volunteers and the volunteer may not prefer to share his/her 
identity with all. In traditional methods, the identity data is 
stored in some centralized authority and the users assume that 
their data’s privacy and integrity is preserved. Decentralized 
digital identity management approach can be used to give the 
volunteers full control over their identities and ensure the 
personal data privacy and integrity [4]. 
In the next section, fundamentals is explained. Related 
works are given in section 3. The proposal of the system is 
explained in section 4. Finally, results and conclusion are 
given. 
II. FUNDAMENTALS 
A. Sustainable Volunteer Motivation and Management 
The reasons that lead volunteers to engage in voluntary 
activities in an NGO can be various. Volunteers can 
categorized diversely according to their experience, aims and 
expectations. The management should try to reach the desired 
efficiency and performance of the volunteers, which is a big 
challenge. The sustainability of volunteering should be aimed. 
An efficient volunteer management is necessary to provide all 
these [5]. 
If volunteer management is implemented with more 
systematic and proven criterias, modern and effective 
solutions to the difficulties experienced with volunteers can be 
improved. Many of the issues related to volunteer 
management will be eliminated if the following systematic 
steps are considered: 
• Determining the required volunteers 
• Defining the roles of volunteers 
• Supplying proper roles to the volunteers  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:16:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
• Informing their roles to the selected volunteers 
• Providing trainings to the volunteers 
• Evaluating and analysing the feedbacks from the 
volunteers 
• Tracking the volunteer potential and ensuring mutual 
satisfaction 
The systematically and transparently tracking of all these 
necessary steps can be facilitated in the NGOs with the use of 
the autonomous systems. The sustainability will increase, 
when volunteers track the progress they have made both 
personally and collectively. The adaptation of autonomous 
systems to NGOs will bring the ability to track the tasks 
achieved by all members within the organization 
transparently. The situation will create a confidence 
atmosphere between the NGO and the volunteer, as well as 
increasing the volunteer's devotion and performance [5]. 
One of the major issues in voluntary management is 
finding non-pecuniary motivation sources for sustainability. 
Non-governmental organizations can take some encouraging 
steps to increase voluntariness. Transparent scoring systems 
can be a good idea if it is well designed with gamification 
principles. This can be used to increase volunteers' attention 
and motivation. The transparent scoring systems can be used 
to evaluate volunteers by their activities and increase their 
competence within the community [5]. 
B. Blockchain 
Blockchain is a technology where the aim is to establish 
trust without intermediaries. Blocks are created by keeping 
each record linked to each other. This forms a decentralized 
and secure structure which is called the ledger. The records 
are ensured that they are tamper-proof. This data is kept in 
devices called the nodes. 
There are different blockchain structures that vary 
according to the anonymity of the nodes and the trust between 
the nodes. These are shown in Fig. 1 [7]. Any node in the 
open/permissionless blockchain can join and exit the network 
at any time, download protocols and view transactions. The 
validators are anonymous and there is lack of trust in 
Open/Permissionless blockchain structures. Bitcoin is an 
example of a Open/Permissionless blockchain. In the 
permissioned blockchain, only consortium members can join, 
exit, download protocols and view transactions. 
Validators are not anonymous and there is trust in 
closed/permissioned blockchain structures. This structure is 
suitable for the enterprise solutions. This solution is also 
energy efficient and scalable. Hyperledger is an example of 
this blockchain structure. Hyperledger is preferred in this 
project because of this features. 
Hyperledger Umbrella Project was launched by IBM in 
December 2016. It was later incorporated to the Linux 
Foundation. Hyperledger Indy (http://www.hyperledger.org) 
is a framework designed for the distributed digital identities. 
It can work with 2600 credentials in a minute [11]. Users can 
manage their identities on their own without any need of an 
organisation with Indy [12]. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Anonymity/Trust of Validators 
C. Gamification 
Gamification is one of the most popular approaches in our 
age which is focused on the interaction of people with devices 
[10]. It is a concept which uses the power of the games in order 
to create motivation for not so entertaining purposes [11]. It 
can be used for an enterprise to manage the engagement of 
members and enhancement of productivity [10]. As an 
example, an automobile retail chain received 95 percent 
voluntarily participation rate with gamification efforts [12]. 
Thus, it can be implemented in NGO’s to benefit from these 
features. According to self determination theory; people have 
three psychological needs which are the needs of competence, 
autonomy and relevance. If these needs are met, people are 
naturally motivated [13]. In the system we propose, it will let 
the person gain credits by his/her actions while providing the 
autonomous run of the system. The competence is to be 
satisfied by the reputation and the volunteers activities will be 
profiled to assess that. The motivation is to be met by the sense 
of belonging and the gamification techniques will be used to 
reach this goal. 
D. Decentralized Identity Management 
User information is usually kept in several databases in 
each service provider. This solution is inefficient, hard to 
secure and hard to maintain. Identity control mechanisms are 
needed where the user has the total control of his/her data. 
Decentralized approach to the digital identity issue can 
provide that control and privacy to the user over their identity 
data [4]. The main technique that is to be studied is the Zero 
Knowledge Proof (ZKP). ZKP is the method that is used to 
prove an argument without revealing any information about it 
[14]. Thus, an identity can be claimed and proved without 
actually sharing the credentials by using ZKP and 
decentralized digital identity management. These solutions 
ensure data integrity and will reduce the risks of the data 
breaches. Users will have the right to share the requested parts 
of their personal data. Decentralized applications will be able 
to reach the shared data when access granted through the 
blockchain based solutions [15-16]. 
III. RELATED WORKS 
We had proposed a NGO communication platform in an 
old publication [17]. NGO’s were at the center of that study 
and there were trust issues which we believe can be solved 
with the blockchain technology. Blockchain based digital 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:16:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
identity management solutions are summarized in [16]. 
Transforming organizations through gamification is covered 
in [10]. There are blockchain based products which use 
gamification principles in the market such as Whappy 
(https://www.whappy.it) and Open Social 
(https://www.getopensocial.com). Table 1 compares these 
solutions with our solution NGO-TR. Open Social group 
claims that social rewards have no real-world value and have 
a cryptocurrency token based rewarding model [18]. Whappy 
uses blockchain to make gamification and loyalty programs 
reliable [19]. NGO-TR is not a commercial solution and does 
not depend on cryptocurrency. It is energy efficient as it does 
not use PoW consensus protocol. 
TABLE I.  COMPARISON OF NGO-TR WITH OTHER SOLUTIONS  
 Digital 
Identity 
Gamification Reputation Blockchain 
Usage 
Whappy No Yes Yes Make 
gamification 
and loyalty 
programs 
reliable 
Open 
Social 
No Yes Yes Cryptocurrency 
Token based 
Rewarding 
model 
NGO-
TR 
Yes Yes Yes Digital Identity 
+ Reward 
IV. SYSTEM PROPOSAL 
The system which is proposed to be used for the volunteer 
management and motivation is shown in Fig. 2. NGOs and the 
users interact with the system through the smart codes (smart 
chains). The system proposal includes the following 
subsystems which will be described in the following 
subsections: 
• Digital Identity System: User details are kept in the 
digital identity system. Prototype is being 
implemented in the Hyperledger Indy blockchain 
framework. Privacy and integrity of the user data will 
be satisfied. 
• Profiling (User Activity) System: User activities will 
be kept in a database with an activity history. All the 
successfully finished and unfinished activities will be 
kept with remarks if needed. This database can also be 
implemented as a blockchain ledger even it is not a 
must. 
• Gamification (Awarding) System: User activities can 
be reviewed and rated by both the NGO and other 
volunteers that participated on a specific activity. 
Successful volunteering activities will be rewarded 
and total points of the volunteer will be kept in 
Hyperledger Fabric blockchain framework. 
This system uses blockchain structure to ensure that the 
assets are kept without any manipulation and work 
autonomously. However, it will make sense when more than 
one party is involved in the consensus process. Following 
conditions are expected for a proper system setup: 
• NGO have management in more than one region and 
more than one country. Each region of that NGO can 
be a node and this system will also ensure trust 
between regions and countries.  
• More than one NGO can use this system and ensure 
trust between each other. 
• Volunteers can be involved in more than one NGO 
and reputation is to be calculated by taking this into 
account. 
• Sponsor firms and other organizations may be 
involved in the future phases of the project. 
• NGO can request an active (enrolled) volunteer’s 
personal information from directly the volunteer. 
The datasets which are to be used can be classified as: 
• User Public Dataset: Publicly available information. 
• User Personal Data (Digital ID): The information to be 
shared on the consent of the volunteer. 
A. Datasets & Profiles 
User public datasets consists of public personal data and 
user activity records. The publicly available datasets will be 
processed to form the following two profiles: 
• Public profile: This profile is formed of the selected 
information of the volunteer which the user wants to 
keep public. It is formed of username, avatar and other 
public information.  
• Activity profile: This profile is formed from the user 
activity records which the user took part in it. 
• These records can be kept in a relational database like 
MySQL or even Hyperledger Fabric can be used. 
Database can also be preferred in the system as the 
public records will not contain private personal data 
and there is no trust related issue. This selection is also 
based on performance issues as this data will 
consistently be analysed by the Machine Learning 
Techniques. 
User personal data (Digital ID) will be kept private in a 
global blockchain network. This data will consist of 
volunteer’s private information such as name, address, phone 
number etc. Hyperledger Indy will be used to form a prototype 
system. The personal data of the volunteers will be stored in 
the decentralized blockchain network. 
 
Fig. 2.  NGO-TR volunteer management and motivation techniques 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:16:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Workflow for an activity process is shown in Fig. 3. The 
NGOs or autonomous codes (chain code) will ask consent of 
the volunteer to reach some parts of his/her personal data. 
These data will be processed to form the private profile of that 
user. Volunteers can accept or deny personal information 
request of the NGOs. 
B. Reaching Possible Volunteers Process 
The system will be constructed in such a way that NGOs 
will not need to search for volunteers. The steps of reaching 
possible volunteers will be as follows: 
Step 1: Propose an activity and specify the needed profile 
of the volunteers. 
Step 2: An autonomous code will query the volunteer 
activity profiles with generic criterias. The generic criterias 
will be experience, history of activism or the reputation. The 
system will query the database and supply the list of 
volunteers regarding to those criterias. These criterias are also 
planned to be automatically generated with the machine 
learning algorithms.  
Step 3: Smart contract will send invitations to this list of 
possible volunteers and then ask them for their enrolment in 
that volunteer activity. 
Step 4: NGO will ask these users to access their personal 
data which is stored in Hyperledger Indy ledger. Volunteers 
can give permission to the NGO for the requested data. Then 
the NGO can use this information to contact them to 
collaborate in an event. 
C. Gamification (Awarding) Process 
The NGO will reward the user with a specific amount of 
token after the event is completed. Current version of the 
Hyperledger Fabric does not support tokens, so assets will be 
used as a token. Token will be implemented in the future with 
the upcoming version of the Hyperledger Fabric. The token 
amount can be specified during the announcement of the 
activity and also the performance of the volunteer. These 
tokens will be used to form the value which will be used to 
show the global volunteer reputation. Gamification principles 
will be used to increase the volunteer motivation. 
 
Fig. 3. Workflow for the Activity Process of NGO-TR 
Gamification part will be implemented in the following 
studies. Different techniques will be tested with the volunteers 
of the Ahbap NGO and the appropriate game dynamics will 
be selected. The game dynamics which is planned to be 
implemented are [19]: 
• Points 
• Levels 
• Challenges 
• Badges 
• Leaderboards 
V. IMPLEMENTATION 
The implementation platform is selected as an ordinary PC 
with 8 GB of RAM, 1 TB of HDD and i7 Intel 2.7 GHz CPU. 
Hyperledger Fabric 1.4 is going to be used for tokenizing. The 
assets will be used for this, then tokens will be used with the 
Hyperledger Fabric 2.0 version. A couple of Hyperledger 
Fabric Peers representing different NGO nodes is installed and 
run in the Docker containers. Each NGO has its own channel 
in order to have transactions with its own members and a 
common channel for all nodes is going to be created. Each 
peer will have a database for keeping the assets (user public 
dataset) of the volunteers. Those assets will also keep the 
tokens (points) that a volunteer earned. 
A mobile application is going to be used by NGOs for 
reaching the volunteers’ public information which is stored in 
the Fabric ledger. Hyperledger Indy 1.9 is selected to manage 
the digital identities. The demo scenario is implemented as a 
proof of concept where it is shown that it’s possible to share 
the requested volunteer (user private) data with the NGO. 
Project code and details will be reachable through the project 
github repo (https://github.com/MSKU-BcRG/NGO-TR). 
VI. RESULTS AND CONCLUSION 
Our previous NGO communication platform proposal [17] 
was not focused on the volunteer and the NGO’s didn’t realize 
the benefits of such a communication platform. The world is 
changing as decentralized technology platforms ensure 
systems without intermediaries. In this NGO-TR proposal, we 
put the volunteer as the main user of the system and dream of 
a world where any citizen can contribute to any activity of any 
NGO. The volunteer does not need to be a member if the NGO 
permits that case. 
NGO-TR system is proposed for increasing the members 
activeness in the NGOs in this study. The proposed system is 
designed to increase the volunteers’ activeness and ensure the 
personal data privacy. All the activities will be transparent to 
all users in the system. The NGO’s will be able to actively 
monitor the volunteers’ activeness in the level that the 
volunteer permits. 
We believe that such a tamper-proof, transparent and 
autonomous system will help in managing the NGOs in a more 
democratic way. This study is a proof of concept that such a 
system is possible. Gamification techniques will help in the 
sustainability of the volunteers activeness. The decentralized 
technologies with ZKP will resolve the problems of identity 
management and privacy. However blockchain technology is 
still evolving and there are still challenges to be solved. Even 
this means changing the code and even the system eventually, 
we believe it worths the effort. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:16:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Future works will include improving this system 
according to the feedbacks from the NGOs. The system will 
be tested with NGOs and machine learning algorithms will be 
run to optimize the profiling process. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
We would like to thank Turkish NGO Ahbap 
(https://www.ahbap.org/) for their collaboration in this 
project. 
REFERENCES 
[1] R. Lehr-Lehnardt, “NGO legitimacy: reassessing democracy, 
accountability and transparency”, In Cornell Law School Inter-
University Graduate Student Conference Papers (p. 6), April 2005. 
[2] Birleşmiş Milletler Gönüllüleri (UNV) Programı Türkiye & GSM 
Gençlik Servisleri Merkezi, “Türkiye’de gönüllülük: gönüllülüğün 
rolünün ve katkılarının keşfedilmesi [volunteering in Turkey: the 
discovery of the role and contributions of volunteerism]”, unpublished. 
[3] S. K. Bista, S. Nepal, N. Colineau, and C. Paris, “Using gamification 
in an online community”, In 8th International Conference on 
Collaborative Computing: Networking, Applications and Worksharing 
(CollaborateCom) (pp. 611-618). IEEE, October 2012. 
[4] A. Bakre, N. Patil, and S. Gupta, “Implementing decentralized digital 
identity using blockchain”, International Journal of Engineering 
Technology Science and Research, 4(10), pp. 379-385, 2017. 
[5] M. L. Arslan, “Sivil Toplum Kuruluşlarında Gönüllülük: Sorunlar ve 
Çözüm Yolları [Volunteering in Civil Society Organizations: Problems 
and Solutions]”, unpublished. 
[6] S. Nakamoto, "Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system", 
unpublished. 
[7] A. Ö. Gür,Ş. Öksüzer, and E. Karaarslan, “Blockchain based metering 
and billing system proposal with privacy protection for the electric 
network”, In 2019 7th International Istanbul Smart Grids and Cities 
Congress and Fair (ICSG) (pp. 204-208). IEEE, April 2019. 
[8] The Linux Foundation, “BC aims to cut government red tape with 
Hyperledger Indy”, unpublished. 
[9] C. Saraf and S. Sabadra, “Blockchain platforms: A compendium”, In 
2018 IEEE International Conference on Innovative Research and 
Development (ICIRD) (pp. 1-6). IEEE, May 2018. 
[10] B. Peischl, J. Schantl, and A. Holzinger, “Energizing people's work: 
transforming organizations through gamification”, In 2014 11th 
International Conference on e-Business (ICE-B), pp. 201-208, August 
2014. 
[11] M. Sailer, J. Hense, J. Mandl, and M. Klevers, “Psychological 
perspectives on motivation through gamification”, Interaction Design 
and Architecture Journal, (19), pp.28-37, 2014. 
[12] K. Kapp, “Gamification: separating fact from fiction”, unpublished. 
[13] S. Jessen, J. Mirkovic, and C. Ruland, “User and stakeholder 
requirements of eHealth support tool viewed in a self-determination 
theory lens”, In 2017 IEEE 30th International Symposium on 
Computer-Based Medical Systems (CBMS), pp. 682-683, June 2017. 
[14] O. Goldreich (Ed.), “Providing sound foundations for cryptography: on 
the work of Shafi Goldwasser and Silvio Micali”, Morgan & Claypool, 
2019. 
[15] E. Karaarslan and E. Adiguzel, “Blockchain Based DNS and PKI 
Solutions”, IEEE Communications Standards Magazine, 2(3), pp.52-
57, 2018. 
[16] S. Y. Lim, et al. “Blockchain technology the identity management and 
authentication service disruptor: a survey”, International Journal on 
Advanced Science, Engineering and Information Technology, 8(4-2), 
pp. 1735-1745, 2018. 
[17] E. Karaarslan, B. Yorgan, F. Civelekoğlu, and F. İkiz, “Sivil toplum 
kuruluşları iletişim platformu [Civil society organizations 
communication platform]”, X. Türkiye'de İnternet Konferansı, 2006. 
[18] T. Potze, “Gamification on the blockchain; creating real value”, 
unpublished. 
[19] A. Gazzerro, “Enterprise gamification: the ultimate guide”, 
unpublished. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:16:45 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.