Special issue on the current trends in E-learning Assessment
Vol.:(0123456789)
Journal of Computing in Higher Education (2020) 32:1–8
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12528-019-09235-w
1 3
GUEST EDITORIAL
Special issue on the current trends in E‑learning 
Assessment
Juan A. Lara1 · Shadi Aljawarneh2 · Sonia Pamplona1
Published online: 12 August 2019 
© Springer Science+Business Media, LLC, part of Springer Nature 2019
Abstract
In this full review paper, the recent emerging trends in E-learning Assessment have 
been reviewed and explored to address the recent topics and contributions in the era 
of Distance Education. This includes a set of rigorously reviewed world-class manu-
scripts addressing and detailing state-of-the-art, frameworks and techniques research 
projects in the area of E-learning Assessment, using different approaches such as 
Blockchain, Gamification, Process Mining, among others. Based on this systematic 
review, we have put some recommendations and suggestions for researchers, practi-
tioners and scholars to improve their research quality in this area.
Introduction to the domain of research
Assessment is an essential element in a higher education e-learning scenario (Jafar 
Jalali et al. 2018; Daradoumis et al. 2013; Lara et al. 2014; Bulut 2019). E-learning 
is a form of distance learning that is completely virtualized through an electronic 
channel (medium), like the Internet, for example, using learning process support 
tools (Wong et al. 2019; Ng 2016; Barana and Marchisio 2016; Lizcano et al. 2019; 
Aljawarneh 2019; Esposito et al. 2018).
In e-learning environments, parties involved in the teaching–learning process do 
not share a physical space of interaction, which can give rise to a spatial and tempo-
ral gap that poses interesting challenges for assessing students’ acquisition of knowl-
edge and skills (Daradoumis et al. 2013).
Assessment for e-learning requires effort on the part of the educational com-
munity to propose methods, strategies, and procedures in order to achieve effective 
and efficient processes (Bulut 2019). In particular, there are many open problems 
in E-learning Assessment related areas such as self-assessment (Wong et al. 2019; 
 * Shadi Aljawarneh 
 saaljawarneh@just.edu.jo
1 Escuela de Ciencias Técnicas e Ingeniería, Madrid Open University, UDIMA, Ctra. De la 
Coruña, km 38.500 – Vía de Servicio, 15, 28400 Collado Villalba, Madrid, Spain
2 Software Engineering Department, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, Jordan
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/s12528-019-09235-w&domain=pdf
2 J. A. Lara et al.
1 3
Dabowsa et  al. 2018; Aljawarneh and Vangipuram 2018; Elberkawi et  al. 2016; 
Aljawarneh et al. 2016a, c; Radhakrishna et al. 2017; Aljawarneh et al. 2007), peer-
assessment (Ng 2016), automated assessment (Barana and Marchisio 2016), among 
others.
Machine learning and information security techniques (Radhakrishna et al. 2017; 
Aljawarneh et al. 2016a, b; Aljawarneh et al. 2007; Radhakrishna et al. 2016, 2018; 
Aljawarneh 2017; Kalpana et al. 2016; Elkobaisi et al. 2015; Aljawarneh et al. 2017) 
and approaches have been used in assessment for e-learning to improve the learning 
quality for higher education.
The purpose of this paper is to describe some important papers that authors have 
contributed to this special issue with respect to some of the areas mentioned above, 
which constitute the most advanced and recent vision on the topic of E-learning 
Assessment so far.
In this introductory paper, a related work includes the summaries of the selected 
papers have been explored in “Related work: the selected papers” section. “Dis-
cussions and recommendations” section includes a set of recommendations for 
researchers, practitioners and scholars to improve their research quality in this area. 
In “Conclusions” section, the conclusions have been dawn.
Related work: the selected papers
The purpose of this special issue is to present original contributions of studies on 
the design, analysis, and implementation of assessment in e-learning environments 
to deepen understanding of the performance and learning outcomes of individuals 
and groups, contribute new knowledge, and encourage innovation. We have included 
papers that include discussions of the implementation of software and/or hardware 
approaches but that also focus on the implications for the improvement of learning 
assessment. Priority has been given to papers that demonstrate a strong grounding 
in learning theory and/or rigorous educational research design. All accepted works 
include an exhaustive validation and include extraordinarily new ideas in the area.
The special issue includes 10 papers, which have been subject to a rigorous peer-
review process. Each paper has been reviewed by two independent experts. The rest 
of this section includes a summary of the selected papers.
In the paper “A Supervised Learning Framework: Using assessment to identify 
students at risk of dropping out of a MOOC”, Monllaó et al. propose a method o 
ease the evaluation and usage of prediction models in Moodle. They abstract out the 
most relevant elements of prediction models and develop an analytics framework for 
Moodle. Apart from the software framework, they also present a case study model 
which uses variables based on assessments to predict students at risk of dropping out 
of a Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) that has been offered eight times from 
2013 to 2018, including a total of 46,895 students. A neural network is trained with 
data from past courses and the framework generates insights about students at risk 
in ongoing courses. Predictions are then generated after the first, the second, and the 
third quarters of the course. The average accuracy that they achieve is 88.81% with a 
0.9337 F1 score and a 73.12% of the area under the ROC curve.
3
1 3
Special issue on the current trends in E-learning Assessment  
The paper “Psychological Impact of E-learning on Social Network Sites: Online 
Students’ Attitudes and their Satisfaction with Life” by Vate-U-Lan, reports on the 
findings of a study pertaining to the psychological impact of e-learning on social 
network sites. The findings have resulted by means of a correlational analysis 
between attitude towards e-learning on social network sites and satisfaction with life 
of students experienced with e-learning experiences. It was based on an online sur-
vey of 607 valid responses with e-learning experiences gathered from 896 online 
respondents. The gender profile was balanced (males 50.7% and females 49.3% 
respectively). The analysis found that students who had experience of e-learning on 
social network sites also had a positive score on the Satisfaction with Life Scale 
(females 4.40 out of 6, SD = 0.91 and males 4.38 out of 6, SD = 0.9). The attitudes 
towards e-learning were also positive (female 4.34 out of 6, SD = 1.0 and male 4.12 
out of 6, SD = 1.2). The relationship between e-learning attitudes and satisfaction 
with life was investigated using the Spearman Rank Order Correlation (rho) statistic. 
The research data shows a significant positive association between attitudes towards 
e-learning and satisfaction with life by females and males.
In “Effects of User Perceptions of SAP ERP System on User Learning and 
Skills”, Shim & Shim present a study that examines the effects of playfulness and 
anxiety as perceived by users in relation to SAP enterprise resource planning (ERP) 
system on users’ learning of business processes and users’ skills to use the system. 
Data was collected from a survey of college students who took a course on busi-
ness process integration with ERP system where students used SAP ERP system to 
complete course works on business processes. System playfulness is found to have a 
small positive effect on user learning and skills without any controls but the positive 
effect disappears after controlling for gender and prior experiences. System anxiety 
is found to have a large negative effect on both user learning and skills. These results 
suggest that enhancing the playfulness of SAP ERP system can help improve the 
user’s learning of business processes and skills to use the system, but that reducing 
the anxiety of the system is far more important in improving the user’s learning of 
business processes and the user’s skills to use the system.
In the paper “Reviewing and exploring innovative ubiquitous learning tools in 
higher education”, by Aljawarneh, various e-learning tools like Wikipedia, MOO-
DLE, Web 2.0, Web 3.0 and Blackboard have been evaluated. They also comment 
on key aims regarding each tool and investigate the disadvantages and advantages. 
Based on this analysis, a global view regarding the current as well as future ten-
dencies pertaining to ubiquitous e-learning tools is obtained and thus possible key 
comments are provided for employing e-learning tools like MOODLE, Web 2.0 and 
Web 3.0 in the classroom. Based on their teaching experience, MOODLE was found 
to be efficient in the development of e-learning. MOODLE was favored by a major-
ity of authors and practitioners rather than Blackboard. However, MOODLE cannot 
be considered a fully pure social software since it does not include social networks. 
In this review, the scope of employing ubiquitous learning environments has been 
presented in higher education contexts. However, it increases the requirement for 
transparent research that shows practical implications to generalize future devel-
opment processes. Moreover, it was shown that e-learning 3.0 is one amongst the 
key trends employing Web 3.0 tools for social learning. Also, on the Internet, quick 
4 J. A. Lara et al.
1 3
incorporation of new services into existing applications like integrating Wiki with 
Web 3.0 can be done easily. The primary risk here would be the fact that lecturers 
and students are not fully aware that these web services are not controlled by their 
universities. Since these servers have been installed in many different countries, the 
principles and privacy laws vary from country to country.
In the work “Process Mining for self-regulated learning assessment in eLearn-
ing”, Cerezo et  al.’ objective was to discover students’ self-regulated learning 
processes during an eLearning course by using Process Mining Techniques. They 
applied a new algorithm in the educational domain called Inductive Miner over the 
interaction traces from 101 university students in a course given over one semester 
on the Moodle 2.0 platform. Data was extracted from the platform’s event logs with 
21,629 traces in order to discover students’ self-regulation models that contribute 
to improving the instructional process. The Inductive Miner algorithm discovered 
optimal models in terms of fitness for both Pass and Fail students in this dataset, as 
well as models at a certain level of granularity that can be interpreted in educational 
terms, which are the most important achievement in model discovery. They can con-
clude that although students who passed did not follow the instructors’ suggestions 
exactly, they did follow the logic of a successful self regulated learning process as 
opposed to their failing classmates. The Process Mining models also allow examin-
ing which specific actions the students performed, and it was particularly interesting 
to see a high presence of actions related to forum-supported collaborative learning 
in the Pass group and an absence of those in the Fail group.
In the paper “E-learning Assessment for Tourism Education LISREL Assisted 
Intercultural Tourism Perception and Data Integrated Satisfaction Perspectives”, 
Qiu & Qi state that with the intensification of global integration, education inter-
nationalization has become one of the important indicators for evaluating the level 
of higher education development in a country. From the total income of tourism 
in recent years and its contribution to China’s GNP, it can be seen that the tour-
ism industry has a strong development momentum. Tourism culture has become a 
mobile culture of which essence is cross-cultural tourism. Therefore, studying tour-
ism from an intercultural perspective is an inevitable trend under the globalization 
of international tourism. Meanwhile, the contribution of tourism education talents 
is an important guarantee for the sustainable development of tourism. The dominant 
growth of the tourism industry has undoubtedly promoted the in-depth development 
of tourism education. Therefore, the development of tourism education and tourism 
industry should be a dynamic development pattern which promotes each other. This 
article regards the relationship between perception and satisfaction as the starting 
point and introduces the LISREL model into cross-cultural tourism research. This 
paper constructs a cross-cultural tourism research model and studies the relationship 
between perception and satisfaction, which can also be used to study other aspects 
of cross-cultural tourism.
In the work “Blockchain-based approach to create a model of trust in open 
and ubiquitous higher education”, Lizcano & Lara evaluate the benefits of the 
blockchain (or distributed ledger) technology and advocates a decentralised 
model of confidence for transactions based on an academic crypto currency. In 
this approach blockchain is used to manage transactions of content, teaching 
5
1 3
Special issue on the current trends in E-learning Assessment  
and competencies, assessed by consensus by students, trainers and employers, to 
eliminate once and for all the “gap” between the academic world and the working 
world. This paper aims to address the current challenges of an increasingly dis-
persed, open and ubiquitous higher education. The proposed model can be imple-
mented in any training institution to adapt its teaching to the specific needs of 
professional profiles validated by employers in the sector. This model has been 
validated by means of a prototype with more than acceptable results.
The paper “Web Gamification with Problem Simulators for Teaching Engi-
neering”, by De la Peña et  al., present the development of a web board game 
with six categories of problems for the Industrial Systems Optimization Tech-
niques subject, which is part of the Industrial Organization Engineering curricu-
lum at Madrid Open University. The game relies on case-study simulators for six 
categories of problems in such way that the cases presented to the students are 
always different. Students receive instant feedback about the accurateness of their 
response as well as the correct solution. The results of the experience, based on 
data obtained and surveys carried out, indicate that the board game is dynamic 
and motivational as well as academically encouraging.
The paper “Investigating Variation in Learning Processes in a FutureLearn 
MOOC”, by Rizvi et al., investigates the intersection between learning design and 
the temporal process of engagement in MOOC courses. This study investigates 
the detailed processes of engagement using educational process mining (EPM) 
in a FutureLearn science course (N = 2086 learners) and applying an estab-
lished taxonomy of learning design to classify learning activities. The analyses 
were performed on three groups of learners categorized based upon their click-
ing behaviour. The process-mining results show at least one dominant pathway in 
each of the three groups, though multiple popular additional pathways were iden-
tified within each group. All three groups remained interested and engaged in the 
various learning and assessment activities. The findings from this study suggest 
that in the analysis of voluminous MOOC data there is value in first clustering 
learners and then investigating detailed progressions within each cluster that take 
the order and type of learning activities into account. The approach is promis-
ing because it provides insight into variation in behavioural sequences based on 
learners’ intentions for earning a course certificate. These insights can inform the 
targeting of analytics-based interventions to support learners and inform MOOC 
designers about adapting learning activities to different groups of learners based 
on their goals.
Finally, Fernández-Chamorro et  al., authors of the paper “Assessing prior 
knowledge of statistics in an online university: a case study”, analyze the rela-
tion between entry path to a degree and the prior statistical competence of the 
students on the Statistics and Probability course at an online University. This 
was done by assessing prior knowledge via the administration of a pretest on the 
course analyzed. The sample includes 108 students from different Faculties of an 
online University. The statistical analysis shows, on the one hand, that students 
have certain difficulties with some concepts related to Probability and Descriptive 
Statistics, and on the other, the influence of the entry path on the understanding 
of these concepts.
6 J. A. Lara et al.
1 3
Discussions and recommendations
A number of recommendations have been suggested to improve the research in 
this field as follows:
• More importance should be given to E-learning Assessment in Data Sci-
ence projects, since Assessment-related data have proved to be very useful to 
extract valuable knowledge and vice versa, that is, Data Science techniques 
have proved to provide important information to better understand Assessment 
processes.
• Formal education is not the only environment where E-learning Assessment 
play a crucial role, since there are other domains (in company learning, tourism-
related learning) where it is also important. Therefore, those domains should be 
explored in search of new findings with respect to E-learning Assessment.
• It is important to take into account that nowadays E-learning Assessment takes 
place in a scenario of ubiquitous education and therefore new approaches, such 
as Blockchain technology, must be used to deal with this issue.
• E-learning Assessment is a multidisciplinary area of importance in Social Net-
work Analysis, Gamification strategies or Prior Knowledge evaluation, so some 
more research should be done in those areas.
Conclusions
In this special issue, 10 selected papers have been included that present important 
advancements in the area of E-learning Assessment. The selected papers present 
interesting studies about the development of this area, works about promising exist-
ing technologies and outstanding research about theories and methods that will play 
an important role in the future of this discipline.
As guest editors, we are aware of the fact that this issue cannot completely cover 
all the advancements in this area, but we expect that this special issue can stimulate 
further research in the domain of E-learning Assessment.
Acknowledgements We would like to thank the referees who have reviewed the papers for providing a 
valuable feedback to authors. We would also like to thank the authors for their manuscripts that represent 
an important contribution to the existing knowledge in the area. Finally, we would like to thank Professor 
Stephanie L. Moore, Editor-in-Chief, Professor M. J. Bishop, former Editor-in-Chief, and editorial assis-
tants of Journal of Computing in Higher Education for their support during the preparation of this issue.
References
Aljawarneh, S. (2017). Online banking security measures and data protection. USA: IGI Global.
Aljawarneh, S. A. (2019). Reviewing and exploring innovative ubiquitous learning tools in higher educa-
tion. Journal of Computing in Higher Education. https ://doi.org/10.1007/s1252 8-019-09207 -0.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12528-019-09207-0
7
1 3
Special issue on the current trends in E-learning Assessment  
Aljawarneh, S. A., Jaradat, R., Maatuk, A. M., & Alhaj, A. (2016a). Gene profile classification: A pro-
posed solution for predicting possible diseases and initial results. In International conference on 
engineering & MIS (ICEMIS) (pp. 1–7).
Aljawarneh, S., Laing, C., & Vickers, P. (2007). Verification of web content integrity: A new approach to 
protect servers against tampering. In: The 8th annual postgraduate symposium on the convergence 
of telecommunications, networking and broadcasting, 28–29 June 2007, Liverpool.
Aljawarneh, S. A., Moftah, R. A., & Maatuk, A. M. (2016b). Investigations of automatic methods for 
detecting the polymorphic worms signatures. Future Generation Computer Systems, 60, 67–77. 
https ://doi.org/10.1016/j.futur e.2016.01.020.
Aljawarneh, S., Radhakrishna, V., Kumar, P. V., & Janaki, V. (2016c). A similarity measure for temporal 
pattern discovery in time series data generated by IoT. In International conference on engineering & 
MIS (ICEMIS) (pp. 1–4).
Aljawarneh, S. A., & Vangipuram, R. (2018). GARUDA: Gaussian dissimilarity measure for feature 
representation and anomaly detection in Internet of things. Journal of Supercomputing. https ://doi.
org/10.1007/s1122 7-018-2397-3.
Aljawarneh, S. A., Vangipuram, R., Puligadda, V. K., & Vinjamuri, J. (2017). G-SPAMINE: An approach 
to discover temporal association patterns and trends in internet of things. Future Generation Com-
puter Systems, 74, 430–443. https ://doi.org/10.1016/j.futur e.2017.01.013.
Barana, A., & Marchisio, M. (2016). Ten good reasons to adopt an automated formative assessment 
model for learning and teaching mathematics and scientific disciplines. Procedia - Social and 
Behavioral Sciences, 228, 608–613.
Bulut, S. (2019). Assessing online learners’ academic self-efficacy in a symbiotic learning environment. 
http://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.33706 15.
Dabowsa, N. I. A., Amaitik, N. M., Maatuk, A. M., & Aljawarneh, S. A. (2018). A hybrid intelligent 
system for skin disease diagnosis. In Proceedings of 2017 international conference on engineering 
and technology, ICET 2017 (Vol. 2018–Jan). https ://doi.org/10.1109/ICEng Techn ol.2017.83081 57.
Daradoumis, T., Bassi, R., Xhafa, F., & Caballé, S. (2013) A review on massive e-learning (MOOC) 
design, delivery and assessment. In 2013 eighth international conference on P2P, parallel, grid, 
cloud and internet computing (pp. 208–213), Compiegne.
Elberkawi, E. K., El-firjani, N. F. M., Maatuk, A. M., & Aljawarneh, S. A. (2016). Usability evaluation of 
web-based systems: A new method and results. In International conference on engineering & MIS 
(ICEMIS) (pp. 1–5).
Elkobaisi, M. R., Maatuk, A. M., & Aljawarneh, S. (2015). A proposed method to recognize the research 
trends using web-based search engines. In ACM international conference proceeding series (Vol. 
24–26–Sept). https ://doi.org/10.1145/28329 87.28330 12.
Esposito, C., Su, X., Aljawarneh, S. A., & Choi, C. (2018). Securing collaborative deep learning in indus-
trial applications within adversarial scenarios. IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 14(11), 
4972–4981.
Jafar Jalali, S. M., Mahdizadeh, E., Mahmoudi, M. R., & Moro, S. (2018). Analytical assessment process 
of e-learning domain research between 1980 and 2014. International Journal of Management in 
Education, 12(1), 43–56.
Kalpana, G., Kumar, P. V., Aljawarneh, S., & Krishnaiah, R. V. (2016). Shifted adaption homomorphism 
encryption for mobile and cloud learning. Computers & Electrical Engineering, 9, 99. https ://doi.
org/10.1016/j.compe lecen g.2017.05.022.
Lara, J. A., Lizcano, D., Martínez, M. A., Pazos, J., & Riera, T. (2014). A system for knowledge discov-
ery in e-learning environments within the European Higher Education Area—Application to student 
data from Open University of Madrid, UDIMA. Computers & Education, 72, 23–36.
Lizcano, D., Lara, J. A., White, B., & Aljawarneh, S. (2019). Blockchain-based approach to create a 
model of trust in open and ubiquitous higher education. Journal of Computing in Higher Education. 
https ://doi.org/10.1007/s1252 8-019-09209 -y.
Ng, E. (2016). Fostering pre-service teachers’ self-regulated learning through self- and peer assessment 
of wiki projects. Computers & Education, 98, 180–191.
Radhakrishna, V., Aljawarneh, S. A., Kumar, P. V., & Choo, K.-K. R. (2018). A novel fuzzy gaussian-
based dissimilarity measure for discovering similarity temporal association patterns. Soft Comput-
ing, 22, 1903–1919.
Radhakrishna, V., Kumar, G. R., & Aljawarneh, S. (2017). Optimising business intelligence results 
through strategic application of software process model. International Journal of Intelligent Enter-
prise, 4(1–2), 128–142.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2016.01.020
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11227-018-2397-3
https://doi.org/10.1007/s11227-018-2397-3
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.01.013
http://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3370615
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICEngTechnol.2017.8308157
https://doi.org/10.1145/2832987.2833012
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2017.05.022
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2017.05.022
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12528-019-09209-y
8 J. A. Lara et al.
1 3
Radhakrishna, V., Kumar, P. V., & Janaki, V. (2016). Mining of outlier temporal patterns. In International 
conference on engineering & MIS (ICEMIS) (pp. 1–6).
Wong, T.-K., Xie, H., Zou, D., Wang, F. L., Tai Tang, J. K., Kong, A., et al. (2019) How to facilitate self-
regulated learning? A case study on open educational resources. Journal of Computers in Educa-
tion. https ://doi.org/10.1007/s4069 2-019-00138 -4.
Publisher’s Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in published 
maps and institutional affiliations.
Juan A. Lara is Associate Professor and Research Scientist at Madrid Open University, MOU, Spain. He 
is currently Head of Department of Computer Science and Director of the Group of Research in Knowl-
edge Management and Engineering. He is author of more than five online education books. He holds a 
Ph.D. in Computer Science and two Post Graduate Masters in Information Technologies and Emerging 
Technologies to Develop Complex Software Systems from Technical University of Madrid, Spain. He has 
published some book chapters and papers on several international conferences, and taken part in national 
and international research projects. He is author of more than a dozen papers published in international 
impact journals. His research interests in computer science include data mining, knowledge discovery in 
databases, data fusion, artificial intelligence and e-learning.
Shadi Aljawarneh is a ACM Senior member and a full professor of Software Engineering, at Jordan Uni-
versity of Science and Technology. He holds a B.Sc. degree in Computer Science from Jordan Yarmouk 
University, a M.Sc. degree in Information Technology from Western Sydney University and a Ph.D. in 
Software Engineering from Northumbria University-England. He has presented at and been on the organ-
izing committees for a high number of international conferences and is a board member of the Interna-
tional Community for ACM, IEEE, Jordan ACM Chapter, ACS, and others. A good number of his papers 
have been selected as “Best Papers” at conferences and journals. Also he has served as a conference chair, 
TPC chair for a good number of international conferences. Furthermore, he is an associate editor at Elec-
trical and Computer Journal, Elsevier and guest editor for many journals special issues.
Sonia Pamplona is a Ph.D. Associate Professor at the Universidad a Distancia de Madrid, UDIMA. She 
is a Computer Engineer with a Degree from the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid (UPM) and a Ph.D. 
in Computer Science from the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid. She currently teaches undergradu-
ate courses in Operating Systems and Human-Computer Interaction, and a postgraduate course in Visual 
Programming Tools for Learning. Her area of research is Engineering Education, with a special interest 
in online learning.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s40692-019-00138-4
	Special issue on the current trends in E-learning Assessment
	Abstract
	Introduction to the domain of research
	Related work: the selected papers
	Discussions and recommendations
	Conclusions
	Acknowledgements 
	References