Blockchain-Based Real Estate Market: One Method for Applying Blockchain Technology in Commercial Real Estate Market
Blochchain-based Real Estate market: one method for applying Blockchain
technology in Commercial Real Estate Market
Sobhan Latifi,
College of Computer Science,
Shahid Beheshti university of Tehran, Iran
Email: Sobhanlaitfi89@gmail.com
Yunpeng Zhang,
College of Technology
University of Houston, U.S.A.
Email: yzhan226@central.uh.edu
Liang-Chieh Cheng,
College of Technology
University of Houston, U.S.A.
Email: lcheng6@central.uh.edu
Abstract—Global real estate (RE) investments account more
than twice the size of the stock market. Yet the number
of investors in RE are much lower, because of the liquidity
and global access. Tenants, owners, and investors are barely
satisfied in the current system. In this paper, the goal is to try
out the employment of blockchain in RE market and represent
the facilities it can give to the RE market.The research to date
leads to the following conclusions: Blockchain technology and
smart contracts can sort out the classical issues that RE is
facing with, and they offer much more meaningful tools for a
game theoretic stable-priced market.
Index Terms—Blockchain technology, Commercial Real Estate,
Algorithm based Stable token
1. Introduction
RE investment is considered one of the safest options for
investing. For that we have: it provides security to investors
and is a hedge against inflation (money inflation). It is also
a physical asset that is excellent for portfolio diversification,
and can be non-volatile and essentially risk-free over a long
period of time. RE investment is available to everyone as
opposed to for experts only.
1.1. REs markets
The size of the professionally managed global RE in-
vestment market increased from USD 7.4 trillion in 2016
to USD 8.5 trillion in 2017 according to the MSCI (which
includes 2.97 Trillion from the U.S. market, 0.82 Trillion
from China plus Hong Kong, 0.79 Trillion from Japan, 0.72
Trillion from the UK and 0.51 Trillion from Germany),
whereas the whole global RE market counts a size of over
200 Trillion USD (see Savills Research Department) [9],
[10].
1.2. RE market drawbacks
RE with over 200 trillion USD is the single largest
asset class globally. However, the way business with this
asset class is carried out is not just complicated, but also
costly, non-transparent and highly inefficient [10]. Most
importantly, RE investments are even more out of bounds
for ordinary people. RE investments are dominated by
either institutional investors or by ultra-high-net-worth
individuals. This restrictive access prevents ordinary people
to profit from growing returns on RE investments. For
owners of RE, the value of their RE often serves as a
security for unforeseen eventualities. However, it is no
liquid wealth. To access the wealth ’trapped’ in their RE,
owners either have to sell off their equity in it or take
recourse to some financial vehicle which secures their
equity release [10].
In addition to these drawbacks, Commercial RE (CRE)
industry has been slow and problematic to innovate its
core business processes. Today, commercial brokers and
other middlemen are struggling hard with old-fashioned
technology, data sharing mechanism, inefficient cash flow
management, real-time performance data, and so forth.
These drawbacks lead to collusion and side effects for
tenants, owners and investors [17].
In accordance to IBISWorld, the global CRE industry
revenue totals $3385 trillion [8] and this indicates how
competitive the market is in the fierce condition that CRE
is operating within the narrow boundaries of prices, sales
comparables, lease rates, and also when previous transac-
tions and valuations that are kept secret by market players.
1.3. Blockchain technology
Blockchain is a shared database technology whose well-
known application has been to support Bitcoin digital cryp-
tocurrency. It works with linked databases that update digital
record books continuously [1]. Smart contracts are also
another concept that means: a work be done and be audited
automatically without the existence of middlemen. In smart
contracts, codes are laws and two parties in a transaction
agreed on its content [20].
Blockchain and smart contracts introduce a new set of tools
and framework to create a new generation of markets where
supply and demand is equipped with a secure commercial
transactions, and also with such various commercial rules
528
2019 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain)
978-1-7281-4693-5/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/Blockchain.2019.00002
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
and without the need for a central mediator sector. His-
torically, as like as online markets that have just altered
many traditional stores and systems, blockchain and smart
contracts will lead to a new type of peer-2-peer market that
is able to destabilize current running markets [1].
The usage of blockchain can be permissioned or
premissionless in that there is a trusted or trustless network
respectively. The necessity for using permissioned and
permissionless blockchains are shown in Fig. 1 [27]. As
this figure shows, blockchain is used when multiple entities
write to a shared database. If entities are unknown or want
anonymity, then a permissionless blockchain is preferred.
Otherwise, when they need trust, they desire a permissioned
blockchain [28].
Figure 1. The needs for using blockchain
In a technical view, a blockchain is a public ledger that
records chronologically all new transactions requesting a
new upload or modification [2]. Figure 2 shows a Ledger
and blockchain and their relation [29]. It shows that ledgers
can be figured as a history of all transactions that happened
up to now. World state, as a database, holds the current
values of different fields, and for this manner, blockchain is
a transaction log that records all the changes that determine
the world state.
Figure 2. Ledger and its subsections
Due to its nature for storing transaction’s log and history,
blockchain broadly can be used for asset management (trade
processing and settlement) even when there is no trust be-
tween seller and buyer or any other members in the network.
2. State of the Art, Literature Review, and
Opportunities
In fact like other markets, digitized world enhance mo-
bility, efficiency and transparency for one of the largest
global asset categories, namely RE. Due to the draw-
backs that centralized databases are facing, the emerge
of blockchain technology is able to be present and solve
some of these radical issues [3] in RE. Blockchain as a
decentralized one offers the following benefits:
• Tokenization: Blockchains make tokenisation busi-
ness models and economies possible–This is funda-
mental to tokenizing RE [11]. The liquidity problem
has always been the biggest problem of RE. Tok-
enization democratizes ownership of assets to split
assets into tokens that are stored on the blockchain.
People in different geographies and tax brackets now
have access to attractive investment opportunities
that they previously would not [10], [12].
• Transparency and Trust: Blockchain-based applica-
tions and businesses are by design transparent in
their transactions and building trust. The possibility
of frauds and ownership dispute can be almost elim-
inated with the high degree of transparency. Data
and transaction records cannot be manipulated or
tampered with. This makes blockchains ideal for
trust-free transactions.
• P2P transactions: Blockchains provide P2P transac-
tions a big thrust because by design they eliminate
intermediaries.
• Cost reduction: The current process of ownership
transfer can take months due to the various parties
involved and the need to verify the documentation
during various stages, usually with the assistance of
a lawyer. The blockchain technology will be able
to address this issue by deleting the middle parties
[10], [11].
• Smart contracts: A transaction using a smart contract
is completed entirely between the buyer and the
seller (or renter and landlord) and has no human
interaction. Transactions can be done in far less time
with far less chance of fraud. Computer protocols
check the legitimacy of the transaction and no agree-
ment can be completed until all of the terms are met
[13].
• Integrity and Security: The decentralized nature
of the Blockchain technology ensures that records
stored on it can’t be changed or controlled by a
single source, thus it provides security against ma-
licious attacks such as hacking.
• Property Title: Title insurance has grown to be up
to $15 billion per year by ensuring buyers that
529
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
their property is clear of old liens and debts. Ev-
ery municipality has their own specific method for
storing assets’ data. With the usage of blockchain,
considerable amount of time and money would be
saved and, and it could eliminate the need for title
insurance. It is also possible to store information
about construction, damages and improvements to
the title [12].
Applying blockchain in the realm of RE transactions
and land/title registries has drawn a considerable attention
and support from governments such as North America [4],
[21], [24], Europe [5], [25] , Dubai [6], [22] and Japan [7]–
all of which are economic giants. This simply means that
the CRE world is potential to embrace a faster, better and
more affordable way of taking its action. Forbes noted three
areas that blockchain has the ability to improve regarding
the RE market [9]: multiple listing service (MLS) property
data, title records, and transactions.
As such effective projects, aassio [14] is a blockchain-
based platform where people will get easy access to easily
invest, hold, buy or sell RE with other cryptocurrencies
or cryptoassets. Moreover, AgentMile [15] which received
FinancesOnline award aims to become the world’s first
decentralized commercial RE leasing platform powered by
artificial intelligence (AI). Properbuz [16] also aims to
decentralize a $217 trillion global RE market by devel-
oping a blockchain-based decentralized protocol. Besides
SMARTRealty [17] intends to employ smart contracts to
broaden the traditional contracts.
Today, new companies are having ICOs–initial coin offer-
ings, where one invests in desired market [13]. The graph
in Figure 3 shows the top 20 industries in 2018 with the
largest average ICO hard cap.
Figure 3. Funds for ICO hard caps for different industries
In addition to ICO, which is not backed by real assets
or sometimes does not support voting or owning rights,
another concept is going to be legalized in the coming year.
This method is called security token offering (STO) which
stipulates the blockchain-based projects to be backed by
real assets [19]. For this matter, RE can employ STO to
offer better solutions for its investors.
The discipline of game theory’s breakthrough came
with ”Theory of games and economic behavior”, published
in 1944 by Neumann. This was followed by important
work by John Nash (1950). Game theory had a major
influence on the development of several branches of
economics (industrial organization, international trade, etc.
Game theory, in fact, provides a formal language for the
representation and analysis of interactive situations like
market, where several entities–called players–take actions
that intend to affect each other [34].
All we do here in this paper is to present a model to
benefit all parties involved in the RE and be secure against
the mentioned problems. Issues like being resistant to
devaluation of investments (inflation and deflation), having
a stable price, and gaining interests and revenue are also of
paramount importance to demonstrate in this paper.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows: In the next
section, literature Review, and opportunities are reviewed
and the goal of the present paper is stated. Then we offer a
theory that is possible to accept after the emergence of the
blockchain and smart contacts. Making this offer leads to
giving a discussion in the subsequent section. Additionally,
features and facilities that out presented method can pro-
vide is explained. In last section, recapping the issue and
viewpoint, we come up with a conclusion.
3. Theory development
3.1. Technical issues and solution
As discussed, using blockchain and smart contract can
help having a secure and easier investment in RE market.
All that said, the technical issues are left unexplained. As a
classical issue, when it comes to ”supply and demand”, it
leads the price to fluctuate; it is not a good idea for stable
price tokens at all.
Over the centuries, human being used fiat or real assets
like gold as means of bartering goods. Both of them are
problematic in regards of time [31]: Fiat currency is not
trustworthy in long term and, neither is gold in the near term
(Fig 4, 5). That means that one can witness the devaluation
of fiat or gold in long or near term respectively. As the
value of money has an effective connection with ”purchasing
power” we draw our diagrams in respect with purchasing
power [31].
Hence, having a mechanism that keeps the value of
its currency stable over time is of high interest. The ideal
mechanism in question can be represented in Fig. 6, where in
both near and long term this ideal currency is not devalued.
In the rest of the section, we discuss this mechanism and
its feasibilities and features.
Before we elaborate our ideology, it must be mentioned
that the RE sphere along with the new era of blockchain
must have the following features:
530
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure 4. The shortcoming of fiat currency in long term
Figure 5. The shortcoming of Gold currency in near term
Figure 6. The ideal token(money) as a store of value
Feature 1: having RE tokenization (with T Tokens): for this,
a platform is needed to act as an investment ’gateway’ in
the blockchain economy. It will allow RE investors, tenants,
and property sellers to participate in tokenization processes.
With this tokenization, the tokens are countable, fungible
and divisible. Therefore, these tokens are ”unit of account”.
If people see that one token has these properties, they are
willing to specify the value of other assets with this tokens.
Also, as the price of T tokens are stable, they can be eligible
for being a ”medium of exchange”. This feature means that
both sides in a transaction agree upon the payments with T
tokens.
Besides, T tokens must be backed by real assets. Therefore,
they are valuable overtime, and they can provide the char-
acteristics of ”Store of value”. Being the store of value is
inherent in RE properties as their values are not perished
over the course of time.
Till now, for knowing the main characteristics of the pre-
sented tokens see Figure 7 [31]. Fiat money and gold already
fulfill these three functions, but they’re not able to perform
as certain currencies in different times. With the ideal system
we discuss later in this subsection, we propose tokens that
function as an ideal money every time.
Feature 2: using a crypto exchange (CE): CE is going to
Figure 7. The main characteristics of Token T
be a licensed and regulated crypto exchange, and tokens
will be listed on CE and can be traded on it along with
other cryptocurrencies or specified fiat money. With the ease
of exchanging tokens with fiat and other cryptocurrencies
the liquidity problem is met. This easily can state that this
system provides a ”medium of exchange” for all parties who
agreed upon the value of exchanged property or token.
Feature 3: providing open source mechanism: This will
provide the system with excellent features to offer innovative
solutions promoting efficient and sustainable future-living
concepts around RE. Giving an open source platform to
user can make them trust the system and see through its
performance.
Saying all the features of ideal money (or here ideal stable-
priced token), the procedural method to be applied in RE
market is as follows:
• Firstly, an ICO is held and investors are welcomed to
invest. With the funds that the project receive from
the ICO, REs assets are bought.
• Then the RE that are bought are tokenized to tokens
T (proportional to its value) and given to investors–
1T=$1. With this, the ICO implicitly is considered
as an STO. See the Figure 8. Token T is an ERC20-
type token basically created in Ethereum blockchain
and can be transfered through the platform between
different holders in their very own digital wallets.
The term ”platform” refers to the system that has
investors, buyers, sellers, tenants, owners, and RE
assets in overall, and launched with an online web-
page or application (Desktop, Mobile) and users can
connect to it and do their business work through it.
Figure 8. Scheme of platform
Now, we want to show how and why the price of T
is stable. Before starting, we must say that RE has
some entities: Investors, tenants, Owners, buyers and
sellers (see Figure 9).
– Tenants are those who hire houses and give
fiat money for their monthly rent payments.
– Owners are the landlords who have their
houses and look for tenants.
531
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
�
Figure 9. The RE entities
– Investors are the T holders where each of T
token has the value equal to 1 dollar.
– Buyers and sellers just want to find each other
and buy or sell their desired houses.
RE has its own inflation. Based on the annual
inflation, a T holder can have its own T tokens
with permitted inflation that is dedicated to the RE
market, i.e with having a T token its holder can have
T + %aT at the end of each month(this inflation
increase in RE is about %a monthly). Because we
pegged T token value to $1, this inflation rate is
considered with regards to 2 percent dollar inflation.
The Figure 10 shows that when a house price is $100
because of inflation of %50 (monthly) its price will
be $150. Therefore, each token part of the house
that is tokenized must be effected. As the value of
T token is stable to $1, the rising question is how it
is possible to handle this? The answer is simple: If
one investor has one token T in hand, his share will
be T + %50T at the end of the month.
Figure 10. Inflation effect on RE prices and simple solution for this inflation
Moreover, if a RE that is tokenized to T tokens be
hired by a tenant, a token can make a profit with
rent payments monthly (about %b). In this regard,
we can tell that the possible profit of having token
T can be represented monthly as: T + (a+ b)%T .
Notice that this is an ideal situation when token T is
hired by a tenant, otherwise, when the token is not
hired we can expect T + a%T (see Figure 11,12).
Figure 11. Owner-Tenant connection
Figure 12. Investor-Tenant connection. In this platform, for instance, shar-
ing the ownership of a house, investors can monthly receive %aT. In case
one tenant hires their house they receive more %bT for each of their T
tokens.
In fact, for hiring a house, this mechanism is estab-
lished by a smart contract (See Figure 9). Also, we
are to mention that as far as the platform can find
tenants, after receiving the rental payment, platform
rations this budget proportionally among T holders.
• The existence of tenants can make a change in the
price of T tokens(as shown in Figure 13).
So we have two situations :
More tenants: When tenants are increased to hire
houses: In this case the T price is expected to get
higher temporarily.
Less tenants: When tenants are decreased to hire
houses. This will happen when we have tokenized
some houses and there is no tenants for hiring the
house; this simply means that there are some T
tokens that can not make interest monthly.
As tenants are hiring houses they pay fiat and make
the house owner more profit. Besides, these hires,
as they make more profit for T holders or owners,
makes T tokens more popular in the market. The
result of this popularity make the price of T be
higher that $1. To tackle this, the platform needs
to mint more T tokens and give them away in
the network to regulate the supply proportional to
demand; so, the platform will decide to receive the
fiat from tenants and buy more RE and equally give
T tokens to T holders. With this action, supply will
532
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure 13. How the T tokens’ price are affected, from left to right
be regulated as a proper response to the increased
demand.
A% of the Tokens are distributed to T holders (here
the previous investors), and for about B% are given
to the platform owners and developers for further
needs.
Accordingly, when tenants are low, the current pay-
ments are gathered in fiat and are give to T holders
in fiat.
When the tendency of the majority of T holders
is to sell their tokens, the value of tokens intends
to drop. To face it, the monthly interest is paid in
fiat. A% of the interest are distributed to T holders,
and for about B% are again given to the platform
owners and developers. To understand these details
see the Figure 14.
Figure 14. Distribution of rent profit
Therefore, this token is not inflated like fiat (
fiat is easy to be injected to the market by the
government), and nor it is like gold that is hard to be
mined. Therefore, with the aid of this mechanism,
T tokens are being able to be responsive in near
and long term.
• A small percent of payments’ fees prevent malicious
transactions that help reduce and control the traffic
of platform.
4. Discussion
4.1. Facilities and innovation
In this platform, with blockchain, STO represent frac-
tional ownership of real property. Companies have tried
to crowd fund RE before, but the issue was always the
liquidity of the ownership. If I buy a house with another
person and they want to sell in a year and I don’t want
to, I either have to buy him out or wait until that person
be eager to sell. Depending on the price of the property, I
may not be able to buy him out. But, here with having a T
token, it allows investors to trade the tokens out for fiat or
other properties in the portfolio, offering liquidity with less
liability. undoubtedly, investing in RE that needed a large
budget in traditional systems are easier in this new system.
The inborn features of blockchain, such as security, data
verification, the ability to promote disintermediation in CRE,
fair rights for participants, low cost, and transparency [9]
prompt us to use blockchain facilities in the presented
platform to overcome such issues [23].
When it comes to applying blockchain in terms of
cryptocurrencies we are to pinpoint that volatility has
prevented widespread adoption of cryptocurrencies as
payment for RE, though crypto-based RE transactions are
continuing to grow. Until cryptocurrencies gain enough
stability, it is unlikely that they will become a fully
mainstream method of currency in the housing market.
Hence, the first step to assure the users of a new innovation
in RE is that they must be confident about the value of
their tokens–where the proposed method can provide a
store of value for T tokens.
As a stable price token, the T tokens are not like algorithm-
backed tokens like Ampleforth [31], Kwala [32], or Basis
[33]. The difference between T tokens and these algorithmic
tokens are that T tokens are backed with RE assets and
algorithmic tokens lack any asset-back mechanism– this
makes the presented tokens more crucial for having a stable
price where it needs a wise plan.
On another hand, as an asset-backed token, T token is
not as like as MakerDao [30] that tries to lock up more
value than its stable token dai. Moreover, the assets that T
tokens are pegging to are producing profits themselves (as
of rental payments) and have their own standard inflation
market while dai(its stable token) is backed by a fluctuated
cryptocurrency like Ether that is not making any profit as
a backed cryptocurrency.
4.2. Formal representation and discussion
The innovation method for providing a stable price token
T can be formally stated.
To understand the viewpoint, one game theory scheme
can be presented: if one applies Nash equilibrium game
theory viewpoint [18], it is easy to say that we have
only two actors(players) namely Market and System. All
that Market can do (as strategies) is to take an action
that lead to a situation where Supply > Demand or
supply < Demand for token T. Strategies designated for
the actor System is: Issue T or Give F iat. By this, the
system(our platform) regulate supply with demand.
With considering the payoffs for game between actors
Market and System one payoff-strategy scheme can be
shown like one in Figure 15. The (., .) is defined for
system’s payoff and market’s payoff, i.e (system payoff ,
market payoff) in which system payoff represents the
533
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
goodness of T token’s value (not inflated or deflated), and
market payoff represents the equilibrium between supply
and demand.
Figure 15. payoff-strategy scheme in a game between market and system
The scores in Figure 15 are given as follows:
• When Supply > Demand, the worst case that
might happen is to Issue T ; this will mostly deval-
uate T tokens. We have set the (-1,-1) as both actors,
namely Market and System, will make loss.
• When Supply <= Demand, if System does
Give F iat action, investors are not satisfied. We
have set the (-0.5,-1) where Market and System
will make loss, The impact of this action on Market
is more tangible and that is why we set -1 for it.
• When Supply > Demand, Give F iat action is a
good move. We have set the (0.5,1) where Market
and System will both make profit. The situation is
not highly ideal for System, as its ultimate desire
is to engage more investors with issuing T tokens;
For that we set 0.5 to show this desire.
• In fact, when Supply > Demand, Issue T action
is the best move for each Market and System. We
have set the (1,1) since they make profit ultimately.
System engages more investors with issuing T to-
kens, and the need in Market is handled properly.
In this game, Nash equilibrium says that there are two
mutual good solutions in this game: (1,1) and (0.5,1), while
(1,1) is a preference.
As one might notice, this game in reality is not a
simultaneous game. In reality Market takes an action and
in a chronological manner the System take a responsive
reaction. The game tree for this sequential game (extensive
form) is shown in Figure 16. By this figure, the best
mutual payoff is when Supply < Demand and System
chooses to issue tokens. The subordinate one is when
Supply > Demand and System pays fiat to users.
Figure 16. Game tree of the game between market and system
4.3. Implementation
In fact the presented method mostly aims at regulating
supply with demand, in regards with applying standard
inflation of RE market. All the platform does is running
smart contracts verified through transparent codes.
As another fact, today we have a broad spectrum of
governmental and regional policies that are different from
each other. So we need an RE platform working on its own
blockchain and be able to apply different rules according
to the country and legislation of the project itself, and
sometimes it needs to play with %a and %b convenient to
that country (These percentages are illustrated earlier).
All said, the best way that can be addressed is to use one
network as like as Ethereum letting different policies being
applied, tokens be created, and then after raising funds
in ICO, allowing us to take them to the customized and
proprietary blockchain of our own. Undoubtedly, as users
are not known to each other one permissionless blockchain
is used to help this trustless network.
Smart contracts that employed by the project do not
only define the rules, terms, and penalties of an agreement,
they can also automatically enforce those obligations or
enforce the agreed upon penalties for failure to perform
obligations. Like other business sectors, AI tools (tools like
Chatbots with customers, put a price tag on homes [24],
price prediction [25], finding potential customers [26]) can
also act in an Oracle-based system and benefit the project.
Here in Fig (17) we present an overview of the architecture
and its touch-points with the external world. With a market
oracle, the current price of token T is given to the system,
and with this price the system decides how to manage the
functions of actors.
Figure 17. Architecture
5. Conclusion
We discussed that this is possible to provide liquidity
to RE market and remove middlemen– classical issues in
RE. For this, blockchain technology helps fulfill this plan
by harnessing smart contracts.
534
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Also multiple benefits including de-risked asset with a sta-
ble price token in RE market is implemented that can be
protected against manipulative actions of market bubbles.
Other benefits will be process integrity, network reliabil-
ity and longevity, faster transactions and lower transaction
costs. To this matter, the shown system can benefit tenants,
owners and investors all in a better way. And also, with an
STO-like nature it can assure investors to budget on their
future purposes.
References
[1] ”(GNC) ICO, Token Sale, 1 ETH 500 GNC”, Jan 2019,
https://greencointoken.com/.
[2] ”Bahiticoin”, 2018, https://bahiticoin.com/.
[3] ”Global Real Estate Market Outlook” 2 Apr 2019,
https://www.cbre.com/research-and-reports/2017-Global-RE-Market-
Outlook.
[4] ”Council Post: Developments And Adoption Of Blockchain
In The U.S. Federal Government. ”, Jan 2018,
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbestechcouncil/2018/01/25/
developments-and-adoption-of-blockchain-in-the-u-s-federal-
government/#427d2b893d99.
[5] ”Blockchain in Europe”, Feb 2018,
https://hackernoon.com/blockchain-in-europe-b914cf1a9ea1.
[6] ”Dubai’s land registry is world’s first to embrace Blockchain”, 2017,
http://www.property-report.com/detail/-/blogs/dubai-s-land-registry-is-
world-s-first-government-entity-to-embrace-blockch-13.
[7] Tech in Asia, ”Connecting Asia’s startup ecosystem”, Oct 2017,
http://www.techinasia.com/japan-financial-blockchain-adoption.
[8] IBISWorld, ”Industry Market Research, Reports, and Statistics”,
https://www.ibisworld.com/industry-trends/global-industry-
reports/real-estate-renting/commercial-real-estate.html.
[9] Max Crowdfund, ”Dominium Whitepaper”, 2018,
https://dominium.me.
[10] Aassio, ”aassio whitepaper”, 2018, https://aass.io/.
[11] Iotokens, ”iatokens Whitepaper”, 2018, https://www.iatokens.com/.
[12] ”Three ways blockchain technology will rev-
olutionize real estate in 2019”, Nov 2018,
https://www.forbes.com/sites/forbesrealestatecouncil/2018/11/15/three-
ways-blockchain-technology-will-revolutionize-real-estate-in-2019/.
[13] ”Blockchain Technology to Resolve Real Estates Problems”, Jul
2018, https://blockchain.wtf/2018/07/industry-impacts/enterprise/real-
estate/.
[14] aasio, ”aasio Whitepaper”, 2018, https://aass.io/.
[15] Agentmile, ”Agentmile Whitepaper”, 2018,
https://www.agentmile.com/.
[16] properbuz, ”properbuz Whitepaper”, 2018,
https://www.properbuz.com/.
[17] Smartreality, 2018, ”http://www.smartrealty.io”.
[18] Osborne, Martin J.; Rubinstein, Ariel. A Course in Game Theory.
Cambridge, MA: MIT. p. 14. ISBN 9780262150415, 1994.
[19] Mobo, ”Mobo Whitepaper”, 2018, https://www.mobu.io.
[20] Agric, ”Agric Whitepaper”, 2018,http://agric.online.
[21] Chellecoin, ”Chellecoin Whitepaper”, 2018,
http://www.chellecoin.com.
[22] Habibicoin, ”Habibicoin Whitepaper”, 2018, https://habibicoin.io.
[23] Brickvest, ”The global real estate liquidity platform”, 2019 ,
https://brickvest.com/.
[24] Skyline, ”Real Estate Investment Meets Artificial Intelligence”, 2018,
https://www.skyline.ai/.
[25] proportunity, ”New York Creative Marketing Solutions - Upportu-
nity”, 2018, https://proportunity.co/.
[26] Rex, ”A Smarter Way to Buy and Sell Homes”,
https://www.rexchange.com/.
[27] Wagenaarm. 2018, Blockchain Decision Tree. steemKR. Accessed
March 2019.
[28] James, Febin John, ”How to Validate If Your Ideas Need a
Blockchain”, 2018, https://devopedia.org/types-of-blockchains.
[29] ”A Blockchain Platform for the Enterprise hyperledger-
fabricdocs master documentation”, 2018, https://hyperledger-
fabric.readthedocs.io.
[30] makerdao, ”Makerdao whitepaper”, 2018, https://makerdao.com/.
[31] Ampleforth, ”Ampleforth whitepaper”, 2018,
https://www.ampleforth.org/.
[32] Kowala, ”Kowala whitepaper”, 2018, https://www.kowala.tech/.
[33] Basis, ”Basis whitepaper”, 2018, https://www.basis.io/.
[34] Bonanno G, Game Theory (open access textbook with 165 solved
exercises). arXiv preprint arXiv:1512.06808, 2015 Dec 21.
535
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:55 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.