A Peek at Metaverse Society from Web 3.0 Games: A Preliminary Case Study of Dark Forest
A Peek at Metaverse Society from Web 3.0 Games:
A Preliminary Case Study of Dark Forest
Zexin Lin†‡, Nanjun Yao†‡, Xiao Wu§, Lin Wang†∗
†Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, China
‡The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China
§White Matrix Inc., China
{zexinlin, nanjunyao}@link.cuhk.edu.cn, wuxiao@whitematrix.io, zeotuqi@foxmail.com
Abstract—The notion of metaverse powered by blockchain
technology has been buzzing in recent years, raising expectations
for an advanced social vision of Web 3.0. Thus far, online
multiplayer games are considered to be the sole counterparts
of the full-state metaverse, and their in-game group behavior
becomes a microscopic sample for estimating social dynamics
in metaverse. In this paper, we select massive data from Dark
Forest relating to players’ behavior to explore how and to
what extent the web 3.0 game simulates the social system. By
analyzing and clustering the time series of players’ behavior,
We reveal the consistency of behavioral habits both inside and
outside of the simulated gaming system; suggest that games
based on blockchain technology have the advantage of digitally
representing reality, and therefore constitute a key venue for
future social practice.
Index Terms—Metaverse, Blockchain, Web 3.0, Game, Social
Study
I. INTRODUCTION
With the support of blockchain technologies, the metaverse
[1] has become the hottest topic in the Web 3.0 community
all over the world. Many researchers in both industry and
academia have been attracted by this new decentralized digital
society. On the other hand, digital games, especially massive
multiplayer online (MMO) games, have been widely studied
from the cultural and social perspectives. Its influence on
players, and the influence of players on games has been con-
firmed by many literature. The players’ behavior in different
game genres may diverse from each other due to distinct
player groups and game rules. These characteristics, in turn,
can reflect, to some extent, the social systems that arise in
the context of the game’s regulations. Therefore, Web 3.0
games, a.k.a blockchain games [2], becomes a perfect subject
for metaverse social study, given the metaverse is yet to be
constructed. Built on smart contracts hosted by blockchain,
Web 3.0 games support cryptocurrencies and Non-Fungible
Tokens (NFTs) that belongs to players, while the game rules
are decentralized, trusted, and transparent. To this end, the
player groups in traditional MMO and Web 3.0 games do not
seem to have a high degree of overlap at present, which may
lead to different network ecology. In this work, we leverage
Web 3.0 games to conduct preliminary studies on the future
society in metaverse.
* Lin Wang is the corresponding author (zoetuqi@foxmail.com).
In this work, we select Dark Forest1 (DF), a Web 3.0 Real-
Time Strategy (RTS) game, as the study subject. DF is a
space-conquest MMO built on Gnosis Chain2, a Ethereum3-
compatible sidechain, with zero-knowledge cryptography.
Players start with a home planet and expand territory by
capturing new planets. For the connection between video
games and the social environment, Jasper Juul’s [3]research
has identified three frameworks: the game as goal orientation,
the game as experience, and the game as a social event.
Under this approach, we focus on the game’s goal setting, the
player’s positive experience, and the player’s winning strategy.
we collect In-game data that visualizes player behavior under
specific game rules, summarizing the sorts of player activity,
phase transitions, and tactical considerations within linear
time periods. Based on an understanding of game dynamics
through data analysis, we propose a dual social interpretation
of DF game design and player behavior.
The main contribution of this paper is to leverage Web 3.0
games to illustrate, through behavioral analysis, how individ-
uals balance resources between long-term goals and short-
term development at different stages of development in the
environment simulated by the game, and the strategies adopted
in the direction of individual development. We conclude that
human behavior has convergences across environments. The
remainder of this paper is organized as follows: We first
survey related work in Section II and introduce the DF game
in Section III. Afterward, we present the data processing
methodology in Section IV. We perform result analysis in
Section V. Section VI concludes this paper.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Social Studies on Online Games
Increased academic attention to video games has led to
the discussion of MMO games as a micro model for social
studies [4] [5]. The relationships between the gaming world
and the real world, both from the inside outward in the form
of effective action and from the outside inward in the form of
realistic representation, effectively engaged players in social
and cultural issues [6]. MMO games like the Second Life were
1https://zkga.me
2https://www.gnosischain.com/
3https://ethereum.org
978-1-6654-7189-3/22/$31.00 © 2022 IEEE20
22
 IE
EE
 2
4t
h 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l W
or
ks
ho
p 
on
 M
ul
tim
ed
ia
 S
ig
na
l P
ro
ce
ss
in
g 
(M
M
SP
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
71
89
-3
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
M
M
SP
55
36
2.
20
22
.9
94
95
51
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
viewed as the new frontier of human life, including issues of
gender, race, sex, money, conflict and antisocial behavior, the
construction of place and time, and the interplay of self and
group [7]. A series of studies of MMO games shows how
elements of gameplay may extend beyond the realm of the
game, bringing a better understanding of human dynamics.
For example, Woods argues that social-system simulation
games combine roles, rules, and other elements of gameplay
effectively to replicate existing social systems, placing the
participant “within” the experience in order to facilitate a
greater understanding of the dynamic forces that shape society
[8]. Ross et al. combine Williams mapping principle and
a modern theoretical account of human decision-making to
explore how a theory about individual interactions in well-
defined contexts (games) can explain collective behavior [9].
Guitton points out how the immersive virtual settings function
as new “spaces of life” [10]. Chen et al. conduct a social
organization study by viewing game worlds as ecosystems
consisting of evolving guilds and proving how guild life cycles
reflect game world characteristics [11]. Current literature
demonstrated a particularly valuable area of investigation.
However, most of the sample games were web2 products, and
we are facing the emergence of Web 3 social innovation in
the post-pandemic era. With the rise of blockchain technology,
the underlying design of Web3 games has changed, and it’s
natural to question how and to what extent a game connects
with its broader technocultural subjectivities.
B. Web 3.0 Games and zk-SNARK
Web 3.0 games are collective games built as decentralized
applications on the blockchain [12]. Blockchain games have
been developing since the debut of CryptoKitties4 in 2017.
Most developers and researchers of blockchain games priori-
tize the economy and rewards within the game, thus, digital
assets such as cryptocurrencies and NFTs has become the
major interest in Web 3.0 games. This has likewise led to the
majority of blockchain games being based on the Play-to-Earn
(P2E) economic model [13]. Unfortunately, the state-of-the-
art P2E games are all ponzi games. Also, there is few research
work on analyzing blockchain game player behavior from a
sociological perspective.
An important techniques to facilitate Web 3.0 games
is Zero-Knowledge Succinct Non-Interactive Argument of
Knowledge (zk-SNARK) [14]. It is a cryptographic proof that
allows one party to prove it possesses certain information
without revealing that information. In Web 3.0 games, zk-
SNARK become important since we don’t want to rely on any
centralized 3rd party to make judgement and smart contract
is transparent to the public. The DF game builds a zk-
SNARKs system that is efficient enough for MMO games
to use—making the fog of war gameplay possible, which
identifies the DF game from other blockchain games.
4https://www.cryptokitties.co/
III. INTRODUCTION TO DARK FOREST
The concept of dark forest was proposed in The Three-
Body Problem by Cixin Liu. In the book, dark forest refers
to the universe, where “Every civilization is a hunter carrying
shotgun.” [15].When players enter the universe for the first
time, they will be placed randomly on a different planet
with similar initial conditions. Players could start performing
different function calls, such as withdrawing artifacts and oc-
cupying the planet. Players could further explore the universe,
but before that, they need to place cursors to open a new
map. The exploration speed is dependent on the computational
power of the CPU. Exploring allow the player to capture
new planets, which could lead to more resource production.
In the DF game, the resource produced by planets is silver
and energy. The speed of resource production varies between
different planets. Therefore players will need to fight their
way toward high-efficiency planets. During the game round,
players’ performances are recorded and ranked. Top ranking
players will be awarded planet NFT when the round ends.
Scores could be earned by extracting silver, finding artifacts,
and capturing planets. DF featured new gameplay compared
to other traditional cryptography games, the “fog of war”.
This means players can’t have information on all parts of the
map. They can only see the explored area. This is widely
used gameplay in traditional games such as StarCraft and
Sid Meier’s Civilization game series. However, it is not easy
to implement this gameplay in a cryptography game since
all the block data are open for reading on the blockchain.
The game achieved this through the zero-proofing method
zkSNARKs[2]. With zkSNARKs, the client could hold part
of the data private while still allowing others to verify the
credibility of the data. In this case, the planet’s locations are
kept secret from other players.
DF is open-sourced for any player who is interested in
developing plugins. All the players in the game are real human
beings. So far, the game has hosted eight official rounds with
slightly different game rules and winning conditions. Here we
take v0.6 round 5 as our main focus of the investigation.
IV. DATA PROCESSING
This section describes our specific process of data collec-
tion, preprocessing, and feature extraction. It also covers how
to apply K-means, an unsupervised clustering algorithm, to
capture groups of players with similar patterns.
A. Data Collection and Preprocessing
All the data used to collect players’ behavior are collected
from the gnosis blockchain RFC endpoints. By sending re-
quests to the endpoint block by block, the endpoint will return
the data of that block on the gnosis chain. Since the Dark
Forest game is not the only one using the Gnosis chain, there
are many transactions and blocks that we do not need. We
reject them by trying to decode the data using the game data
structure. If the decoding process fails, then the current block
is not a valid Dark Forest block. Because of the network
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
instabilities, we specify a range of block addresses (250) to
fetch at a time.
{
"to": "0x5da117b8aB8b739346F5EdC166789E5aFb1a7145",
"from": "0x0C6B6A25f2bf0d15fB9CfF9BE80d28F69964655E",
"time": 1645243375,
"name": "transferOwnership",
"params": [
{
"name": "_newOwner",
"value": "0x5d99805ca2867f22a318c4e6b0dc5c0eac4
57386",
"type": "address"
}
],
"blockNumber": 20713470,
"type": 2,
"value": {
"type": "BigNumber",
"hex": "0x00"
},
"gasPrice": {
"type": "BigNumber",
"hex": "0x77359400"
},
"gasUsed": {
"type": "BigNumber",
"hex": "0x038359"
}
}
The data fetched from the Gnosis Chain is extracted into
a JSON structure, “to” field represents the receiver address
of the current transaction, “from” field represents the sender
address of the current transaction, “time” field represents the
timestamp of the current transaction, “name” field represented
the operation performed by current transaction, “param”,
“type” and “value” field represented some additional infor-
mation attached to the performed operation, “blockNumber”
field represented the block height of the block containing
the current transaction, “gasPrice” and “gasUsed” are the gas
price and gas used in the current transaction.
We preprocess the data from the time dimension to analyze
it from a macro perspective in two directions: the overall trend
of the whole season and the player behavior of subgroups.
In order to construct the time series, we need to preprocess
and clean the extracted data. From the blockchain, we get
the functions called at a certain address at a certain time
and their parameters, and afterward, we write them to the
dictionary according to each operation. We get a data structure
like: player address: ”time, name of function called, function-
related parameters”.
B. Feature Extraction
First, we extract the address of each person’s function call
from the contract and rearrange it in the form of a time series
to construct a time series. For example, the address 0x000...7A
called initializePlayer at t0 for initialization and move for one
move, and another move at t1. We record the operations at this
address using the new format:0x00...cF7A: [ initializePlayer 1,
move 1], [move 1]. Here each time period (t1, t2, t3...) will
be divided into a day, an hour, and a half-hour as needed.
And on top of this, we will perform two orientations, the
time series orientation, and the player cluster orientation. In
the time series orientation, the number of operations in each
time period will be extracted as needed. In the player cluster
orientation, in addition to keeping the previous data processing
results, the data on all corresponding positions of a single
player will be accumulated. We cluster the parameters of some
functions separately. For example, there are three types of
upgrades, address 0x000...7A occurs five calls, which means
that there is data for five kinds of parameters of upgrade. The
kinds 0, 1, and 2 were called 0, 0, and 1 time respectively
in time period 1, and 2, 1, and 1 time respectively in time
period 2. Then the data will be processed as: 0x00...cF7A:
[0,0,1],[2,1,1]. On this basis, similarly, the data are processed
towards two orientations. In the time series orientation, the
data of the corresponding positions of all players will be
accumulated and finally obtained in the form of [[kind 0 in
t1, kind 1 in t1, kind 2 in t1], [kind 0 in t2, kind 1 in t2, kind
2 in t2], [...], ...] of the data structure. In the player cluster
orientation, the data on all corresponding positions of a single
player are accumulated to obtain the data structure shaped as
0x00...cF7A: [number of kinds 0, number of kinds 1, number
of kinds 2].
C. Clustering
We performed a varying number of clusters in each clus-
tering using the K-means algorithm [16] and iterate over the
number of iterations and the number of clusters. elbow method
and contour coefficients are used in combination to determine
the k values, with different parameters taking the best values
in different data divisions.
V. RESULT ANALYSIS
A. Player Function Call Frequency
It is more accurate to depict the portrait of player by using
the function call, which records all of the player’s actions
in the game. As Fig. 1 shown, we categorized eight function
calls with the highest amounts into three graphs. The first one
is move, the second one is planet-related function calls, and
the last one is artifact-related function calls. The amount of
function move called is much larger than any other function
calls. Especially at the beginning of the round, this is because
it is the most important function of all. It is responsible
for all logistics-related actions, such as moving silver and
transferring other resources. Occupying a planet also requires
the player to move to it. However, a strong correlation between
function move and function upgradePlanet could be observed.
Correlations could also be found between invadePlanet and
capturePlanet, withdrawArtifact and activateArtifact.
To simplify the analysis, we collected 8 most representative
player behaviors and categorized them into 3 graphs. The top
one plots the amount of move function called every day during
the round, it is separated into an individual graph because it
has a much larger calling frequency than all other function
calls combined (pie chart) as Fig. 1 shows. The second graph
shows player’s behaviors towards planets, and the third one
is about player’s behaviors towards artifacts.
We divided the round mainly into 3 stages. Stage 1: 2022-
02-19 to 2022-02-21, this is the first two days of round 5.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1. Amount of Functions Called
Players are all busy exploring the surrounding environment.
However, since removing the fog of war requires the CPU to
mine a block, players’ gameplay options are limited. We can
see a significant peak of upgradePlanet. There is also a minor
peak in prospectPlanet. Stage 2: 2022-02-22 to 2022-02-26,
in this stage, the amount of move and upgradePlanet function
call started to decrease in a steady rate, while capturePlanet
and invadePlanet gradually increase. A more violence uni-
verse start to emerge. Stage 3: 2022-02-26 to 2022-02-28,
in the last 2 days of the round, capturePlanet behavior
dramatically increased to it’s peak point. Accompanied by the
lowest point of prospectPlanet and upgradePlanet. We could
deduce that due to the planet’s limited resource production
rate, players are forced to fight with each other instead of
keep on upgrading owned planets in order to gain more points.
Since capturing planets now award the highest points among
three ways of getting points.These observations match some
of the ideas of the dark forest theory. Since no communication
could be established between players, and furthermore, there
are no rules that promote corporation between players. The
only option left is to invade other players’ planets and get
more points.
According to players’ activity portrait, the main factor
propelling the development of the DF game is the expansion
of space. This process is very similar to capital expansion
in the early days of liberal capitalism: capital constantly
plunders resources from the outside for its own development.
A timeworn Western Rationality theme has been updated for
the web 3.0 era in the DF space expedition plan. We can see
the shadow of Robinson Crusoe, but the design of DF does not
praise the greatness of expansion while highlights the survival
dilemma of late capitalist society. In DF, players must actively
colonize the vast starry sky because if they don’t, they will be
sucked up. The unknown starry sky waiting to be conquered is
neither dreamy nor promising. DF mirrors the present social
reality based on the degree of game goal orientation displayed
by player’s activities.
B. Winning Strategies
Typically, winning moments in games are associated with
positive experiences. In this subsection, we explore the types
of behaviors that make up a positive experience in DF by
analyzing players’ winning strategies. In the game, a player’s
power level and goals are quantified as scores, so we record
the number of calls per hour to three functions, which directly
related to obtaining scores, forming a time series to analyze
the strategies adopted by players in terms of how they score,
and how the strategies change over time. For the substance
of function, prospectPlanet is the act of attacking others,
invadePlanet is the act of probabilistic treasure hunting, and
withdrawSilver consumes base resources. The first two func-
tions need to consume energy and can indirectly improve the
efficiency of accumulating resources. The third one requires
the consumption of silver, which can be used to enhance
player attributes and thus improve the efficiency of resource
acquisition.
Fig. 2. Time Series of Three Operations
As shown in the Fig. 2, the curves of the four types above
correspond to: withdrawSilver, prospectPlanet, invadePlanet,
and the sum of the three. From an overall perspective, the
number of operations related to obtaining scores is low in
Stage 1 and gradually increases. From the perspective of a
single function, the number of withdraw silver is small in the
early stages, increasing slowly over time, and growing rapidly
in the last stage. ProspectPlanet tends to be flat and decreasing
slowly over time, accounting for a higher percentage of the
early stages than the other two, with an abrupt increase at
the end. InvadePlanet is low at first, increasing slightly faster
over time than withdrawSilver. The invadePlanet is low in
the early stage, increases over time at a slightly faster rate
than withdrawSilver, and significantly in the late stage but
decreases at last. The data reveals a typical in-game battle
cycle. In the early stages, the player’s resources are mainly
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
used for development. Player prefer peaceful expansion rather
than consuming resources to engage in offensive and defensive
battles with others. ProspectPlanet, as a probable byproduct
of expansion, occurs more frequently than the other two, but
most players do not focus on this in the early stages with
the goal of scoring directly. As players develop, they also
begin to have a surplus of resources and begin to clash with
each other, and the benefits of winning battles are greater
than maintaining Peace. In this case, players start to score
points by consuming resources and invading others. When
players’ development reaches the limit, and the number of
artifacts they can acquire decreases, players engage in large-
scale battles. When the group faces the decision to rank or
even survive or not based on resource reserves, there will be a
lot of fighting in the later stages as the time point approaches.
At the end, all parties will stop depleting each other’s resource
reserves and turn all available resources into real benefits.
Furthermore, we can see that between directly consuming
resources to gain points and indirectly consuming resources
to improve one’s score and resources, most people choose the
latter. This will be demonstrated in the next section.
C. Individual Enhancement Strategies
For survival and development, players need to adopt strate-
gies for strength enhancement. In this subsection, we analyze
the strategies adopted by players to enhance their attributes.
1) Two Types of Enhancements: There are two ways for
players to enhance themselves: activating artifacts and upgrad-
ing planets. The former is probabilistic and random, the latter
is easy and controllable. Here we select activateArtifact and
upgradePlanet for preliminary analysis.
Fig. 3. Time Series of Ways to Enhance
As shown in Fig. 3, the number of activated artifacts is
much smaller than the number of upgrades given to planets.
For the individual functions, activateAartifact has a tendency
to rise and then fall, with an overall more moderate. The
number of upgradePlanet, on the other hand, increases rapidly
at the beginning and then decreases slowly. Obviously, ac-
quiring artifacts is much harder than planet upgrades. In this
case, players naturally tend to choose a more reliable and
simple way rather than a gambling strategy. At the same
time, even if artifact is found, players cannot protect it in
the absence of power. In addition, higher attributes leads
to more efficient the player can find artifacts. In Stage 1,
everyone starts from 0 and needs to accumulate resources.
In Stage 2, after obtaining enough resources, most players
choose to upgrade planet while some players discover artifacts
and equip them. After a period of time, the resources needed
to upgrade planets increase, and with limited resources, it
is necessary to make trade-offs and upgrade planets with
stronger attributes. At the same time, as players continue to
develop, the total number of times a planet can be upgraded
decreases. Thus, we can summarize the player’s enhancement
strategies. Players naturally tend to develop in a steady and
simple way rather than adopting a gambling style strategy.
They choose to boost when they have sufficient resources
and high investment returns or low investment costs, and start
making trade-offs when they have limited resources or high
investment costs or relatively low returns. In order to further
examine the player’s investment strategy, we will analyze the
simple and controllable investment method, that is, the call to
upgradePlanet.
2) Upgrade Planet: Players have three directions to choose
from when calling upgradePlanet:defence, range, and speed.
Defence reduces the power of the attack received, range
represents the range at which the planet emits energy, and
speed affects how fast the planet sends energy. In Fig. 4, the
four sequences are the time series curves of defence, range,
speed, and the accumulation of the three.
Fig. 4. Time Series of Three Kinds of Upgrading
In terms of total number, the number of range is much
larger than the other two, and the count ratio of the three
upgrades is 1:5:2 in the whole game. From the perspective
of time division, in Stage 1, after a short accumulation of
resources at the beginning, players massively perform range
upgrades, and the number of upgrades decreases over time.
In Stage 2, the total number of upgrades is much less than in
stage1 and continues to decline, but the trend of decreasing
speed and defence is much less pronounced than range. At
the intersection of Stage 2 and Stage 3, there is a clear
pickup in range and then a decline. Defence and speed
follow a similar pattern, but level off. Data trends suggest
that in the early expansions, there are few crossfires between
players and players, and most are in independent zones when
reaching new planet is more important for development. After
a period of time, resources were diverted to the development
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
of dedenxe and speed. In the late stages, players focus on
planet range which has strategic significance. Finally, all
upgrades are reduced because the silver used for upgrades is
also consumed for scores. Most people have completed their
strategic development, and it does not make sense to upgrade
more planets. More data allow us to zoom in and observe the
strategy choices of individual. Fig. 5 shows the clustering of
players’ upgrade directions in three-dimensional space. Each
point in the graph represents a player, and the coordinates of
the x, y, and z axes represent the number of player upgrades
in defense, range, and speed, respectively. The distribution
of the three types of players in range is similar, the number
of defence and speed of one type of players is similar, and
this type of players accounts for the most; in the other two
clusters, one type focuses on defence and one type focuses
on speed. the number of players focusing on defence is more
than the other type, but fewer players in the other category
have upgrades on speed.
Fig. 5. Clustering of Three Kinds of Upgrading
The above two aspects of the analysis of players’ en-
hancement strategies suggest: 1) The range that power en-
ergy can reach is the most important in strategic decisions:
when developing, range determines the speed and breadth of
expansion; when generating rivalries, range determines the
distance between attack and defense. 2) Defensive power is
more generally welcomed as a passive ability that takes effect
immediately, as opposed to speed, which is more aggressive
and prone to armament competition. 3) Players’ overall deci-
sions change over time and as the situation changes: in the
early expansion, players are generally weak, there are fewer
conflicts, more overall upgrades, and more range upgrades;
after the firefight other attributes increase in importance, the
total number of upgrades and range upgrades decrease; in
large-scale long-distance combat and resource transfers, the
number of upgrades and range upgrades again The number of
upgrades and range upgrades are again increased when large-
scale long-range combat and resource transfer are in progress;
when the priority of final realization is the highest, there is
no value in spending on combat ability upgrading.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we examine the social connection between
DF and its technocultural subjectivities. Data analysis shows
that most players in DF tend to develop peacefully in the
early stage, fight for resources in the middle stage, and focus
on converting game assets into monetary gains in the final
stage. In the DF game, the layout of the environment mimics
the growth of capitalism and the profit-related behaviors
demonstrate how the blockchain game is more realistically
based.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by GAFA Academic Improvement
Plan (Project 21XSB37).
REFERENCES
[1] H. Duan, J. Li, S. Fan, Z. Lin, X. Wu, and W. Cai, “Metaverse for
social good: A university campus prototype,” in 29th ACM International
Conference on Multimedia (ACM MM 2021), Chengdu, China, October
20-24, 2021.
[2] T. Min, H. Wang, Y. Guo, and W. Cai, “Blockchain games: A survey,”
in IEEE Conference on Games (CoG 2019), London, United Kingdom,
Aug 20-23.
[3] J. Juul, A casual revolution: Reinventing video games and their players.
MIT press, 2010.
[4] M. Daniel and C. Garry, Video games as culture: considering the role
and importance of video games in contemporary society. Routledge,
2018.
[5] J. Corliss, “Introduction: The social science study of video games,”
Games and Culture, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 3–16, 2011.
[6] A. R. Galloway, “Social realism in gaming,” Game studies, vol. 4, no. 1,
p. 2004, 2004.
[7] T. Boellstorff, “Coming of age in second life,” in Coming of Age in
Second Life, Princeton University Press, 2015.
[8] S. Woods, “Loading the dice: The challenge of serious videogames,”
Game Studies, vol. 4, no. 1, p. 207, 2004.
[9] T. L. Ross and L. B. Collister, “A social scientific framework for social
systems in online video games: Building a better looking for raid loot
system in world of warcraft,” Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 36,
pp. 1–12, 2014.
[10] M. J. Guitton, “Living in the hutt space: Immersive process in the
star wars role-play community of second life,” Computers in Human
Behavior, vol. 28, no. 5, pp. 1681–1691, 2012.
[11] C.-H. Chen, C.-T. Sun, and J.-l. Hsieh, “Player guild dynamics and
evolution in massively multiplayer online games,” Cyberpsychology
behavior : the impact of the Internet, multimedia and virtual reality
on behavior and society, vol. 11, pp. 293–301, 07 2008.
[12] W. Cai, Z. Wang, J. B. Ernst, Z. Hong, C. Feng, and V. C. M. Le-
ung, “Decentralized applications: The blockchain-empowered software
system,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 53019–53033, 2018.
[13] Y. Jiang, T. Min, S. Fan, R. Tao, and W. Cai, “Towards understanding
player behavior in blockchain games: A case study of aavegotchi,” in
Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on the Foundations
of Digital Games, FDG ’22, (New York, NY, USA), Association for
Computing Machinery, 2022.
[14] T. Chen, H. Lu, T. Kunpittaya, and A. Luo, “A review of zk-snarks,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.06877, 2022.
[15] C. Liu and K. Liu, The three-body problem. Head of Zeus, 2016.
[16] D. Steinley, “K-means clustering: a half-century synthesis,” British
Journal of Mathematical and Statistical Psychology, vol. 59, no. 1,
pp. 1–34, 2006.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.