MetaSyCar: A System for Metabolic Syndrome Control and Caring
MetaSyCar: A System for Metabolic Syndrome Control and Caring 
Mohammad Moradi, Morteza Moradi 
Young Researchers and Elite Club, Qazvin Branch 
 Islamic Azad University 
Qazvin, Iran 
{Moradi.c85|mort.moradi}@gmail.com 
Amjad Anvari-Moghaddam 
Department of Energy Technology 
 Aalborg University  
9220 Aalborg East, Denmark
aam@et.aau.dk
Abstract— Nowadays, metabolic diseases are of most common 
health challenges of individuals in different communities that 
impose significant costs on governments and healthcare 
systems. In this regard, continuous monitoring of patients and 
their relatives, collecting real world data and preventive 
education are important issues that impose high costs and 
implementation-related problems. Within the recent years, the 
advent of new technological advancements, including feature-
rich smartphones, location-based technologies, Internet of 
Things and wearables as well as new computing concepts, e.g. 
crowd computing, put forward new opportunities. However, a 
remarkable number of efforts still rely on traditional, and 
relatively less-efficient, approaches. In order to fill this gap in 
the context of metabolic disease research and performing the 
aforementioned tasks in the form of an integrated system, in 
this paper a system for Metabolic Syndrome Control and 
caring (MetaSyCar) is introduced. The major benefit of the 
proposed system is to provide a comprehensive and 
multifaceted monitoring framework in order to track the 
patients' behaviors, conditions and health indices. Moreover, 
the system interactivity facilitates the experts' interventions 
and supervisory considerations.  In the paper, the underlying 
foundations, conceptual architecture and workflow of the 
MetaSyCar are explained. 
Keywords- Internet of Things; Crowdsourcing; Location-
based Service; Gamification; Healthcare Management; 
Metabolic Disease. 
I. INTRODUCTION
Due to risky lifestyle of many individuals in different 
communities around the world, nowadays metabolic 
diseases have become more common than any time before. 
From managerial perspective, dealing with such diseases 
and their consequences imposes tremendous costs on 
governments and healthcare systems [1]. In this regard, a 
great body of the literature is devoted to research on curing 
and preventing such diseases, including works done in [2]-
[3]. Nonetheless, important tasks of continuous monitoring 
of patients and those who are at high risk of catching 
metabolic syndrome, collecting real-world data and 
evidences from patients and other individuals, and 
preventive education in order to control the disease, are still 
difficult and costly to tackle. Further, integrating such 
processes into a specific workflow may be regarded as an 
impossible mission, especially when it comes to relying on 
traditional approaches. With respect to the technological 
advancements, some unprecedented opportunities have been 
emerged. From individuals' front, a remarkable number of 
people around the world have equipped with mobile sensors 
and applications toolkit such as smartphones. On the other 
side, flourishing the concept of Internet of Things (IoT) [4]
and development of wearables, takes the possibilities to a 
new level. Thanks to the mentioned achievements, many 
research works have been done in the context of healthcare 
management, including works done in [5]-[7]. Moreover, 
leveraging collective human intelligence, in the form of 
crowdsourcing and human computation, has opened a new 
window to handle healthcare issues in a more efficient and 
accurate way [8]-[9]. 
Inspiring from the mentioned ideas and concepts, in this 
paper an integrated multi-purpose system for managing 
metabolic disease-related issues is introduced. The 
framework is specifically aimed at monitoring patients’ 
behaviors and lifestyles and presenting them general and 
specific instructions and guides while providing users with a 
game-like experience. Moreover, users will participate in 
data collection process in an implicit manner. The main 
motivation behind the proposed system is to provide an 
integrated framework to both monitor patients' conditions 
and lifestyle (possibly in real time) and facilitate medical 
experts' intervention and supervisory considerations in an 
(semi) interactive manner. Moreover, since the system takes 
benefits of current popular technological advancements, e.g. 
smart gadgets and wearables, the adoption process by the 
users, i.e. patients, can be less challenging and more 
efficient.  
The authors believe that taking advantages of systems 
similar to Metabolic Syndrome Control and caring system 
(MetaSyCar), in addition to encourage individuals to 
participate in a collaborative healthcare activity, can 
drastically reduce overhead costs of further managerial tasks 
to deal with metabolic diseases.  
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: the background 
and motivation are studied in the section 2. In section 3 a 
brief overview of the system is presented. To provide more 
information on how the system operates, in section 4 the 
workflow of the MetaSyCar is overviewed. The conceptual 
architecture of the system and its different components are 
described in detail in section 5. Finally, the future works and 
possible extensions of the project are introduced in section 6. 
183
2018 IEEE Confs on Internet of Things, Green Computing and Communications, Cyber, Physical and Social Computing,
Smart Data, Blockchain, Computer and Information Technology, Congress on Cybermatics
978-1-5386-7975-3/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/Cybermatics_2018.2018.00061
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:47:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
II. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION
From a merely technical point of view, the rationale 
behind the concept of crowdsourcing [10] was outsourcing 
difficult tasks that machines could not handle to a large 
group of people. In other words, the major benefit of 
crowdsourcing was leveraging humans’ intelligence and 
cognitive ability. However, due to its numerous applications 
and facilities, the original concept has been extended for 
leveraging other abilities of humans to perform tasks such as 
data collection [11], ideation [12], etc. In this regard, 
crowdsourcing may be defined as a distributed approach to 
benefits from individuals’ cognitive abilities, knowledge 
and even their understandings. Following this widely-
accepted trend, researchers in the medical science and 
healthcare management reaped the benefits of such 
invaluable opportunity in different application areas 
([9], [13]). In fact, when it comes to dealing with human-
related issues, such as healthcare and wellbeing, relying on 
their experiences, knowledge and opinions could provide 
more insightful and accurate outcomes than what may be 
obtained from small-scale studies and in-lab experiments. 
On the other side, the efficiency of modern healthcare 
systems is strongly related to the amount and accuracy of 
data gathered from individuals and closer interaction with 
them. Doing so, leveraging smartphones as a fertile platform 
to interact with target users is known as working 
strategy [14]. Also, the data collection process has become 
easier and more efficient than any time before through 
leveraging IoT capabilities and facilities [15]. In this regard, 
wearables play an important role in order to acquire 
continuous life data [16]. 
Nonetheless, attracting individuals’ participation to take 
part in such activities is another challenging issue. Dealing 
with that, many studies have been conducted [17]-[18],
though, it seems that besides monetary incentives, taking 
advantages of gamification, i.e. purposeful games [19]-[20],
is a working strategy. Previous studies that followed this 
approach, specifically those conducted in the field of 
medical science [21]-[22], could be regarded as strong 
proofs for its efficiency. Inspiring from the aforementioned 
concepts, in this work we are presenting a comprehensive, 
integrated solution to address the following issues: 
Continuous monitoring of patients' behaviors and 
lifestyles to control and prevent metabolic diseases, 
Collecting data, evidences, experiences and other
patients-specific information to support in-lab 
experiments and studies, 
Facilitating the processes of preventive education 
and knowledge acquisition in a user-friendly 
manner, 
Establishing a social network-like platform to 
encourage users to participate in voluntarily 
process. 
Therefore, and based on popular concepts of 
crowdsourcing, gamification, location-based 
technologies [23] and with respect to the facilities IoT can 
provide, see e.g. [24]-[26], we introduce a hybrid system, 
MetaSyCar, to integrate and manage all the issues (goals) at 
once in a single platform. Last but not least, our notion of 
gamification in this work does not imply to a complete 
mobile game. Instead, it is only a means to provide an 
interesting and entertaining user experience to refresh the 
atmosphere of the mostly unpleasant healthcare-related 
workflows. 
III. SYSTEM OVERVIEW
In this section, different aspects and design 
considerations of the MetaSyCar will be discussed in 
details. As mentioned earlier, the system is designed to carry 
out three main goals of patients monitoring, data collection 
and healthcare education. Therefore, it could be considered 
from several perspectives. 
Since metabolic diseases are strongly related to daily 
lifestyle of individuals, an effective monitoring system 
should be designed in such a way that collects those data. 
Such data are of two main groups: 1) life data, such as blood 
pressure and heart beat rate that should be gathered by 
wearables, and, 2) expressive data, including those that 
individuals present about their lifestyle, living patterns, 
experiences, symptoms and so forth. To handle such data, a 
two-faceted data acquisition system is considered. First, a 
subsystem is in charge of collecting life data obtained by the 
wearables and smartphone of individuals. Second 
subsystem, according to the successful experiences such as 
PatientsLikeMe [26], is a niche social network in which 
users share their lifestyle and disease experiences, give 
themselves some related recommendations and so on. From 
another perspective, the MetaSyCar is, in fact, an expert 
crowdsourcing system that implicitly and through a social 
network-like platform provides opportunity to collect expert 
and individuals' data, ideas, knowledge, best practices and 
solutions. Finally, at the top of the architecture, an interface 
connects individuals to the system. Due to prevalence of 
smartphones among people, besides their useful features and 
sensors that come in handy for some purposes, the interface 
is designed in the form of a mobile application. To be more 
engaging, the application, in fact, provides users with a 
game-like experience through which they should perform 
the designated tasks and submit the results back to the 
system. 
Moreover, the users, based on their activities and 
submitted information will be provided by medical advices. 
Such advices are of two classes: those which generated by 
the system and those which prescribed by professional 
doctors that participate in the project.  
Totally, the MetaSyCar could be described as a: 
crowd computing platform 
special-interest social network 
medical advice system 
mobile application/game 
184
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:47:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Before delving into different aspects of the system and its 
architectural details, its general workflow will be explained 
in the following section. 
IV. WORKFLOW OF METASYCAR
In addition to everyone (within a city) who installs the 
application on his smartphones, the main users of the system 
are of known metabolic patients and their relatives that 
based on their medical records are invited to register in 
MetaSyCar. Just after registration, the users are asked to fill 
in a questionnaire on their health index; and based on the 
submitted information they will be classified in three 
groups: normal, risky and patient. Then, the group-specific 
instructions will be provided for them to follow. In fact, by 
installing the application, users participate in a gamified 
preventative healthcare process where they should follow 
the instructions and report their adherence to them. 
Moreover, to help users better track their activities and 
schedules, some facilities are provided such as reminder 
notifications and so on. Similar to regular games, users can 
gain scores and awards based on their functions and 
performance. Also, as the system is thought to be a type of 
social network, standard functionalities of such platforms 
including possibility to follow others and (up/down)voting 
others’ actions are provided. In fact, it would be considered 
as social incentives that could engage individuals to 
improve their performance. As mentioned earlier, one of the 
most important contributions of the MetaSyCar is to provide 
participants with individual-specific advices and 
prescriptions as a powerful means to control the diseases. In 
this regard, in addition to auto-generated instructions that 
are generated by a medical recommender system based on 
analysis of users’ behaviors and activities, some case-
specific recommendations that are presented by professional 
doctors and experts will be provided to the individuals (Fig. 
1.). To increase users’ knowledge and information about 
different aspects of metabolic diseases, several tasks and 
challenges will be presented to them. Just to name a few, 
occasional Q&As and quizzes may be mentioned. 
MetaSyCarExperts’ Advices
Cloud-based
Storage & Processing
Experts’ Advices
Medical Records
Figure.1. The schematic workflow of the MetaSyCar 
Moreover, facilities to acquire users’ experiences, 
viewpoints and ideas on different related topics in the form 
of game-like challenges are considered. 
Inspiring from popular challenges around the social web, 
the system (and authorized users) may introduce challenges. 
For example, a given challenge may invite others to do 
physical exercise in public parks for a week. Since 
participating in challenges can increase scores of users, their 
attendance to gyms and parks will be verified by location-
based controller embedded in the system. Users' conditions 
and health indices, also, will be continuously monitored by 
information acquired from wearables. As a step further, 
effects of different actions in different time and locations on 
users' conditions will be collected and analyzed. 
For example, walking in a polluted city area in the rush 
hour may probably affect users' heart beat rate or breathing. 
Collecting such data, i.e. crowdsensing, provides some 
invaluable information on environmental effectors on 
individuals' health. When aggregated and analyzed, such data 
can feed recommendation system to suggest safe paths to 
users based on their conditions. According to the 
aforementioned features, specifically those ones related to 
sensory data, the acquisition and management, the 
MetaSyCar is an appropriate solution for smart cities. 
However, its realization would be advantageous for current 
regular cities. 
V. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
The general conceptual architecture of the MetaSyCar is 
illustrated in Fig. 2. Based on this schematic representation, 
the system is composed on nine major components. 
Data Storage and Processing 
All the data in the system including interaction and 
crowdsourced data, user-generated content, as well as 
system-related log data, etc. are stored in this component. 
Such invaluable assets may be leveraged for system 
maintenance and management purposes. Specifically, 
mining the system-related data provide administrators with 
priceless insights on different aspects of the system. 
Moreover, analyzing user-related data could be used to feed 
recommender system with in-depth information on how 
individuals could be better helped by to the point 
recommendations. 
System Management 
As the heart of this complex system, this component is 
in charge of managing and synchronizing the cooperation of 
different parts of the system. To avoid any processing 
related issues due to overload imposed on this component; it 
is distributed over the system to manage different parts of 
the system separately. Nonetheless, a central unit is 
designed to integrate the distributed managerial tasks. 
185
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:47:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Users Management 
Besides processing and management of users-related 
procedures, this component undertakes crucial task of 
connecting infrastructural components with other 
operational ones and system’s interface. Specifically, 
managing users, their interactions and activities within the 
system are major contributions of the component. From 
another point of view, monitoring of individuals’ behaviors, 
adherence to the instructions and totally their lifestyles are 
performed in this component. Moreover, this component 
provides supervision and crowdsourcing components with 
some useful information. Analyzing users’ activities and 
performance will produce required information for 
supervision component to make decision on how an 
individual should be instructed. Also, crowdsourcing 
component needs to have some basic information on users’ 
working habits, their levels of knowledge, participation 
tendency, etc. 
Supervision  
This component especially handles managerial tasks and 
processes. In fact, based on the information provided by 
other related parts of the system, including users’ feedbacks, 
individuals will be recommended by some instructions and 
advices. Such instructions are of two main groups: 1) 
General instructions, and 2) Individual-specific instructions. 
The former on its own is divided in two classes: global 
instructions and group-level ones. Such instructions and 
guidelines originate from two sources. Generally, a 
recommender system is employed to generate some basic
suggestions. However, since there are more complicated 
cases that need to be investigated by professional doctors, a 
group of authorized experts continuously participate in the 
process of diagnosis and prescription. Moreover, taking 
advantage of expert crowdsourcing, there is a 
crowdsourcing sub-system for medical experts to analyze 
individuals’ conditions and discussing on prescriptions in 
order to providing most effective recommendations. 
Social Network  
As mentioned earlier, to benefit from social nature of the 
MetaSyCar, a rational choice is building the system on top 
of a social network infrastructure. In this regard, such a 
component plays a key role in the system’s architecture. 
However, this social network is transparent from users’ 
point of view; its managerial benefits are considered. 
Specifically, such infrastructure is in charge of organizing 
relationships and interactions among users. Moreover, 
investigation of social networking data will reveal 
influential factors that caused relationships between certain 
individuals. Doing so, underlying patterns related to social 
and psychological reasons of diseases and their effects on 
patients’ behaviors and lifestyles may be inferred. Further, 
as a city-wide niche social network can be regarded as a 
small-scale city, the obtained knowledge on individuals’ 
quality of lifestyles and behaviors from the virtual one may 
be leveraged to implement healthcare policies and programs 
in real world. 
Crowdsourcing Component 
To leverage individuals’ intelligence and knowledge, the 
MetaSyCar equipped with an embedded crowdsourcing 
platform. This platform collects users’ data, ideas and 
experiences in the form of quizzes, Q&As and so on. To 
handle crowdsourcing related processes such as task 
organization, results validation and integration, this 
component receives individuals’ information and their 
submitted results from users management and  application 
component, respectively. Also, to improve the efficacy of 
the crowdsourcing process, selecting the most appropriate 
users, i.e. crowd workers/volunteers, is an influential 
decision. In this regard, a task recommendation engine is 
employed to match the tasks and individuals based on the 
features of tasks and users’ performance history.
Sensory Data Acquisition 
To acquire and manage sensory data, a specific 
component is introduced. There are two main types of data 
that the component deals with: 1) environmental data which 
is gathered by sensors from different places, e.g. parks, 
streets, etc. 2) Personal life data that is obtained from 
wearables. 
Data Fusion 
Since there are different types of data in the system to be 
used by internal component, they should be integrated and 
normalized. Doing so, a data fusion component is 
considered. In fact, heterogeneous input data will be turned 
into meaningful information blocks after being processed in 
this component. 
Mobile Application Component 
As the front-end of the MetaSyCar, this component is in 
a close relationship with other components, namely 
crowdsourcing, social network and user management. Two 
main facilities that this component provides for users to 
interact with the system are a game-like application and a 
forum. In fact, participation of individuals in the game and 
forum considered as a means for collecting their 
commonsense knowledge, experiences, etc. that will be used 
to monitor their behaviors and lifestyles. In addition to the 
system-suggested advices and guidelines, and to make the 
MetaSyCar more interactive and personalized, facilities for 
requesting customized recommendations as well as detailed 
personal assessment are provided. Also, to provide location-
aware services, as mentioned previously, the application is 
prepared with common location manager facilities. 
186
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:47:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure.2. The conceptual architecture of the system
VI. FUTURE WORKS
When it comes to deal with personal healthcare data, 
privacy concerns will arise and more strict considerations 
are needed. In this regard, a comprehensive privacy policy 
has been regarded for protection of the MetaSyCar against 
any disclosure of medical information of individuals. 
Thanks to the features of the MetaSyCar, to make it 
more efficient and applicable, some ideas are considered to 
expand its functionalities. These future works are as 
follows: 
Connecting to Smart home: To take full advantages of 
sensory information in order to provide users with more 
accurate recommendations and caring services, 
connecting the MetaSyCar to the smart homes may be 
silver bullet. Doing so, almost all of the users' behaviors 
and actions that may affect their health can be 
monitored and analyzed. 
Location-aware search engine: Leveraging IoT 
capabilities and crowdsensing process, a large amount 
of environmental data including effectors on 
individuals' health conditions can be obtained. As a side 
service and based on users' experience and 
professionals' suggestions, a city-wide location-aware 
search engine can be designed through which 
individuals can look for, e.g. healthy paths within the 
city. 
Real-time Interaction: In some cases, there are a 
strong need to real-time and in-the-moment interaction 
and responses which is not possible in the early stages 
of the MetaSyCar. Doing so, the number of users and 
volunteers, both professional doctors and individuals 
should be reached to a reliable threshold. In this regard, 
some incentive-based strategies are under examination 
to attract participations of the community. 
Becoming Intelligent: It is expected that by leveraging 
users participation in generating content, sharing 
experience, self-reporting, crowdsensing, etc. as well as 
gold standard provided by experts, the system becomes 
more intelligent. Such a feature makes the system 
capable of providing more efficient suggestions and 
decisions. 
VII. CONCLUSION
Due to emergence to deal with prevalence of metabolic 
diseases, a monitoring and caring system, entitled 
MetaSyCar, was introduced in this study. The system took 
benefit of humans’ participation and intelligence as well as 
IoT capabilities to collect their experiences, ideas, 
suggestions and environmental data in order to deal with the 
diseases as well as providing them with more efficient 
instructions. To attract participation of individuals, the 
MetaSyCar was designed as a mobile application and 
provided users with a game-like experience. Moreover, it 
was designed in such a way that both professionals and 
individuals can be voluntarily participating in the processes 
in the form of (expert) crowdsourcing.. 
REFERENCES
[1] G. Ricci, et al., "Metabolic syndrome, hypertension, and 
nervous system injury: Epidemiological correlates," Clinical 
and experimental hypertension, vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 8-16, 
January 2017. 
[2] F. Saffari, et al., "Metabolic syndrome in a sample of the 6-to 
16-year-old overweight or obese pediatric population: a
comparison of two definitions," Ther. Clin. Risk Manag., vol. 
8, no. 55, Februray 2012.
[3] K. Shigehara, et al., "Effects of testosterone replacement 
therapy on metabolic syndrome among Japanese hypogonadal 
men: A subanalysis of a prospective randomised controlled 
trial (EARTH study)," Andrologia, vol. 50, no. 1, Februray 
2018.
[4] B. Shakerighadi, et al., “Internet of Things for Modern 
Energy Systems: State-of-the-Art, Challenges, and Open 
Issues,” Energies, vol. 11, no. 5, p. 1252, May 2018.
[5] A. M. Rahmani, et al., "Exploiting smart e-health gateways at 
the edge of healthcare internet-of-things: a fog computing 
approach," Future Generation Computer Systems, vol. 78, pp. 
641-658, January 2018.  
[6] M. Maksimović, V. Vujović and B. Periśić, "A custom 
Internet of Things healthcare system," Proc. of 10th Iberian 
Conference on Information Systems and Technologies 
(CISTI), IEEE, pp. 1-6, 2015.
187
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:47:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[7] G. Mokhtari, et.al., “Multi-Residential Activity Labelling in 
Smart Homes with Wearable Tags Using BLE Technology,” 
Sensors, vol. 18, no. 3, p. 908, Mar. 2018.
[8] Y. J. Lee, et al., "The application of crowdsourcing 
approaches to cancer research: a systematic review," Cancer 
medicine, September 2017. DOI: 10.1002/cam4.1165.
[9] P. McCartney, "Crowdsourcing in healthcare," MCN: The 
American Journal of Maternal/Child Nursing, vol. 38, no. 6, 
p. 392, November 2013.
[10] D. C. Brabham, "Crowdsourcing as a model for problem 
solving: An introduction and cases," Convergence, vol. 14, 
no. 1, pp. 75-90, Februrary 2008.
[11] G. A. Sigurdsson, et al., "Hollywood in homes: 
Crowdsourcing data collection for activity understanding,"
Proc. of European Conference on Computer Vision, Springer, 
pp. 510-526, 2016.
[12] B. Schemmann,et al., "Crowdsourcing ideas: Involving 
ordinary users in the ideation phase of new product 
development," Research Policy, vol. 45, no. 6. pp. 1145-1154, 
July 2016.
[13] Z. Meisel,et al. "Crowdsourcing healthcare costs: 
Opportunities and challenges for patient centered price 
transparency," Healthcare, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 3-5, March 2016.
[14] X. Wu, et al., "Analysis of smartphone user mobility traces 
for opportunistic data collection in wireless sensor 
networks," PMC, vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 881-891, December 2013.
[15] R. Piyare, et al., "Towards internet of things (iots): Integration 
of wireless sensor network to cloud services for data 
collection and sharing," arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1310.2095, October 2013.
[16] M. Schickler,et al., "Using wearables in the context of chronic 
disorders: Results of a pre-study," Proc. of IEEE 29th 
International Symposium on  Computer-Based Medical 
Systems (CBMS), , pp. 68-69, 2016.
[17] X. Zhang, et al. "Free market of crowdsourcing: Incentive 
mechanism design for mobile sensing," IEEE Trans. Parallel 
Distrib. Syst., vol. 25, no. 12, pp. 3190-3200, December 
2014.
[18] D. Yang,et al. "Crowdsourcing to smartphones: Incentive 
mechanism design for mobile phone sensing," Proc. of the 
18th annual international conference on Mobile computing 
and networking, pp. 173-184, 2012.
[19] A. L'Heureux, et al., "A Gamification Framework for Sensor 
Data Analytics," Proc. of IEEE International Congress on 
Internet of Things (ICIOT), pp. 74-81, 2017.
[20] F. Jalili, M. Moradi and M.R. Keyvanpour, "CollegeCare: A 
location-based game for university maintenance," Proc. of 5th 
Iranian Joint Congress on Fuzzy and Intelligent Systems 
(CFIS), IEEE,  pp. 75-80, 2017.
[21] J. M. Font, A. Hedvall and E. Svensson, "Towards Teaching 
Maternal Healthcare and Nutrition in Rural Ethiopia through a 
Serious Game," Extended Abstracts Publication of the Annual 
Symposium on Computer-Human Interaction in Play, ACM, 
pp. 187-193, 2017.
[22] Z. Lv, et al., "Serious game based personalized healthcare 
system for dysphonia rehabilitation," PMC, vol. 41, pp. 504-
519, October 2017.
[23] B. Rao and L. Minakakis, "Evolution of mobile location-
based services," Communications of the ACM, vol. 46, no. 
12, pp. 61-65, December 2003.
[24] N. G. Hallfors, et al., "Graphene oxide—Nylon ECG sensors 
for wearable IoT healthcare," Proc. of Sensors Networks 
Smart and Emerging Technologies (SENSET), IEEE, pp. 1-4, 
2017. 
[25] S. Kim, and S. Kim, "User preference for an IoT healthcare 
application for lifestyle disease management,"
Telecommunications Policy, Volume 42, Issue 4, pp. 304-
314, May 2018.
[26] M. Haghi, K. Thurow and R. Stoll, "Wearable devices in 
medical internet of things: scientific research and
commercially available devices," Healthcare informatics 
research, Vol. 23, No. 1, pp. 4-15, January 2017.
[27] C. Smith,et al. "PatientsLikeMe: Consumer health vocabulary 
as a folksonomy," Proc. of American Medical Informatics 
Association annual symposium, AMIA, p. 682, 2008.
   
188
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:47:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.