Enabling On-Demand Decentralized IoT Collectability Marketplace using Blockchain and Crowdsensing
Enabling On-Demand Decentralized IoT Collectability Marketplace
using Blockchain and Crowdsensing
Duc-Duy Nguyen
Insight Centre for Data Analytics,
Data Science Institute, National University of Ireland
Galway, Ireland
ducduy.nguyen@insight-centre.org
Muhammad Intizar Ali
Insight Centre for Data Analytics
Data Science Institute, National University of Ireland
Galway, Ireland
ali.intizar@insight-cetnre.org
Abstract—The Internet of Thing (IoT) is generating an
unprecedented volume of data, facilitating the rise of the Data
Economy. Under this ecosystem, the IoT data marketplace
(IDM) provides an online platform for IoT data trading. Most
current IDM solutions are centralized, serving as an interme-
diary between the data provider and consumer. They support
selling and buying data collections (e.g. pre-collected data sets
and data streams). However, as these data collections are
historically collected without having any priory requirements
and preferences given by the data consumer, it is very likely
that most of these data collections cannot fulfill data consumer
requirements. Redundancy, poor data quality, inaccuracy and
limited financial incentives are common problems for existing
IDMs, thereby making them financially ineffective. Due to the
temporal nature of IoT data, the issue of pre-collection becomes
even more critical as it is not trivial to re-collect data from the
past.
This paper presents a novel framework with a new on-
demand market model, namely Decentralized IoT Collectabil-
ity Data Marketplace (DCDM) model. Difference from the
conventional IDM models where merely data collections are
considered as a commodity, our model also involves opera-
tional factors such as data provider availability, operationality,
contextual and geographical location etc. This empowers our
framework to trade not only the dataset but rather an
ability of the data provider to fulfill the collection task. Our
game-changing approach is realized using a combination of
Blockchain and Crowdsensing techniques. We first explore the
concept of ”Data Collectability” for IDM, then build a model to
deploy our approach on IoT context. Furthermore, we identify
potential applications and open research challenges.
Keywords-Internet of Things; IoT; Blockchain; Data Market-
place; Crowdsensing; Decentralized System; Smart Contracts
I. INTRODUCTION
With the proliferation of numerous IoT and mobile de-
vices, an enormous amount of data is being produced at
a very rapid rate. With the estimation of over 20 billion
devices connected by 2020, it is expected that a huge
number of devices will continue to produce data streams
containing sensor data observations. According to Forbes,
the estimated market size of IoT is around 1.5 trillion USD
by 20201. However, a key open research challenge is to
1https://tinyurl.com/y6qleg5p
tap these data streams from IoT devices and build useful
applications on top of IoT infrastructure. Most of the existing
IoT applications are designed to address a domain specific
problem, hence resulting in data silos. The true potential
of IoT can be achieved by establishing open data platforms
which can potentially host a large amount of data which can
be re-used by multiple applications on demand.
With the growing popularity of IoT and sensing devices,
a large number of data providers are normal citizens, pro-
ducing various types of data streams regularly. The most
common example of such data streams is a GPS trajectory
generated by any smartphone user. Besides GPS, nowadays
a smartphone contains 15 sensors on average. Additionally,
IoT devices are an integral part of smart cars, smart homes
and weather stations, etc. However, due to the privacy and
security concerns and lack of monetizing mechanisms for
common data streams, there is a very limited interest in users
to share data produced by their personal devices. Beside
security and privacy concerns, the technical challenges (both
at hardware and software level) involved to publish IoT data
are also a major hindrance in the wide spread of IoT. Web of
things enables publications of IoT data on the Web is such
a way that normal users with limited technical knowledge
can easily publish their data on the Web [1]–[3].
Realizing the true potential and value of data produced
by users, the concept of building a marketplace is gaining
momentum. These marketplaces provide a common platform
for data producers to sell their data which can be purchased
by data consumers depending on their need. Typical infor-
mation flow for such marketplaces is that the data producer
or owner upload their data including its features similar to
any online store. While data consumers can browse through
samples and make an online purchase of data based on their
needs. However, the nature of IoT data is such that it is not so
trivial to build common data marketplaces for decentralized
IoT infrastructure which can handle the amount of streaming
data. However, the concepts of collect-ability, on-demand
data collection decentralized IoT data markets are so far
almost non-existent.
In this paper, we propose an on-demand decentralized
978-1-7281-2171-0/19/$31.00 © 2019 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure 1. Example of the collectability of a smartwatch with multiple built-in sensors.
solution for IoT marketplaces using the concept of col-
lectability. It employs crowdsensing capabilities in order
to build a new business model for trading IoT data in
the marketplace. Using our framework, users can launch
requests for crowdsensing and data providers can collect data
on-demand following the requests from data consumers. We
leverage the Blockchain networks to build a decentralized
marketplace for IoT.
II. RELATED WORKS
Although IoT Data marketplace, Blockchain and crowd-
sensing are well-investigated disciplines, very few cross-
domain studies has been conducted. Several industrial so-
lutions are proposed for selling IoT data in a central-
ized manner, such as Dawex (www.dawex.com), Quandl
(www.quandl.com) and Xignite (www.xignite.com). From
scientific perspective, many studies introduced centralized
cloud-based systems, such as Sensing-as-a-Service model
[4] to enable an open IDM. However, their centralized
architecture raises many privacy and resilience questions.
In recent years, there has been a growing interest in decen-
tralizing the market with Blockchain technology or decen-
tralized repositories [5]. Smart contracts are implemented
to enhance transaction integrity, reputation mechanism and
privacy preservation [6]. A few Blockchain-based decen-
tralized data stream markets have emerged recently, such
as Wibson (www.wibson.org), Streamr (www.streamr.com).
Preliminary works focused on using Blockchain, such as
Ethereum (www.ethereum.org), Bitcoin (www.bitcoin.org),
Ripple (www.ripple.com/xrp/), especially smart contract for
handling transactions and financial reward delivery resulting
in a decentralized payment service. Nevertheless, the data
doesn’t travel directly from provider to consumer, thus a
complete decentralization is not fully realized. This chal-
lenge is addressed by Jiang et al. [7] with a Peer-to-Peer
Crowdsensing Data Sharing model. They investigated the
marketplace from the game-theoretic perspective, focusing
on proposing an effective gamification strategy. Zheng et
al. [8] emphasized on the profit perspective of the market
and proposed VENUS, a framework of profit-driven data
acquisition, aiming to maximize the profit and minimize the
payment. However, to the best of our knowledge, the existing
solutions are inadequate to bridge the gap between the three
aforementioned fields.
III. DATA COLLECTABILITY MARKETPLACE
The IoT facilitates an immediate access to the sensed data
using a network of identifiable devices interconnected via the
internet [9]. These devices are equipped with sensors that
can detect events or changes in the environment. Existing
IDM solutions are centralized and buy/sell historical data
collections. We consider an alternative approach to migrate
from the dataset-based approach (data collections) to the
service-based approach (data collectability).
A. Data Collectability of IoT devices
Data collectability refers to the capability of an IoT
device or sensor to collect and transmit sensory data to the
designated destination. As todays’ sensors are ubiquitous
(e.g. smart building, smart factory and smart cities) and
often constantly on the move (e.g. smart cars), the concept
of collectability must also consider operational factors, such
as human factor (i.e. device owner/operator availability) and
communication infrastructure.
Collectability can be assessed from the following four
major dimensions:
• Capability refers to the hardware-related characteristic
of a device. It also indicates the type of data and
technical specifications of the device and collected data.
• Availability depicts the uptime of the device, as well as
its geographical and temporal availability range.
• Operationality indicates whether a device can be cor-
rectly calibrated and configured to meet a sensing task.
The human factor is the major determinant of both the
quantity and quality of the collected data e.g. network
administrator or device owner’s ability to operate and
troubleshoot the device.
• Reputation related to the historical performance of
sensors and their owner/operator. It is mainly relying
on automatic feedback and user reviews, showing how
well the device carried out sensing tasks in the past.
Figure 1 exemplifies the data collectability of a smart
watch with 7 different sensing capabilities, 3 operational
configurations, a reputation score and a time schedule for
availability. This scenario shows how normal sensing devices
can offer a service of collectability.
B. Collectability Productization and Monetization
IoT data collectability could be considered as a service
or commodity, where device owners can trade the right
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Table I
A COMPARISON BETWEEN COLLECTION-BASED AND
COLLECTABILITY-BASED DATA MARKETPLACE
Data Marketplace Model Approach
Collectability-based Collection-based
Pre-ordering 3 7On-demand
data collecting Dataset customization 3 7
Scope Future HistoricalNature of Data Type Stream Static/Stream
Collecting process 3 7
Provider reputation 3 3
Device reputation 3 7
Quality
Assessment
Finished dataset 7 3
Device ownership Provider Provider
Data ownership Consumer
(transferable)
Provider
(transferable)Privacy
and Ownership Right to use the device Consumer Provider
to use their sensing force for a specified time period in
exchange for a monetary reward. For example, the owner
of a smart watch (as shown in Figure 1) can offer the
collectability of gyroscope and accelerometer sensors to a
researcher who wants to collect real-time data for training
activity recognition models.
However, due to the dynamic nature of IoT data and
multiple influential factors, it is not easy to productize and
monetize the data collectability without sophisticated solu-
tions. A decentralized marketplaces environment, combining
conventional marketplace principles with community mon-
etization mechanisms (e.g. gamification), distributed ledger
technology (e.g. Blockchain) and crowdsensing technique is
one of the most prominent approaches.
C. Data collectability versus collection marketplace
Compared to data collection marketplace, data collectabil-
ity marketplace has many distinct advantages as shown in
Table I. Although both approaches have similar goals, the
collectability approach focuses on on-demand real-time data,
providing an opportunity to produce customized datasets
in a cost-effective way. The most important feature is the
support for on-demand data collecting of future data streams
ensuring high quality and production rate. Data collectability
also clearly distinguishes the device’s ownership and right-
to-use providing methods for the device and including
confidentiality and copyrights.
D. Selling in a reserved sensing session
Collectability marketplaces bring an added value by al-
lowing the provision of data collectability as service during
exclusively reserved sessions. This will allow data brokers
to reserve collecting session from providers, then trade
or share it with a third party (i.e. consumer). The open
market can itself adjust to the price according to supply
and demand, guaranteeing a free trade environment. The
marketplace can also impose regulations to ensure fair, open
and trustworthy trade between data providers, consumers and
other stackholders.
IV. IOT COLLECTABILITY MARKETPLACE MODEL
In this section, we define a model for IoT Collectability
Marketplace and identify major actors involved, including
the interactions between them. We also lay down major
functionalities of our proposed marketplace.
A. Marketplace Actors
We identify the following four major actors in the IoT
Collectability Marketplace;
• Producer: A working sensor that can collect sensory
data and transmit to a defined destination.
• Provider: An intermediary device (autonomous, or
partly operated by a human) with sufficient computing
power and network connection in order to collect
sensory data from producers. Providers also manage
all connected producers and serve as an intermediary
node in the network e.g. gateways.
• Consumer: A machine or human capable of receiving
purchased data while having a purchasing power to
complete the transactions.
• Trader or Broker: A trader or broker is an intermedi-
ary facilitating transactions between the data provider
and consumer, and in some cases, holding the stocks
for future sale with a good price.
• Marketplace Operator: A combination of technolo-
gies and algorithms autonomously operating (controlled
by a human) to facilitate smooth execution of data
transactions at the marketplace.
B. Marketplace Model
As depicted in Figure 2, the DCDM Model consists of
the following four conceptual layers:
Sensor and Sensor Owner/Operator layer consists of
IoT devices with sensors as well as their owner or operator.
This layer is operated by producers, who own collectability
(as discussed in section III-A) with the intention to join the
market. Producers can be stand-alone devices (e.g. camera),
installed in another device (e.g. smartwatch, smartphone,
and/or tablet), artifacts (e.g. car, ship) or structure (e.g.
building, road system). Every sensor has a legal owner at
a given time, who is not necessarily the same as the sensor
operator.
Sensing provider layer consists of devices that can dis-
cover, manage and collect data from sensors. Their primary
responsibility is to publish the collectability of sensors to a
marketplace. This layer is maintained by providers who send
data stream to the subscribed consumer. Traders and Brokers
only perform buying and stocking activities without shuttling
any data. It is mandatory that all providers are registered at
the marketplace and their connected sensors’ collectability
can be automatically updated to the marketplace catalog.
Blockchain Network and Collectability Marketplace
layer performs transactions, quality assurance and trading
activities. Collectability marketplace provides a meeting
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure 2. IoT Collectability Marketplace Model
place for all actors. Every exchange and transaction between
stakeholders are legalized with smart contracts and deployed
over a Blockchain network. This layer also monitors service
quality level, enabling a reputation system for data providers.
The Blockchain network is operated by its participants,
whereas the marketplace is managed by the market oper-
ators.
Data and Sensing Consumer layer consist of human,
applications and/or machines looking for IoT data. Every
data consumer must register at the marketplace, proof their
identity and purchasing power before making any transac-
tions. Whenever a consumer places a request for data, the
match-making method identifies relevant data sources and
corresponding providers. If both the provider and consumer
agree to a transaction, the marketplace issues and executes a
smart contract between them. Once the contract is in place,
the provider can send data directly to the consumer under
the marketplace (optional) supervision.
It is worth mentioning that although the above list depicts
a layered architecture, the actual topology of our model
comes as a decentralized network, in which the Blockchain
network serves as a backbone for all data and monetary
transactions.
C. Collectability Marketplace functionalities
The primary functionalities of the marketplace are hosted
at a decentralized collectability marketplace node, which
integrates Blockchain and Crowdsensing components. This
marketplace facilitates the recognition and negotiation be-
tween pseudo-anonymized or fully-anonymized actors. Data
provision and integration carried out by providers and con-
sumers themselves.
The functionalities of the marketplace include:
Institution: DCDM node sets up the roles and protocols
for the interactions among actors. It maintains a catalog
of collectability of all registered nodes as registered by
providers and traders. It can also track the ability of
consumer nodes to integrate data from multiple providers.
Historical performance of both provider and consumer builds
a reputation system, indicating their trustworthiness.
Recommendation & Pricing Mechanism: After receiv-
ing the query from a consumer via the DCDM portal,
the marketplace searches for the best sources according
to the collectability of registered nodes and recommends
them to the consumer. After this, the negotiation between
stakeholders starts to agree on the terms and conditions.
Contract & Transactions Once both providers and
consumers reach an agreement, the marketplace creates a
smart contract between them. The marketplace allocates a
sensing task to stakeholders according to the agreement and
monitors the whole process. All transactions are carried out
transparently over the Blockchain network.
Quality Assurance This is one of the key services of the
marketplace. Both consumers and providers are required to
continuously send a statistical summary of the data stream
to the marketplace for quality assessment. The outcomes
of these tests serve as one input of the smart contract,
and more importantly, contribute to the reputation score of
participants.
V. COLLECTABILITY MARKETPLACE IN ACTION
In this section, we illustrate a use case of monitoring noise
pollution level through crowd-sensing using our proposed
marketplace.
Environmental monitoring. Urban noise is a serious
environmental problem in today’s cities, threatening the
life of human and wildlife [10]. Thus, monitoring noise
pollution, especially anthropogenic noise from construction
activities is critical to protect public health. A city council
wants to monitor the hazardous noise levels of a large
construction for a period of 2 months. However, for such a
short period, purchasing a new sensor network and commu-
nication infrastructure is not financially viable. Therefore,
as a consumer, the council looks for a data collecting
solutions on DCDM. Figure 3 exemplifies the efficiency
and effectiveness of DCDM when supporting community-
based noise data collection. The process commences when
the consumer node operated by city council’s staff submits
a query to the DCDM web portal (violet rectangle), in-
dicating requested data type, technical specifications, pre-
ferred temporal and spatial limitations. The DCDM portal
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure 3. Noise pollution data collecting with the support of DCDM
passes the query to DCDM node to find the best providers
according to the collectability information published (blue
rectangle). Because, in this case the data producers are
available at different timings, service composition function
of DCDM manages to recommend the best combinations
for collectability. Then, the terms and conditions including
prices are negotiated, and once the agreement is reached,
the DCDM node creates a smart contract for each provider
(red scripts) which is signed by all parties including DCDM.
At an agreed time, the provider starts sending data directly
to the consumer. Meanwhile, quality indicators are collected
by the DCDM node to evaluate the quality of service and
quality of information, as well as the behavior of both sides.
Upon the completion of data collecting process, the financial
reward are automatically distributed as defined on the smart
contract. The above example is just an illustration of poten-
tial use case. However, we strongly believe that DCDM has
strong potential in various domains such as Smart Mobility,
Smart Cities, Smart Health-care and crowdsensing based
data collection scenarios.
VI. ADVANTAGES AND OPEN RESEARCH CHALLENGES
A. Advantages
IoT Collectability Marketplace Model proposes a new
approach for IoT data marketplace. The major advantages
of our model include:
Decentralized architecture: The model is built on top of
Blockchain decentralized network. The DCDM node solely
acts as a broker and optionally as a quality controller. In
particular, the most important tasks (i.e. data transmission
and transactions) are carried out in a peer-to-peer fashion
between data providers and consumers. Therefore, partici-
pants do not have to rely on any central authority and avoid
a central point of failure. This makes our market model
relatively resilient compared to the centralized solutions.
Community-based: Our model takes advantage of the
unused pervasive IoT devices to sense and collect data, thus
generating a remarkable sensing force. The collectability
approach enhances this force with flexibility for the data
provider and cost-effectiveness for the data consumer. It
empowers users to take control over their information and
transactions. Furthermore, the consensus protocols (inherited
from blockchain network) bring the policing role (which
were previously held by a third party) to the community,
promoting transparency and trustworthiness of the network.
Boosting performance with reward mechanism: Choos-
ing a trusted data provider is a critical challenge for both
data marketplace and crowdsensing system. Our reputation
system is built using the historical transactions in a shared
ledger, which is tamper-proof and immutable. Such system
ensures a transparent, traceable and trusted execution of
transactions for both data providers and consumers.
Private and secured: Our model inherits data anonymiza-
tion methods, which are the well-developed feature of
both Blockchain and crowdsensing realms, which further
strengthens the security and privacy of all participants of
our marketplace.
A sharing economy: Collectability is not the data itself,
thus it can be employed by multiple consumers. By enabling
the Collectability Sharing Economy, our model allows com-
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
panies and individuals to share collected data with partners
or other third parties after consent from the provider and
giving an appropriate reward. It benefits data consumer with
inexpensive data collecting while giving the provider the
chance to maximize their income.
Industrial implications: Our model extends the last stage
in the evolution of industrial sensing by combining human
wisdom with the sensing network [11]. Potential applications
include business intelligence, marketing, personal, product
and environmental monitoring.
B. Open Research Challenges
Bringing together collectability marketplace and IoT
crowd-sensing provides many research and business oppor-
tunities. A few potential research directions include:
Marketplace Institution: Sensing devices are operated
by anonymous members of the community, making it dif-
ficult to fairly shape behaviors of stakeholders. Thus, solid
protocols are needed, including transparent trust manage-
ment and quality assurance mechanisms.
Authentication and Verification: Governing a large num-
ber of IoT devices with limited resources and a high mobility
is a complex problem. More importantly, collectability in-
formation provided by providers need to be automatically
and independently verified to prevent fraud and speculation.
Incentive: Feedback/reward is crucial to encourage good
behaviors between participants, hence enforcing the insti-
tution. Thus, further investigation to build an integrated
incentive mechanism is required, combining both financial
as well as reputation based rewards.
Scalability: As the foundation of this model is Blockchain
network, scalability becomes one of the most problematic
concern [12]. Realizing the potential bottleneck for our mar-
ketplace, we kept the transmission of actual data away from
the network of transactions and intentional avoid storing
large IoT data streams at the transaction ledger. However,
it is important to have a scalable solution which can handle
a large number of IoT data streams with high volume and
velocity.
Privacy and Security: Many types of data, such as
medical records or payment data are sensitive for each
individual. Therefore, more studies is critical to protect
participant’s privacy and security.
VII. CONCLUSION
This paper presented a comprehensive overview of IoT
Collectability marketplace model and how it fits IoT data
acquisition. We elaborated a new market approach using
our model, which focuses on trading collectability of IoT
devices following a peer-to-peer model. We provided an
overview of functionalities and interaction between actors
on the market. We discussed how our model can empower
community-based sensing with remarkable implications in
various domains in the modern economy, such as environ-
mental monitoring, smart mobility, smart healthcare. We
believe that our work is one of the pioneering approaches
to combine blockchain and crowdsensing technologies and
facilitating on-demand decentralized marketplaces for IoT
data collectability.
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This publication has emanated from research supported
in part by a research grant from Science Foundation Ire-
land funding for Enable Spoke, under Grant Numbers
12/RC/2289 and 16/RC/3918, co-funded by the European
Regional Development Fund.
REFERENCES
[1] D. Guinard, V. Trifa, E. Wilde, et al., “A resource oriented
architecture for the web of things.,” in IoT, pp. 1–8, 2010.
[2] A. Kamilaris, S. Yumusak, and M. I. Ali, “Wots2e: A search
engine for a semantic web of things,” in IEEE 3rd World
Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT), pp. 436–441, 2016.
[3] D. Dell’Aglio, D. L. Phuoc, A. L. Tuán, M. I. Ali, and
J. Calbimonte, “On a web of data streams,” in Proceedings
of DeSemWeb2017, co-located with 16th ISWC, 2017.
[4] C. Perera, A. Zaslavsky, P. Christen, and D. Georgakopoulos,
“Sensing as a service model for smart cities supported by
internet of things,” Transactions on Emerging Telecommuni-
cations Technologies, vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 81–93, 2014.
[5] P. Koutroumpis, A. Leiponen, L. D. Thomas, et al., “The
(unfulfilled) potential of data marketplaces,” tech. rep., The
Research Institute of the Finnish Economy, 2017.
[6] F. Liang, W. Yu, D. An, Q. Yang, X. Fu, and W. Zhao, “A
survey on big data market: Pricing, trading and protection,”
IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 15132–15154, 2018.
[7] C. Jiang, L. Gao, L. Duan, and J. Huang, “Scalable mobile
crowdsensing via peer-to-peer data sharing,” IEEE Transac-
tions on Mobile Computing, vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 898–912, 2018.
[8] Z. Zheng, Y. Peng, F. Wu, S. Tang, and G. Chen, “Trading
data in the crowd: Profit-driven data acquisition for mobile
crowdsensing,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Commu-
nications, vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 486–501, 2017.
[9] M. Kocakulak and I. Butun, “An overview of wireless sensor
networks towards internet of things,” in Computing and
Communication Workshop and Conference (CCWC), 2017
IEEE 7th Annual, pp. 1–6, IEEE, 2017.
[10] R. T. Buxton, M. F. McKenna, D. Mennitt, K. Fristrup,
K. Crooks, L. Angeloni, and G. Wittemyer, “Noise pollution
is pervasive in us protected areas,” Science, vol. 356, no. 6337,
pp. 531–533, 2017.
[11] L. Shu, Y. Chen, Z. Huo, N. Bergmann, and L. Wang, “When
mobile crowd sensing meets traditional industry,” Ieee Access,
vol. 5, pp. 15300–15307, 2017.
[12] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H.-N. Dai, and H. Wang, “Blockchain
challenges and opportunities: A survey,” Work Pap., 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.