Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation of HEIs in Latin America
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges
in the Digital Transformation of HEIs
in Latin America
José Humberto Serna Gómez, Flor Nancy Díaz-Piraquive ,
Yasser de Jesús Muriel-Perea , and Alejandro Díaz Peláez
Abstract The information society is characterized by the information data conver-
sion and the information in knowledge to support the decisionmaking and the human
development. In this sense, the digital transformation implies not only the use of
technology to store data, but also a change of processes and organizational culture,
allowing the entry of knowledge management into the new economy of the intangi-
bles. This transformation has changed the game rules of socio-technical systems of
organizations and their interrelationships, impacting different components of orga-
nizations. Advance in adapting the transformation in organizations has not been
symmetrical in all sectors and regions of the world. Previous research shows that in
education in Latin America the degree of incorporation has been less than in other
economic sectors and zones of the world. That is why, the objective of study is the
identification and analysis of the progress achieved by the Higher Education Institu-
tions (HEIs) of the region, concerning digital transformation of their academic and
management processes, besides recognizing their opportunities and challenges in the
context of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. The methodology includes a qualitative
approach. To collect the information, the document analysis technique is used, and
the main factor is the searching through reference database and complete text. Data
analysis is made in accordance with the pillars of the Fourth Industrial Revolution,
central and management, digital transformation enablers of missionary, and support
processes of the HEIs. The results show that, while it is true that the HEIs in Latin
America lag behind their peers in other countries, it is found that, from 2018, the
progress on the digital transformation of processes of the HEIs in Latin America
has been very significant. The main impact is given in the incorporation of pillars of
industry 4.0 in: graduation, using blockchain; teaching, collaborative virtual reality;
J. H. Serna Gómez · F. N. Díaz-Piraquive (B) · Y. de J. Muriel-Perea · A. Díaz Peláez
Fundación Universitaria Internacional de La Rioja, Calle 100 No. 19-61 Piso 8, Bogotá, Colombia
e-mail: flornancy.diaz@unir.edu.co
J. H. Serna Gómez
e-mail: josehumberto.serna@unir.net
A. Díaz Peláez
e-mail: alejandro.diazpelaez@unir.net
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2021
D. Burgos and J. W. Branch (eds.), Radical Solutions for Digital Transformation in Latin
American Universities, Lecture Notes in Educational Technology,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-3941-8_4
55
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-16-3941-8_4&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5966-6224
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6304-5634
mailto:flornancy.diaz@unir.edu.co
mailto:josehumberto.serna@unir.net
mailto:alejandro.diazpelaez@unir.net
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-3941-8_4
56 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
artificial intelligence to assist students; universitymanagement, through virtual assis-
tants; and research supported by robotic. Improvement of cyber-physical and big data
systems is not evident. It is concluded that digital transformation of the HEIs in Latin
America is in the phase of early adoption, with some successful cases of the main
reference HEIs, top-ranked in the academic ranking of the region, which will prob-
ably be imitated by other HEIs. The main challenges for the digital transformation of
theHEIs in LatinAmerica are related to culture, resistance to change, the hierarchical
government, and the understanding that information is the key asset of the knowledge
society. A new opportunity emerges for the digital transformation of HEIs in Latin
America and for the researchers of the topic.
Keywords Digital transformation · Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) · Industry
4.0 · Latin American HEIs ·Management in HEIs · Socio-technical system in HEIs
1 Introduction
The digital transformation (DT) is the organizational alignment between processes,
people, and technology with the aim of complying efficiently with all the relevant
activities of the company, to satisfy the needs and expectations of interested public
around the Industry 4.0. The DT goes beyond the digitalization of process, and it
is a deep transformation of the organization activities, processes, competences, and
patterns to face challenges and take advantage of the emerging technology opportu-
nities and its accelerated impact on society (Gobble, 2018). The DT includes people,
processes, strategies, structures, and competitive dynamics (Wade, 2019).
The DT’s scope comprises all sectors of society and therefore includes the Higher
Education Institutions. In Latin America, there are 4.065 universities (Webometrics,
2020), and there is enough evidence of contributions they make to human, social
and economic development of people and regions. For example, in the economical
aspect, an exercise that modeled the impact of education in fifty countries between
1960 and 2000 found that one additional year of education could increase the income
of a person in about 10% and the annual average gross domestic product (GDP) in
about 0.37% (Hanushek, 2008).
The purpose of this research is to identify the progress, opportunities, and chal-
lenges in the digital transformation of the Higher Education Institutions (HEIs) in
Latin America.
The document is organized as follows: preliminarily, the methodology, socio-
technical system of the digital transformation, and the digital transformation in the
management of the HEIs in Latin America; then, the management of universities in
Latin America, the organizational structures, and the digital transformation in the
HEIs; and finally, the digital transformation in the management of universities in
Latin America and the technological dimension of digital transformation.
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 57
2 Methodology
This study applies a qualitative approach For the selection criteria of cases, it was
considered that the HEIs were recognized or ranked in the first places of QS universi-
ties ofLatinAmerica. To access documents and relevant information, for the research,
it mainly used the referential Scopus database, since it is one of the most recognized
platforms of scientific information worldwide. The searching was done in English
since it is the language in which most publications are found and with the aim of
reducing bias. Following is the search equation:
TITLE-ABS-KEY (digital AND transformation AND in AND Latin AND
America AND universities).
Countries anduniversities that havedonemost of research in digital transformation
are shown in Tables 1 and 2, respectively (DT = digital transformation and HEIs =
Higher Education Institutions).
3 Socio-technical System of Digital Transformation
The university is a social artifact which is introducing digital innovations in the
market, as well as in the academy and in research, and therefore, it drives the tech-
nological and social change with its implications. In this chapter, the relationship of
the technical sub-system in interaction with the social sub-system is considered. The
Table 1 Research by countries
Source Scopus (2020)
58 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
Table 2 Relationship of HEI that have done most of the research on DT
Source Scopus (2020)
conceptual socio-technical pattern with the technical and social dimensions is found
in mutual interaction.
It is assumed that there are agreements between the parties involved for the achievement of
their interests, which are represented in the different work structures and systems, necessary
for the management of the organization, which are generally based on technological tools.
Within the Organizational Technological System, the concepts of Core Technologies and
Management Technologies are displaced, intended to serve as shock absorbers to prevent
Core Technologies from being affected by contextual situations. (Díaz, 2020)
There is a reciprocal influence between the transformation and the organizational
culture. From one side, it implies changes in the organizational structures that makes
its culture to be impacted; in some cases, somepeople are empowered in the company;
in other cases, they are disempowered due to the digital transformation. On the other
hand, the organization’s culture may cause that the resistance groups that emerge
facing innovation, whether they are small or big, join the company in a normal or
conflicting manner, because of the digital transformation.
3.1 The University as a Socio-technical System
The Tavistock Institute developed a research action project, related to the spreading
of its work practices which produced an increase in productivity. This work was
assigned the concept of “socio-technical approach” referring to the new paradigm of
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 59
organizational work, by which it becomes necessary to find a new balance between
requirements of the social and technical systems (Trist et al., 1963).
3.2 Organizations as Socio-technical Systems
According to the concept of a socio-technical system, organizations can be char-
acterized from the existence of two large dimensions: the technical dimension
whose rationality is the generation of products (goods and services) for the satis-
faction of purposes for which universities were created, and the social dimension
whose rationality is to ensure that interpersonal/social relationships are focused to
satisfy an adequate interaction between people making part of the university and the
requirements of the technical system.
The dynamics between the two sub-systems is complex, and it is considered
of reciprocal influence: the technical system influencing the social system and vice
versa. The technical system should impact the social system encouraging a change in
the university culture and vice versa, but this is overly complex. This is due tomultiple
reasons such as: number of people participating as teachers and employees, and their
high connection, by their interaction levels, by the kind of university decisions, or
by the number of activities at the university.
3.2.1 Technical Sub-system: Core Technologies and Management
Technologies
Thompson (1976) cited by Felcman and Blutman (2020) characterized the technical
sub-system based on two types of technologies: core technologies and management
technologies. Technology is the knowledge used by organizations to transform inputs
into goods and services, to satisfy the purposes for which organizations were created.
This knowledge can be “incorporated” in an artifact such as internet, a computer, etc.,
or also when it is “disincorporated”, when it is found in the patents, in the building
blueprints, in the mind of those who have that knowledge (a teacher, a researcher or
an executive from the university, etc.).
Also, technologies can be core technologies: those which are designed to meet the
main objectives of the organization, such as educational technologies for teaching;
the research and transfer of knowledge, or the TIC infrastructure; or management
technologies: those designed to “isolate from context” or generation of “uncertainty”
conditions for core technologies, as the university administration, communication,
marketing, or the administration of the university campus.
Following this approach, complex organizations such as universities are social
artifacts created on purpose to reach objectives that generate certainty within an
uncertain context with which they interact. Under rational regulations, universities
seek to “isolate” their core technologies from the context influences, protecting them
60 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
with the provision of components of input/output to absorb the environment influ-
ences, leveling of transactions of input/output throughout anticipation of contextual
changes, by planning and programming of activities, rationing when all of the above
was not effective at the moment of protecting core technologies (Thompson, 1967).
3.2.2 Social Sub-system
For Felcman and Blutman (2020), in the social sub-system, while there are several
concepts that can be highlighted as components, emphasis is made in one which
is considered the base of the others: the organizational culture and the university
culture. Organizational culture is defined as a “pattern of made basic assumptions,
discovered or developed by a group focused on learning how to face their problems
of external adaptation and internal integration, who have had enough influence as to
be considered valid and, as consequence, be taught to new members as the correct
way to perceive, think and feel those problems” (Schein, 1988).
Schein identifies and distinguishes three levels of the organizational culture: A
visible level is composed of artifacts as objects, written standards, rituals, symbols,
and the labor environment; a second level is composed of values, which are the
preferences that members of an organization have, with respect to certain organi-
zational issues over others (remunerations, social benefits, spare time, interaction
with other members of the organization, satisfaction with tasks being performed,
compromise, self-realization, progress); the basic assumptions are the deepest and
“invisible” beliefs that make up the “organizational collective unconscious.”
3.3 Internet as a Social and Technological System
When speaking about the knowledge society, we speak about a socio-technical trans-
formation, since all societies are of “knowledge.” In this case, it is about a society
in which the conditions to generate knowledge and information processing have
been considerably altered by a technological revolution, focused on information
processing, to the generation of knowledge through the information technologies
(Castells, 2003).
Internet is a cultural creation that allows the emergence of a new economy and
the development of innovation and economical productivity. But Internet is revealed
as a culture through a social practice that conceives cultural diffusion, a dimension
referring to a visible level composed of devices, a value level, and a belief and
way level to mentally constitute the university community, which is decisive in the
generation of ways of these technologies andwhich is a key factor paradigm. The fact
that Internet is a culture that allows the creation of newconditions for organization and
innovation, as a support of the new economy, reorganized in networks and innovated
regarding capabilities of new ways to create added value, is only possible thanks to
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 61
the network technology. Those universities use Internet to organize their network
operation from the innovation of new digital technologies (Castells, 2003).
3.4 Governance of the Socio-technical Model
The corporate government identifies the strategic actors who get involved in the
university processes, for the university to comply with its purposes, through theories
such as the agency, the company, and management of knowledge.
It is considered that the university is an economic entity whose purpose is to maxi-
mize the economic profits through costs of its transactions. The university manage-
ment implies some costs which are not absorbed by prices, such as: the cost of search
for students and teachers, cost for differentiation of tuition costs, cost of contract
negotiation to carry out its transactions, and the cost to guarantee that what is agreed
in the programs is fulfilled, as well as costs to devise the different programs; these
are commonly called transaction costs.
However, there is still another theory defined with respect to cost saving for
coordination of the teacher training in the university, which establishes the duration
and restrictions of such costs that is determined by teacher incentives. Therefore, the
promoting of low-powered incentives in the university is as well an important factor
to inspire cooperation and coordination (Díaz, 2020).
On the other hand, power delegation/responsibilities should be considered,
between an agent and executive (dean, academic vice-rector, etc.) for the teacher
to do on his behalf teaching activities through the contract theory.
Finally, for Tarziján (2003), cited by Díaz (2020) to operate efficiently, the univer-
sity needs specific physical assets aswell as human resources (they constitute an intel-
lectual capital stock), which generates what is called the theory of the firm, based
on knowledge (technology). These are investments in human resources, language,
particular routines of the university, tacit and explicit knowledge, common ideas, etc.
Governance is how the groups are organized in the university tomake or implement decisions
in common agreement between the members that make up the corporate government, to
accomplish their objectives, to arbitrate their discrepancies and exercise their rights and
legal obligations, to comply with the university goals. This is what determines the north
of the university, through the system of strategies, policies, values, regulations, practices,
mechanisms, and processes that set up the restrictions for the administration of its economic,
political and social issues inside and outside of it. Also, there are two essential elements:
The Government Codes which are the adopted methods (tacit and explicit), to specify the
governance processes, and the Governance Tools which are the instructions or instruments
that operate the methods and define the options to implement them out (Díaz, 2020).
Going back to the socio-technical model, the purpose of the social sub-system is
to ensure that interpersonal/social relationships are aimed at the adequate interaction
between people that are part of the organization and the requirements of the technical
system. In this sense, coherence is the logical relationship between the two parties
62 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
or realities, so that no contradiction nor opposition is generated between them and
keeps them in the same position.
In other words, in the universities, due to the consolidation between the adminis-
trative patterns, the type of governance is created, the type of culture that has been
generating a coherence. This coherence has been around for years because, between
the administrative model, governance, technology, and the university culture, such
coherence was present.
With the advent of the new digital technologies, the rupture of coherence has
occurred. This happens when the logical relationship between realities is broken,
which produces contradiction. The university has been managed according to a tech-
nological structure and the vision of conceived university since its beginning. With
the arrival of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, as it was expected, the university
vision changed, and consequently decisions are to bemade according to the organiza-
tional culture and corporate government. It is expected that this causes the coherence
rupture.
From the university culture, it is expected that the university promotes the devel-
opment of the soft skills, which tend to disappear with the technology massifica-
tion. From the corporate government, training must be formalized in the new digital
technologies, as well as in core and management technologies.
4 Management of Latin American Universities
Management in Latin American universities, since nineteenth century, is origi-
nated and supported by several administrative theories which make emphasis on
the basic functions that integrate the management process, the labor division, the
definition of authority levels, the discipline, the control unit, the subordination unit,
the remuneration, centralization, hierarchy, order, equity, personnel stability, initia-
tive, binding results; all this originates the concept of administrative process and
departmentalization, and ends up in the achievement of the organization results.
Díaz (2020) synthesizes the administrative theories as well as their evolution
through corresponding patterns. Table 3 shows how those patterns are reflected at
that moment.
Table 3 Organizational theories
Theories and organizational patterns
Theory of scientific administration
• Organizational pattern of continuous
improvement (Uran, 1961; Crosby, 1979)
Human resources theory
• Organizational pattern (Adhocratic &
Mintzberg, 1979)
Theory of bureaucracy
• Pattern of bureaucratic organization (Max
Weber, 1922)
Classic theory of administration
• Organizational pattern of competitiveness
(Porter, 1990)
Source Díaz (2020)
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 63
Administrative management is the process by which the organization schedules,
plans, organizes, leads, controls, and evaluates the results; all this depends on each
organizational pattern (model).
Organizational patterns, from these theories, are classified as hierarchical, adho-
cratic, clan, or market type, while their structures can be matrix, by processes, or
in networks. They can be high or flat, depending on the decision and control levels
defined by the institution.
5 Organizational Structures of Universities in Latin
America
Rodriguez-Moscoso (2020) states that Latin America started a specific pattern of
university, from the Córdoba Reform of 1918, characterized by the autonomy of its
institutions, with amanagement framework based on themodality of co-government.
The dominant pattern in Latin America is basically similar to the Napoleonic pattern.
The autonomy, co-government at the institution with the participation of students,
teachers, graduated with voice and vote in the governing bodies make of this a
democratic and participative pattern.
However, the university government is hierarchical, Pyramidal, and departmen-
talized, with authority levels and control clearly defined in statutory rules. Autonomy
is clearly a characteristic of the public and private university management in Latin
America. It keeps a structure of hierarchical organization by substantial functions
of the university and a structure by processes of the support areas. Organizational
structures of Latin America are matrix structures. The organizational pyramid, for
the university management, is implicitly aligned with the institutional pedagogical
pattern, which leads to the functional missions and to the support processes, with
reliable and timely information for decision making that ensures the achievement of
the university goals.
TheGovernment of LatinAmerican universities has not changed significantly, and
it remains hierarchical, in both public and private universities. What has changed is
the way of generating impact in remote regions. In the case of teaching and learning
activities for distant populations from the headquarters, previously education was
developed through the radio, execution of physical guides, self-training validated by
the state, or regional distant education centers—RDEC.
Today, although the distance modality still persists, the academic activities devel-
oped through the virtual modality have increased exponentially. In this modality, the
pedagogical models supported by the use and appropriation of ICTs have made
it possible to bring knowledge, virtual classrooms, and self-managed develop-
ment to remote places where students are. Therefore, the methods and means of
reaching distant places have evolved: first, self-learning; then radio and television;
and later, with the appearance of the Internet as a hyper-transformer and inducer of
a fundamental change, the classroom was brought to the student.
64 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
In the virtual mode, on the one hand, the administrative activities required to
support academic activities are generally carried out centrally. On the other hand,
academic activities can be developed in a centralized or decentralized manner
depending on the policies of the IES. Centralization is reflected, for example, in
the hiring of teaching staff from the headquarters to teach academic activities in the
virtual mode, regardless of the geographical location of the students. Decentraliza-
tion occurs when both students and teachers are relocated far away the headquarters
of the HEIs.
6 The Digital Transformation in the Management
of University Institutions of Latin America
Digital transformation is understood as the process by which a Higher Education
Institution breaks the management paradigms of the past and reinvent them through
a creative disruption, supported by the utilization of digital technology, with the
aim of achieving a more effective management, generating relational capital with
its reference groups, and the institutional positioning. That is why the digital trans-
formation is not only the use of technology to store data, but above all, a change in
the existent organizational culture, to allow and facilitate the entry into knowledge
management, in the economy of its intangibles.
The political decision of the world countries to open their frontiers removed the
geographic barrier. Technology and communications evolved and wired together,
which at the end produced digitalization, leaving a global world with no frontiers,
without barriers, with communication accessible to all, and becoming a right of all
humanity.
This reality is described byMcLujan (1962, 1994) when he says that in the begin-
ning there were no communication means as we know them today, nor the way they
were at the end of twentieth century. For Fridman (2005), the globalization forces
have emerged in economic, commercial, andpolitical structures, changing frombeing
rigidly vertical to be frankly horizontal; that is how the world is flattening, leading
to a new era of collaboration between individuals and communities as never seen
before, which is affecting the way of doing business, as well as the role governments
play.
For Guajardo (2020), the digital transformation, in the Latin American universi-
ties, is not only a solution to common challenges of universities, but also a change of
mentality that creates more efficient processes in the management and pedagogical
experience.
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 65
6.1 Management of the Higher Education Institutions
in the Digital Transformation
Guajardo’s research (2020) clearly shows the digital retardation of universities,where
it is evident that only one-third of them become digital explorers. The Enterprise
Resource Management (ERP) emerges as a response to a culture of silos manage-
ment, in which, for each process of the organization, it was used an information
system, generating problems of redundancy and integrity of information. The ERP
is the response to that tendency of development of information systems defined as
“silos,” in which every problem of the organization was solved through an isolated
information system, generating redundancy and lack of integrity in the informa-
tion. Until the beginning of the twentieth century, the information was obtained and
processed manually. Digitalization arrived with functional solutions, for a university
management supported not only on data and reliable and timely facts, but also on
analysis, interpretation, and applications for the decision making that generate new
knowledge.
6.2 Impact Areas of Digital Transformation
Emerging digital technologies can have an important impact on the digital transfor-
mation of universities in Latin America. Duparc (2013) states that the real digital
transformation is achieved when all the organization assumes the importance of the
digital culture and makes it her own at all levels. Besides this, he says that it is not a
technology problem but a people and structure problem, and he confirms that the real
digital transformation is achieved when all the organization assumes the importance
of a digital culture making of it her own culture at all organizational levels, adopting
a new model of management that must be incorporated systematically throughout
the following components:
6.2.1 Sustainability of the University Campus
It is necessary to incorporate technology to support the institutional policy about care
and conservation of environment.
6.2.2 Infrastructure of the Communications and Information
Technology (CIT)
Emerging technologies may have an important impact on traditional technological
infrastructures of universities.
66 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
6.2.3 Infrastructure for Information Processing
The digital transformation has implications in the data processing centers of
universities.
6.2.4 Communications Infrastructure
The digital transformation has influence in digital technology development in the
telecommunication structures of universities.
6.2.5 Administration
The Higher Education Institutions are complex organizations, and as such, they need
tomanage the information. Digital transformation supposes a new “turn of the screw”
on using CIT for the administration of universities.
6.2.6 Processes of University Management
It is necessary to analyze the impact of emerging digital technologies in the process
automation of university management, with a future vision in the knowledge and the
emergence of the economy of intangibles.
7 The Technological Dimension in the Digital
Transformation of the Higher Education Institutions
in Latin America
The technological dimension of digital transformation is made up of data, software,
hardware, and communication networks. Data processed and converted into informa-
tion are the source of knowledge for decision making in the organizations (Loshin,
2012); therefore, they represent an input for the information to become a key asset
of companies, and they are essential for the analysis, diagnosis, and the generation
of early warnings in the organizations.
Regarding software, hardware, and communication networks, there are several
types of tools and information systems that allow the incorporation of digital transfor-
mation, in the business processes of organizations. Among themain types of tools are
ERP—Enterprise Resource Management, CRM—Customer Relationship Manage-
ment, SCM—Supply ChainManagement, ERM—Enterprise RiskManagement, and
KM—Knowledge Management, among others. Nevertheless, at the moment, the
digital transformation is mainly supported by technologies of the Fourth Industrial
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 67
Revolution. That iswhy, in this abstract progress on digital transformation is analyzed
regarding the Higher Education Institutions in Latin America, from the main pillars
of the Industry 4.0, whose fundamental concepts are presented below.
7.1 The Technological Pillars of Digital Transformation
Industrial revolutions are understood as disruptive changes affecting all sectors of
society (Schwab, 2016). According to Schwab (2016), along the history, four indus-
trial revolutions are recognized: The first one took place on the eighteenth century,
and it was characterized by passing from manual production to mechanized produc-
tion; the second one was originated on the nineteenth century, and its main charac-
teristic was the generation and use of electric power; the third one arose with the
electronic computer on the middle of twentieth century; the Fourth Industrial Revo-
lution arose on 2011 in Hannover, Germany, and it was strengthened on 2016 at
the World Economic Forum—WEF—from where it has been promoted. The main
characteristics of the Fourth Industrial Revolution are the cyber-physical systems,
which consist of the imbrication of physical and digital processes.
Incorporation of innovations in the companies, from the Fourth Industrial Revo-
lution onward, depends, in great measure, on pillars: artificial intelligence, Internet
of things, cloud computing, business intelligence, big data.
Artificial intelligence is referred to intelligent behavior in artifacts (Nilsson, 1998).
Internet of things is the relationship between the things—products, services,
places, etc., and people and processes made possible through technologies connected
by different platforms (Schwab, 2016).
Cloud computing is external provision of technology information (TI) services of the
business accessed via Internet, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT, 2012).
Business Intelligence means the conversion of data in information and information
in knowledge for decision making in the organizations (Loshin, 2012).
Big data is the management of large information packages characterized by volume,
variety, and speed (González et al., 2013).
Cybersecurity, meanwhile, is about ensuring confidentiality, integrity, and avail-
ability of the information in the cyberspace (Sutton, 2017).
The pillars of the Fourth Industrial Revolution support the efficiency of the
value chain of organizations. In this sense, they may be considered, according to
Thompson’s classification, as being core technologies as well as management tech-
nologies or both. The tendency is for technologies to respond and behave in accor-
dance with the business processes; the core and support processes of companies
are interconnected through the information, and the valuable activities, likewise,
technologies tend to be less specialized, and on the contrary, they support as many
processes as possible of organizations.
68 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
7.2 The Digital Transformation in the Higher Education
Institutions of the World
The first four economic sector leaders in adopting the pillars of the Fourth Industrial
Revolution are in order as follows: telecommunications, insurance, advertising, and
financial services (STATISTA, 2019). As observed, education is not among them;
nevertheless, we cannot deny the importance that this represents for the development
of regions and people, and the worldwide progress in this sense. The 4.0 education is
a phenomenon that changes the rules of the game in the education sector, placing the
student at the center of the ecosystem, and changing the teaching focus to learning
(FICCI, 2018), it goes from massive learning to personalized learning, according to
characteristics of students and not independent from them as it was before. Some of
the main cases have occurred in Higher Education Institutions of the USA, Australia,
and Japan.
In the USA, it is relevant in the case of the State of Georgia University, which
uses data analytical and predictive systems with more than 800 pre-established alerts
to track the students’ behavior on a daily basis, and so have an early detection of
possible dropouts (Georgia State University, 2019). During the last 10 years, the
main impacts of the project are as follows: increase of the number of graduations in
about 22%, USD 15 million savings in tuition payments, comparing year 2016 with
year 2012 (FICCI, 2018).
In Australia, the case of Deakin University is important, and they use artificial
intelligence and machine learning through the Watson IBM tool to help the students
find easy and quick information. The tool is called “Deakin Genie,” and it provides
answers to the students about the following topics: admissions, course registra-
tion, financial aid, student residences, skills evaluation for work and extracurricular
activities, among others (FICCI, 2018).
In Japan, the University of Hong Kong implemented an inter-institutional collab-
orative project called “Connect Ed Program.” The main purpose of the project is,
through a cloud platform, to facilitate the ideas and information interchange between
the students at the university, in England and other countries on topics related to the
health area (FICCI, 2018).
7.3 Preparing of Countries in Latin America for the Industry
4.0
On2018, theWorldEconomicForum (WEF)produced thefirst version of the compet-
itiveness index 4.0, which is made up of a series of new emerging factors that deter-
mine productivity in the period of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (WEF, 2018;
FEM, 2018). In accordance with the WEF, the index, whose qualification goes from
0 to 100, has 98 indicators organized in 12 categories: institutions, infrastructure,
adoption of information and communication technologies, macroeconomic stability,
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 69
health, people skills, product marketing, labor market, financial system, market size,
business dynamism, and innovation capacity.
All categories are important; however, the one directly related to the technological
dimension of digital transformation, using the pillars of the Fourth Industrial Revo-
lution, is the adoption of information and communication technologies. The factor
is made up of 4 indicators: cell phone subscriptions, mobile broadband Internet
subscriptions, fixed broadband Internet subscriptions, optical fiber Internet subscrip-
tions, number of users in Internet (WEF, 2018; FEM, 2018). In the 2018 version, 7
regions of the world and 140 countries were compared.
Regarding world regions, the first 5 places in the global index of competitiveness
4.0 are: USAwith 85.6 points, Singapore with 83.5, Germany with 82.8, Switzerland
with 82.6, and Japan with 82.5. The average of North America and Europe is 70
points, the average for Eastern Asia and the Pacific is 69 points, while for Latin
America is 56 points. As it can be seen, there is a huge gap betweenLatinAmerica and
the leader countries in the required conditions to adopt technologies in the Industry
4.0.
Regarding the comparison between the Latin American countries, the first places
in the ranking are for Chile, Mexico, and Uruguay, with 33, 46, and 54 points, respec-
tively. Then, next places are for Costa Rica, Colombia, Perú, and Panamáwith 55, 60,
63, and 64 points, respectively. Then appears, Brazil, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Paraguay, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Bolivia, Venezuela, and
Haiti. These two last countries are in places 127 and 138, respectively, out of the
total of 140 countries. Just as there are gaps between the regions of the world and
Latin America, there are also gaps in the interior of the regions to comply with the
conditions for the implementation of the 4.0 technologies.
7.4 The Digital Transformation in the Higher Education
Institutions of Latin America
There is evidence of progress in the incorporation of pillars of the Industry 4.0, for the
digital transformation of academic and support processes of the Higher Education
Institutions. For the analysis, out of those institutions were taken into account those
ranked in the first 10 places of the QS Ranking Latin America according to its most
recent version (QS, 2020). Therefore, for the study cases, universities from Chile,
Brazil, Mexico, Colombia, and Argentina were considered.
In Mexico, the “Tecnológico de Monterrey”, in 2018, for the first time did a class
using collaborative virtual reality between students from several university campus,
in an experience 100% of virtual immersion (Tecnológico de Monterrey, 2018). The
class has the same academic credit value as a face-to-face class. Likewise, since 2006,
the “Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México” (UNAM) designed the Robot
Justina, which on 2019 ranked the second place during the worldwide innovation
event RoboCup 2019; the robot is used for research (UNAM, 2019). In addition,
70 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
“Universidad Insurgentes” is a success case in the use of business intelligence for
higher education; the strategy was supported on ERP (Ellucian, 2020).
InColombia, the case of “UniversidaddelNorte” ofBarranquilla is relevant,which
uses artificial intelligence to advise students, through the Robot Steve. According
to the university, the students can query Steve (the robot), about administration and
business topics, initially in English, and the machine learns based on the previous
questions and answers presented (Universidad del Norte, 2019). In the same way, the
“Universidad de los Andes”, in 2019, bought from the Japanese company Softbank
the robot they calledOpera. The robot, similar as the one from “UniversidadNacional
Autónoma de México” (UNAM), participated in RoboCup 2019 and it is at the
present time being used for research. According to the university, the robot is being
programmed to support and guide the students in the induction processes and guide
the students to any place in the university (Andes, 2019).
In Argentina, the “Universidad Provincial del Sudoeste de la Provincia de Buenos
Aires (UPSO),” in 2018, became the first public university in Argentina to use
blockchain to guarantee authenticity of diplomas of its regular and continuing
education programs (UPSO, 2018).
8 Accelerators of Digital Transformation
The digital accelerators are environmental, cultural, and behavioral aspects of the
digital economy, which favor digital activities or initiatives (Accenture, 2020).
Governments and ironically the current COVID-19 are among them.
Regarding governments, if the first Latin American countries in the competitive-
ness 4.0 index are observed, they are countries where there are stated policies through
development plans, CONPES, decrees, or laws that create conditions for the digital
transformation to become a reality in those countries, such as in the case of the first
five ranked countries: Chile, Mexico, Uruguay, Costa Rica, and Colombia.
About Chile, the development national plan 2018–2022 includes among its
strategic objectives the strengthening of the digital infrastructure of the country,
facing the challenges of the technological revolution (Observatorio Regional de Plan-
ificación para el Desarrollo, 2020). Regarding Mexico, the Development National
Plan of Mexico 2019–2024, although it is not explicit about digital transformation
strategies, it does state an interest to massify the Internet coverage for the whole
country (ILPES, 2020). Regarding Uruguay, in its development national strategy
Uruguay 2050, it considers the guideline to take advantage of the opportunities of
digital economy, strategywhich seeks to “make ofUruguay amodel of the newdigital
economy, promoting the Technology, Information and Communications (TIC) not
only as a productive complex in itself, but also as an innovation vector acting as a
support and a development engine for all sectors” (CEPAL, 2020, Section guideline
2).
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 71
In the Costa Rican case, one of its objectives is “to promote the digital trans-
formation of the country through the development and evolution of international
mobile telecommunication system (IMT), to enable the generation of innovating
services, and promote competitiveness” (United Nations, 2020, Innovation Section,
competitiveness, and productivity). In the case of Colombia, its National Devel-
opment Plan 2018–2020 includes the agreement for the digital transformation in
Colombia and states that government, business, universities, and households will be
connected with the Age of Knowledge, and that “we will encourage a state policy for
the digital transformation and to benefit from the fourth industrial revolution” (DNP,
COLOMBIA, 2020, p. 132). The international mission of Experts 2019 proposed
a strategy about financing the information technology (to improve the educational
model and the regional development based on the generation and use of knowledge
(Presidencia de la República de Colombia, 2019). In the same way, in Colombia,
the National Economic and Social Policy Council of the Republic of Colombia—
CONPES, 2021–2030, indicates that it is necessary to adapt the environment for the
adoption of Industry 4.0 technologies.
As it is seen, in countries where governments show real interest in promoting the
digital transformation, the progress is considerable. It is all the opposite to see what
happens in other countries of the region such as Cuba, Venezuela, and Bolivia, where
lags are evident and where there is no evidence of massification and appropriation of
the technology information and communications, at least the way done by countries
that in this sense are ranked in the first places.
Besides governments, other circumstances that have driven the digital transforma-
tion are ironically the current pandemic COVID-19 that has considerably accelerated
a wide range of digital processes, not only in Colombia but in the rest of the world.
Quarantines and other mobility restrictions triggered the use of digital solutions, for
the most diverse activities of daily life. The scourge persists. Although the present
crisis did not generate the necessary digital transformations in all sectors, the struggle
measures against the new coronavirus, worked out as a catalyst of technologies,
habits, costumes, and consumption.
The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
published its Index of Digital Government (IDG) for this year, and Colombia ranked
the third place, behind South Korea and the UK. This scale measures the grade
of “maturity” of digital policies in the governments of the different OECD country
members, which include several of the richest countries of the world. The remarkable
performance of the country reflects the compromise of the national government, with
an agenda of digital transformation, led by the tightest circle of the Nariño House.
The above facts do not mean that the task in this front is accomplished. It is all the
opposite, and it confirms that the more advanced countries in digital transformation
count with the frames of public policies, the institutional actors, the private sector,
and the vision to go on.
72 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
9 Discussion and Conclusion
The master study in which progress has been presented, in the digital transformation
of the HEIs, in Latin America, focused on making more efficient their mission and
management processes, and it is found that, from year 2018 on, the incorporation of
pillars of theFourth IndustrialRevolutionhas been intensified.Applications are found
to support management, as the blockchain case, for the issuance of diplomas and the
virtual assistants to give responses to general inquiries from interested public. In
the same sense is found the application of artificial intelligence, to support research
processes, give responses, and solve doubts of the students on specific topics of
certain subjects. This progress is causing the modification of the business models of
the HEIs. Nevertheless, more than digital transformation, what we find now is the
digitalization of processes, cultural change is still needed. The main barrier for the
digital transformation in HEIs is the culture, in the sameway as previous studies have
shown, it also happens in the education sector of other regions as Europe, where it
is found that the main restriction is the insufficient technological resources and the
conservative culture (Vicente et al., 2020).
Regarding resource availability, the main income source of most of the HEIs of
Latin America is the tuition payments from students, with a participation of more
than 90% in the private HEIs. In public HEI, financing depends on the government
with limited resources; this explains why more relevant progress comes from HEI
of recognized quality but also because of their resources. Therefore, although they
present progress, there are investment restrictions in technology information and
communications (TIC). Regarding cultural issues, the HEIs of Latin America have
the same conservative culture of the world’s HEI. The economic aspects can be
solved easily, but not likewise the aspects concerning culture.
Therefore, the main challenges of the HEI of Latin America, for the incorpora-
tion of the digital transformation, are the management of the organizational cultural
change of the HEI sector, the progress in the same proportion of the social and tech-
nical systems, together with the gradual change of style of hierarchical government,
departmentalized and pyramidal, to a more horizontal one, in which government and
governance coexist. Governments play an important role as accelerators of digital
transformation.
Acknowledgements We are especially grateful to the Higher Education Institutions in Latin
America that have provided accessible information and which were a fundamental input for the
research.
References
Accenture. (2020). El avance de la economía digitral en Chile. Retrieved from https://www.accent
ure.com/t00010101T000000Z__w__/cl-es/_acnmedia/PDF-71/Accenture-Digital-Index-Chile.
pdf.
https://www.accenture.com/t00010101T000000Z__w__/cl-es/_acnmedia/PDF-71/Accenture-Digital-Index-Chile.pdf
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 73
Castells, M. (2003). La dimensión cultural del internet. Andalucia: Andalucia Educativa. Retrieved
from http://www.uoc.edu/culturaxxi/esp/articles/castells0502/castells0502.html.
CEPAL. (2020). Estrategia Nacional de Desarrollo Uruguay 2050. Retrieved from https://observ
atorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/estrategia-nacional-de-desarrollo-uruguay-2050.
Díaz, A. (2020). Modelo Socio—Técnico: Relación entre Sistema Social (Cultura Organizacional)
y Sistema Técnico (Herramientas Gobernabilidad). Tesis Doctoral en proceso de sustentación.
Universidad Católica de Argentina.
DNP, COLOMBIA. (2020). Plan Nacional de Desarrollo 2018–2022. Retrieved from https://col
aboracion.dnp.gov.co/CDT/Prensa/Resumen-PND2018-2022-final.pdf.
Duparc. (2013). 14th EFORT Congress 2013. Istanbul.
Ellucian. (2020). Inteligencia de negocios para instituciones de educación superior.
Retrieved from https://www.ellucian.com/es/casos-de-exito/inteligencia-de-negocios-para-instit
uciones-de-educacion-superior.
FEM. (2018). The Global Competitiveness Report 2018. Retrieved from https://www.weforum.org/
docs/GCR2018/01Frontmatter/4.%20Rankings.pdf.
Felcman, I.,&Blutman,G. (2020).Cultura organizacional: nuevos dioses y la búsqueda del eslabón
perdido para la transformación del Estado. Universidad de Buenos Aires (UBA)—Facultad de
Ciencias Económicas (FCE)—Centro de Investigaciones en Administr.
FICCI. (2018). University of the future bringing education 4.0 to life October 2018.
Firiedman, T. (2005). El mundo es plano. Forrar Straus & Giroux.
Georgia State University. (2019). Leading with predictive analytics. Retrieved from https://success.
gsu.edu/approach/.
Gobble, M. (2018). Digital strategy and digital transformation. Res. Manag., 2018(61), 66–71.
González Alcaide, G. G. (2013). La Colaboración científica: Una aproximación multidisciplinar
(Vol. 1). Nau Llibres.
Guajardo, P. (2020). La transformación digital en la educación Superior. The Rock Contenten
International—IDC International Data Corporacion.
Hanushek, E. A. (2008). Education and economic growth: it’s not just going to school but learning
that matters. Education Next, 8(2), 62–70.
ILPES. (2020). Plan Nacional de Desarrollo de México 2019–2024. Retrieved from https://observ
atorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/plan-nacional-de-desarrollo-de-mexico-2019-2024.
Loshin, D. (2012). Business intelligence: The savvy manager’s guide (2nd ed., The savvy manager’s
guide) (2nd ed.). Morgan Kaufmann.
Mcluhan, M. (2015). La Aldea Global: Transformaciones en la vida y los medios de comunicacion
mundiales en el siglo XXI: La Globalizacion del entorno. GEDISA.
McLuhan, M. (1962). The Gutenberg galaxy: The making of typographic man. Toronto. University
of Toronto Press.
McLuhan, M. (1994). Understanding media: The extensions of man. MIT Press (Original work
published 1964).
MIT. (2012). Six imperatives for to prepare your company for Cloud Computing. Center For
Information System Research.
Naciones Unidas. (2020). Plan Nacional de Desarrollo y de Inversión Pública del Bicentenario
2019–2022 de Costa Rica. Retrieved from https://observatorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/
plan-nacional-de-desarrollo-y-de-inversion-publica-del-bicentenario-2019-2022-de-costa-rica.
Nilsson, N. (1998). Artificial intelligence: A new synthesis. Morgan Kaufmann.
Observatorio Regional de Planificación para el Desarrollo. (2020). Programa de Gobierno de Chile
(2018–2022). Retrieved fromhttps://observatorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/programa-de-
gobierno-de-chile-2018-2022.
Presidencia de la República de Colombia. (2019). Misión internacional de sabios para el avance
de la Ciencia. Presidencia de la Républica de Colombia.
QS. (2020). QS Latin American University Rankings 2020. Retrieved from https://www.topuniver
sities.com/university-rankings/latin-american-university-rankings/2020.
http://www.uoc.edu/culturaxxi/esp/articles/castells0502/castells0502.html
https://observatorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/estrategia-nacional-de-desarrollo-uruguay-2050
https://colaboracion.dnp.gov.co/CDT/Prensa/Resumen-PND2018-2022-final.pdf
https://www.ellucian.com/es/casos-de-exito/inteligencia-de-negocios-para-instituciones-de-educacion-superior
https://www.weforum.org/docs/GCR2018/01Frontmatter/
https://success.gsu.edu/approach/
https://observatorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/plan-nacional-de-desarrollo-de-mexico-2019-2024
https://observatorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/plan-nacional-de-desarrollo-y-de-inversion-publica-del-bicentenario-2019-2022-de-costa-rica
https://observatorioplanificacion.cepal.org/es/planes/programa-de-gobierno-de-chile-2018-2022
https://www.topuniversities.com/university-rankings/latin-american-university-rankings/2020
74 J. H. Serna Gómez et al.
Rodriguez-Moscoso,M. E. (2020).Estructuras organizativas en educación universitaria. El Centro
de Tesis, Documentos, Publicaciones y Recursos Educativos más amplio de la Red. Mono-
grafias.com S.A. Retrieved from https://www.monografias.com/trabajos96/estructuras-organizat
ivas-educacion-universitaria/estructuras-organizativas-educacion-universitaria.shtml.
Salvat Martinrey, G., & Serrano, V., (2011). La revolución digital y la sociedad de la información.
Comunicación Social, 14.
Schein, E. (1988). La cultura empresarial y el liderazgo: Una visión dinámica. Plaza & Janes
Editores.
Schwab, K. (2016). The fourth industrial revolution. World Economic Forum.
STATISTA. (2019).Global No.1 Business Data Platform. Retrieved fromhttps://www.statista.com/.
Sutton, D. (2017). Cyber security: A practitioner’s guide. BCS Learning & Development Limited.
Tarziján, J. (2003). Revisando la Teoría de la Firma. Abante, 6, 149–177.
Tecnológico de Monterrey. (2018). Realidad virtual colaborativa. Retrieved from https://tec.mx/
es/noticias/nacional/educacion/el-futuro-llego-da-tec-clases-con-realidad-virtual-colaborativa.
Thompson, J. D. (1967). Organizations in action. McGraw-Hill Book Company.
Trist, E. L., Higgin, G. W., Murray, H., & Pollock, A. B. (1963). Organizational choice (Rle:
Organizations): Capabilities of groups at the coal face under changing technologies. Tavistock
Institute of Human Relations, 28.
UNAM. (2019). Robot de la UNAM obtiene plata en la RoboCup 2019. Retrieved from https://
www.fundacionunam.org.mx/historias/robot-de-la-unam-obtiene-plata-en-la-robocup-2019/.
UniversidaddeLosAndes. (2019). Inteligencia artifcial. Retrieved fromhttps://ingenieria.uniandes.
edu.co/es/multimedia/revista-contacto-inteligencia-artificial.
Universidad del Norte. (2019). Steve primer profesor robot de Uninorte. Retrieved from https://
www.uninorte.edu.co/rss-uninorteco/-/asset_publisher/10Qyg2d9nLC8/content/steve-primer-
profesor-robot-de-uninorte/73923?inheritRedirect=false.
UPSO. (2018). Diplomas Universitarios en Blockchain. Retrieved from https://certificados.upso.
edu.ar/.
Vicente, P. N., Lucas, M., Carlos, V., & Bem-Haja. (2020). Higher education in a material world:
Constraints to digital innovation in Portuguese universities and polytechnic institutes. Education
and Information Technologies, 25(6), 5815–5833.
Wade, M. (2019). Digital business transformation a conceptual framework. Glob Cent Digit
Bus Transform. Retrieved from http://www.huffingtonpost.com/vala-afshar/accenture-digital-7-
digital-business-transformation-lessons.
Webometrics. (2020). Ranking web de universidades. Retrieved from https://www.webometrics.
info/es/Americas/Latin_America?page=40.
José Humberto Serna Gómez Dl Universidad de Antioquia, M.A. Stanford University, ED,
D Harvard University, Associate in education Harvard University, P Associate professor (r) at
Universidad de los Andes, Associate professor at Fundación Universitaria Maria Cano, Researcher
Emeritus.
Flor Nancy Díaz-Piraquive Doctor in Computer Engineering: Information and Knowledge
Society. Systems Project Management Specialist and Project Preparation and Development.
Economist. Director of the Strategy, Creativity, and Innovation Research Group of the Fundación
Universitaria Internacional de La Rioja.
Yasser de Jesús Muriel-Perea Master’s Degree in Systems Engineering. MBA. University
Teaching Specialist. Systems Engineer. Researcher.
https://www.monografias.com/trabajos96/estructuras-organizativas-educacion-universitaria/estructuras-organizativas-educacion-universitaria.shtml
https://www.statista.com/
https://tec.mx/es/noticias/nacional/educacion/el-futuro-llego-da-tec-clases-con-realidad-virtual-colaborativa
https://www.fundacionunam.org.mx/historias/robot-de-la-unam-obtiene-plata-en-la-robocup-2019/
https://ingenieria.uniandes.edu.co/es/multimedia/revista-contacto-inteligencia-artificial
https://www.uninorte.edu.co/rss-uninorteco/-/asset_publisher/10Qyg2d9nLC8/content/steve-primer-profesor-robot-de-uninorte/73923%3FinheritRedirect%3Dfalse
https://certificados.upso.edu.ar/
http://www.huffingtonpost.com/vala-afshar/accenture-digital-7-digital-business-transformation-lessons
https://www.webometrics.info/es/Americas/Latin_America%3Fpage%3D40
Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation … 75
Alejandro Díaz Peláez Doctor in Administration, Universidad Católica de Argentina. MSC
System, University pf Sherbrooke. Statistician, Universidad de Medellín. Researcher at Fundación
Universitaria Internacional de La Rioja.
	 Advances, Opportunities, and Challenges in the Digital Transformation of HEIs in Latin America
	1 Introduction
	2 Methodology
	3 Socio-technical System of Digital Transformation
	3.1 The University as a Socio-technical System
	3.2 Organizations as Socio-technical Systems
	3.3 Internet as a Social and Technological System
	3.4 Governance of the Socio-technical Model
	4 Management of Latin American Universities
	5 Organizational Structures of Universities in Latin America
	6 The Digital Transformation in the Management of University Institutions of Latin America
	6.1 Management of the Higher Education Institutions in the Digital Transformation
	6.2 Impact Areas of Digital Transformation
	7 The Technological Dimension in the Digital Transformation of the Higher Education Institutions in Latin America
	7.1 The Technological Pillars of Digital Transformation
	7.2 The Digital Transformation in the Higher Education Institutions of the World
	7.3 Preparing of Countries in Latin America for the Industry 4.0
	7.4 The Digital Transformation in the Higher Education Institutions of Latin America
	8 Accelerators of Digital Transformation
	9 Discussion and Conclusion
	References