Blockchain Use in Home Automation for Children 
Incentives in Parental Control 
Saravid A/L Suchaad 
Embedded System Research 
Laboratory MJIIT 
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 
54100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
+60135230273 
saravidsuchaad@gmail.com 
Koichiro Mashiko 
Embedded System Research 
Laboratory MJIIT 
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 
54100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
+601114492596 
k.mashiko@utm.my 
Nordinah Binti Ismail 
Embedded System Research 
Laboratory MJIIT 
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 
54100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
+60123991906 
nordinah.kl@utm.my 
 
Mohamad Hafizat Zainal Abidin 
Embedded System Research Laboratory MJIIT 
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia, 
54100 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
+60125237646 
hafizat94@gmail.com 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Application of IoT (Internet of Things) is expanding rapidly as 
internet connects things in our homes and our personal devices 
and even our body, provides ease, entertainment and comfort to 
our daily lives. However, as everything personal is connected, 
security and privacy becomes a major challenge. Blockchain-
based IoT can provide a completely trusted and transparent 
environment with its tamper-resistant data structure, timestamp, 
data encryption and distributed consensus. Since cryptocurrency is 
the first application of blockchains, most blockchain mechanisms 
like Ethereum provides token-based peer-to-peer payment system 
that allows payment using a custom currency which enables IoT 
devices to pay or receive token without a third-party inclusion. In 
this paper we proposed to apply blockchain mechanism to 
education/discipline of children at home by through token-based 
parental control in which parent can encourage good behaviors 
and discourage bad behaviors of children via tokens transferred 
via blockchain network.  Current parental control is implemented 
in operating systems of smartphones that only prohibits the abuse 
of smartphone games or inappropriate web sites. However, this 
token-based parental control pay tokens to children with good 
behaviors that allow them to play or watch the proper contents as 
their rewards. Devices at home like television and computer are 
connected to the blockchain and accessible only when the user 
have a sufficient amount of tokens.  Children are given incentives 
in term of token by their parents if they do their homework 
properly or help their parents. Besides that, smart contract feature 
in Ethereum allows application to be programmed in a blockchain 
enables monitoring the activities of children through blockchain. 
This paper introduces the design of the token-based parental 
control by using smart contract schemes of Ethereum blockchain 
with a simple smart home setup as a proof of concept. 
CCS Concepts 
•Computer systems organization➝Embedded and cyber-
physical systems •Networks➝Network architectures. 
Keywords 
IoT; blockchain; parental control; smart home. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Internet of Things (IoT) started to emerge from nowhere thanks to 
the inexpensive internet and cloud today. Everything revolves 
around automation, data exchanges, cloud, cyber-physical systems, 
robots, Big Data, AI and (semi-)autonomous industrial techniques 
further motivates the generation of IoT devices [1]. Some reports 
[2] predicted that there might be up to 29 billion connected 
devices by 2022 with 16 billion of it is a short-range device and 
smart home [3] is a part of that short-range device, the number of 
which surpassing mobile device by twofold. Smart home allows 
home appliances (such as television, air conditioner and 
refrigerator) to be connected to the internet and providing 
innovative and smart service to humans [4]. We can remotely 
control our home devices over the internet and information about 
our home can be directly reach to our smartphone. 
IoT device generate, process and exchanges a lot of safety-critical 
data and privacy-sensitive information hence it is an appealing 
target of various cyber-attacks [5].  Many state-of-the art security 
frameworks are highly centralized and not necessarily suited for 
IoT because of the difficulty of scaling, many-to-one nature of 
traffic and single point of failure [6], [7]. Centralization also 
forces us to trust the provider of a service. Sometime, 
controversial event may happen such as the Facebook-Cambridge 
Analytica scandal where user private data is compromised [8]. As 
for smart home device, it is more trivial to protect and secure our 
privacy in home, place that very private and personal. To 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for 
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are 
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that 
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights 
for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be 
honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or 
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior 
specific permission and/or a fee. 
MLMI2018, September 28–30, 2018, Ha Noi, Viet Nam. 
© 2018 Association for Computing Machinery. 
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-6556-7/18/09…$15.00 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1145/3278312.3278326 
50
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3278312.3278326&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2018-09-28
guarantee a completely trusted, transparent environment, we 
propose a decentralized solution for smart home using blockchain. 
Blockchain is a technology used in cryptocurrency such as Bitcoin, 
provides an attractive technology for addressing the security and 
privacy challenges in IoT. Advantageous features of Blockchain 
are: decentralization, anonymity, and security [9]. These can be 
beneficial to IoT adding more security layer and relieved 
dependence on central server. It also provides tampered resistance 
data structure by timestamp, data encryption and distributed 
consensus. Not to forget that removing the centralization can 
reduce the cost of maintenance. 
In this paper we will discuss on detail of blockchain-based smart 
home in our design. We first start by how the IoT devices are 
initialized and how data exchange (communication) between 
devices is handled. In blockchain [10], data is stored in a chain of 
block with timestamp. Any new change to the blockchain can be 
done with transactions where node (device that participate in 
blockchain) broadcasts which is use as a way of communication. 
The second generation blockchain introduces us with intelligent 
contract like Smart Contract in Ethereum [11], makes the 
blockchain easier to use distributed application programming and 
speed up the transaction speed. With this feature, certain data or 
parameter to be transferred in blockchain can be programmed to 
be modified by certain device (i.e. temperature value only can be 
updated by temperature sensor) resulting in more organized data 
control in the blockchain. Furthermore, Cryptocurrency which 
champs the blockchain world can be applied child discipline 
management which can introduce a new way to make use of smart 
home technology in home. 
The rest of this paper is organized as following: Section 2 we 
introduce blockchain and how it operates in a smart home as a 
cloud-free setup. Section 3 presents an application of a blockchain 
that can be applied in house and how it is setup. Finally, section 4 
concludes this paper. 
2. CORE COMPONENTS 
2.1 Blockchain 
Blockchain is a distributed ledger or distributed database [9] 
which was introduced by the inventor of Bitcoin, Satoshi 
Nakamoto. It started when Satoshi Nakamoto wanted to create a 
currency which does not rely on a third party to process the 
electronic payment in this Internet era. Dependent on an 
institution or centralized authority suffers the inherent weaknesses 
of the trust-based model. Corruption or security breach can poise 
vulnerability and distrust. Blockchain begins with a timestamp 
server. A timestamp server works by taking a hash of a block of 
items to be timestamped and widely publishing the hash, such as 
in newspaper [10]. Each timestamp includes previous timestamp 
in its hash forming a chain, thus called a blockchain as shown in 
Figure 1. It is like a log whose records are batched into a 
timestamped block [9]. 
 
 
Figure 1. A blockchain data structure that will be duplicated 
across the blockchain network [10]. 
The distributed part of the blockchain is the decentralized network 
which is formed from multiple member and holds the replicated 
blockchain. They are connected in Peer-to-Peer manner and are 
called nodes. These nodes often called as miners validate any 
transaction or changes to the blockchain and forge the new block 
to the chain. Any transaction can be made through these nodes. 
The transaction will spread throughout the network and each node 
will agree and validate the transaction and came to consensus. 
Miners need to solve a „puzzle‟ with randomly generated guessing 
the right number that will make the cryptographic hash SHA-256 
result [9], [12]. The node succeeded this will be granted proof-of-
work (PoW) and gets to forge the new block. A small entity has a 
limited amount of resources and it need to have a stronger 
computation power compare to 2/3 of the network in order to take 
over the blockchain. This ensures the security of the blockchain 
where the content is hard to be tempered. Blockchain can be both 
public (open to all like bitcoin) and private (only selected 
members are allowed). Pair of public and private key are used to 
interact with the blockchain and can be referred as a personal 
account. Blockchain 2.0 introduces smart contracts which actually 
run other distributed applications directly on top of the blockchain 
demonstrated by Ethereum Blockchain [13]. 
2.2 Blockchain Integration in Smart Home 
A typical IoT environment usually requires a center server for 
recording data and analyze. This requires trust in third party 
company that runs the service if it runs outside the house or relies 
on central hub that runs inside the house. Either way if a 
centralized server is hacked, the data might be compromised, and 
fake data can be inserted to fool the user [14]. The worst case is 
when the cloud server is down the whole system might need to 
shut down and stop operating. However, with blockchain setup in 
a home, it eliminates the need to rely cloud server to run the smart 
home environment. 
 
 
Figure 2. Blockchain-based Smart Home overview. 
Based on Figure 2 each smart device is connected in a same 
blockchain using peer-to-peer (P2P) through a router. Since 
personal trustless is the aim here, private blockchain is used to 
allow only home connected devices. Devices equipped with single 
board computer (SBC) such as Raspberry Pi as the heart and 
Computer is installed with a blockchain client and help to 
maintain the blockchain operation. Such device also can be called 
as node or miner. This is important as it is the key to the 
distributed nature of the blockchain which provides advantages 
previously mentioned in Section 1. Other devices including the 
nodes will have their own set of public and private keys to interact 
with the blockchain. Devices can broadcast their transaction from 
a node to interact with the blockchain and eventually all node will 
agree to the transaction made. The use of blockchain here is to 
replace the need to install a central server. As a result, it becomes 
the way for the devices to communicate, data to be exchanged and 
51
stored. Smart contracts can be programmed such that one device 
can request data from other device and handle the data gathering 
process. For example, there are temperature sensor and an air 
conditioner that need to communicate. Smart contract can be 
programmed so that it will listen to the air conditioner to request 
temperature. If requested, then the smart contract can ask sensor 
to tell the temperature and hand it over to air conditioner. Same 
thing can be applied to user interaction, specific smart contract 
can be programmed for certain interaction and it easily can be 
done because blockchain like Ethereum is Turing complete [13], 
meaning it can perform programming similar to typical 
programming language like C++ or Python. 
This cloud-free setup helps to remove the need for a centralized 
cloud which in turn reduce in maintaining cost, improves security 
and scalability [6]. Blockchain also bring handful of feature and 
its most popular use, cryptocurrency can change how certain 
things like managing children in the house is discussed in next 
section. 
3. APPLICATION 
3.1 Blockchain-Based Smart Incentive for 
Children at Home 
Getting a blockchain as a backbone network to Smart Home 
brings a wealth of features that we cannot achieve with a 
traditional centralized computer network. Business and finance 
are widely common in term of usage of blockchain [15]. It is not 
surprising as Bitcoin, the one which popularizes the blockchain, is 
a finance utilizing blockchain to solve distrust and double 
spending issues written in its white paper by Satoshi Nakamoto 
[10]. Even though, in just 10 years from the launch of Bitcoin, 
cryptocurrency become very popular today and it pave the way of 
future of trusted payment. Although Ethereum blockchain was 
built for decentralized application and smart contract, it is still a 
Token-based blockchain based on Bitcoin and uses POW similar 
to Bitcoin to handle transaction but with improved performance 
and scalability [13]. Blockchain-based Smart Home can abuse this 
strength and token feature instead of directly bringing the same 
Bitcoin or Ethereum money to our home but creating a virtual 
currency for home use only. 
Currency can be created for virtually everything. Usually people 
sees it used as money but what if it can be used as a form of 
incentives. Household with children is hard to manage sometimes. 
Parents need to teach children to be good and discipline. Scolding 
is one way to do it, but it is not a great thing to involve negative 
emotion. There are harmful effects of physical and verbal 
punishment, yet it destroys self-esteem, create anger, interfere 
with learning, and damage the relationship between parent and 
child [16]. Physical punishment in the longer run it tends to 
increase the probability of deviance, including delinquency in 
adolescence and violent crime inside and outside the family as an 
adult [17]. Reward can be seen as the better way to promote a 
child discipline [18]. For example, a child can be forced to do 
some homework to be rewarded with time to spend on their 
favorite television show. This method makes them inspiring and 
motivated to do their work in a good positive way. Blockchain fit 
itself in handling this kind of work incentive for children at home. 
We can make a custom cryptocurrency for children to use to get 
themselves their reward at home and using blockchain, it is 
distributed results in reduced cost which incur when having a 
central hub instead. 
With home devices linked by Ethereum blockchain, the 
foundation for a cryptocurrency is already there. We need to 
create a coin that works as incentive and define how the operation 
work within a blockchain equipped smart home. Figure 3 shows 
an overview of a Blockchain-based Smart Incentive for children 
in home. Every device, children and parents participated in this 
system will have their own wallet to keep the coin called Playcoin. 
We call it Playcoin because it is used by the children to enjoy 
their playtime or past time by watching television or playing video 
games. For this system to work, children should be able to receive 
their coin and spend it where the machine such as television need 
to be able to receive and react to it by allowing usage. Besides that, 
there are two ways for children to receive their Playcoin, by their 
parents and by the machine. 
 
Figure 3. An overview of Smart Incentive operation. 
Starting off with method of receiving Playcoin, the operation is 
almost similar to typical cryptocurrency like Bitcoin and 
Ethereum. Each device in a blockchain keeps track of the account 
balance of each participant. Since each device is a part of 
maintaining blockchain they are automatically having their 
account that can stores coin. Since this is a private blockchain 
runs in a private home, the owner has full authority to setup this 
system. The owner/parents account should be programmed with a 
huge amount of Playcoin when the system is initialized. Doing 
this give the parent the ability to transfer it almost infinity times 
for long term. Parents can use their smartphone to connect to a 
blockchain node (any blockchain-based smart devices) through a 
P2P connection and using their private key stored in their 
smartphone, they can send Playcoin to their children by their 
public key. Children then can use their smartphone with their 
private key to transfer the coin to television when they receive 
coin from their parents. The television need to have a software 
stack installed to achieve this. The parental control software 
running in the television operating system requires check from 
blockchain network on their current account balance. For an 
example, if the children make a transaction to send Playcoin to the 
television, the parental control software need to be able to know 
there is an increase in account balance and authorize the children 
to watch television or otherwise revoke their access if the amount 
is not changed or not enough. Of course, parents will have full 
access with some kind of password protection applied to the 
operating system. Same operation can be applied for the parental 
control software in game console or computer.  
Getting incentives from parents need observation by them and 
sometime parents are not around home for observation. Receiving 
incentives also can be programmed to be automated with smart 
devices around the house as the eye to the children. This is where 
another advantage of blockchain-based personal smart home 
comes into play where information about children inside house is 
protected and secure within the house. With the rise of machine 
learning, surveillance camera can be programed to observe the 
behavior of the children. These cameras can pick up children that 
doing their homework or house work and automate the incentive 
giving process. Smart Contract flexibility and automation [9] is 
crucial in this situation as we can program so that parents can 
52
automatically transfer Playcoin directly to their children when 
their absent. The way that it can be program is if camera says 
child does work, send the child a certain amount of coin. The limit 
that it can send in one day also can be programmed directly in 
order to make sure that the children do not get excess amount of 
work incentive. Figure 4 shows how Smart Contracts helps to 
automate the transferring of Playcoin. Smart contract is 
programmed so that it waits for monitoring device to inform it 
that the children did their homework and sign off a contract to 
transfer Playcoin directly from parent account to the child account 
without authorization of the parents. Moreover, computer 
homework also can be part of this. A software can be program to 
track homework submission which helps to achieve the same 
result using the same Smart Contract which can become another 
alternative to track the children commitment to do their work 
before enjoying their life. 
 
Figure 4. Smart Contract in automate coin transfer. 
4. CONCLUSION 
Blockchain is getting a lot of attention lately because of the rapid 
growth of connected device and cryptocurrency. The huge influx 
of connected device raises the question of security and scalability. 
We proposed a cloud-free personal smart home by leveraging the 
security and privacy by using a blockchain technology. We 
presented how devices communicating and exchanging data using 
blockchain. Smart Contract brings the flexibility in programming 
the blockchain to behave as we like and reduce in complexity in 
setting up a smart home. By eliminating a centralized cloud server, 
we can solve the trust issue on third party and a single point of 
failure at the same time reduce the cost of maintenance. 
Cryptocurrency provides new way to interact with devices at 
home and allows to make policy for children incentive at home. 
Children is rewarded with Playcoin when they done some thing 
good like doing their homework. 
To the best of our knowledge, this research is our first work to 
provide an interesting and useful application of blockchain-based 
smart home technology. This is the foundation for us to 
investigate more about the implementation of the blockchain in 
smart home and its limitation on smart devices. 
5. REFERENCES 
[1] “Industry 4.0: the fourth industrial revolution – guide to 
Industrie 4.0,” i-SCOOP. [Online]. Available: https://www.i-
scoop.eu/industry-4-0. 
[2] “Internet of Things forecast – Ericsson,” 22-May-2018. 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.ericsson.com/cn/en/mobility-report/internet-of-
things-forecast  
[3] Suárez-Albela, M., Fraga-Lamas, P., Fernández-Caramés, 
T.M., Dapena, A.,González-López,M."Home Automation 
System Based on Intelligent Transducer Enablers", in 
Sensors, vol. 16 (10), no. 1595, pp. 1–26, September 2016. 
[4] J. Gubbi, R. Buyya, S. Marusic, and M. Palaniswami, 
“Internet of Things (IoT): A vision, architectural elements, 
and future directions,” Futur. Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 29, 
no. 7, pp. 1645–1660, 2013. 
[5] S. Sicari, A. Rizzardi, L. A. Grieco, and A. Coen-Porisini, 
“Security, privacy and trust in internet of things: The road 
ahead,” Computer Networks, vol. 76, pp. 146–164, 2015. 
[6] A. Dorri, S. S. Kanhere, R. Jurdak, and P. Gauravaram, 
“Blockchain for IoT security and privacy: The case study of 
a smart home,” 2017 IEEE International Conference on 
Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops 
(PerCom Workshops), 2017.  
[7] R. Roman, J. Zhou, and J. Lopez, “On the features and 
challenges of security and privacy in distributed internet of 
things,” Computer Networks, vol. 57, no. 10, pp. 2266–2279, 
2013. 
[8] “Facebook-Cambridge Analytica data scandal,” BBC News. 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.bbc.com/news/topics/c81zyn0888lt/facebook-
cambridge-analytica-data-scandal. 
[9] K. Christidis and M. Devetsikiotis, “Blockchains and Smart 
Contracts for the Internet of Things,” IEEE Access, vol. 4, pp. 
2292–2303, 2016.  
[10] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-peer Electronic Cash 
System,” 2008. 
[11] “Ethereum White Paper,” GitHub, 2014. [Online]. Available: 
https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper.  
[12] “Announcing the Secure Hash Standard,” 01-Aug-2002. 
[Online]. Available: 
http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips/fips180-2/fips180-2.pdf. 
[13] T. M. Fwernandez-Carames and P. Reaga-Lamas, “A 
Review on the Use of Blockchain for the Internet of Things,” 
IEEE Access, 2018.  
[14] S. Sicari, A. Rizzardi, L. A. Grieco, and A. Coen-Porisini, 
“Security, privacy and trust in internet of things: The road 
ahead,” Computer Networks, vol. 76, pp. 146–164, 2015 
[15] M. I. K. R. Lakhani, “The Truth About Blockchain,” Harvard 
Business Review, 06-Mar-2018. [Online]. Available: 
https://hbr.org/2017/01/the-truth-about-blockchain 
[16] "22 Alternatives to Punishment - The Natural Child Project,” 
School is Bad for Children - The Natural Child Project. 
[Online]. Available: 
https://www.naturalchild.org/jan_hunt/22_alternatives.html. 
[17] M. A. Straus, “Discipline and Deviance: Physical 
Punishment of Children and Violence and Other Crime in 
Adulthood,” Social Problems, vol. 38, no. 2, pp. 133–154, 
1991. 
[18] A. F. Taylor, F. E. Kuo, and W. C. Sullivan, “Views Of 
Nature And Self-Discipline: Evidence From Inner City 
Children,” Journal of Environmental Psychology, vol. 22, no. 
1-2, pp. 49–63, 2002. 
 
53