Matrix World - A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse
Matrix World - A Programmable 3D
Multichain Metaverse
Xinyao Sun1,2(B), Xiao Wu2,3, and Shuyi Zhang1
1 Matrix Labs Inc., Vancouver, Canada
{asun,tim}@matrixlabs.org
2 University of Alberta, Multimedia Research Centre, Edmonton, Canada
xinyao1@ualberta.ca
3 WhiteMatrix Tech Ltd., Vancouver, Canada
wuxiao@whitematrix.io
Abstract. Matrix World is a decentralized open virtual world that lets
users interact with immersive 3D applications simultaneously running
on different blockchains. The world consists of Lands, issued as Non-
Fungible Tokens (NFTs), which permanently persist on blockchain net-
works such as Ethereum and Flow. Thus, Matrix Lands are tradable and
transferable via blockchain networks and their owners retain complete
control over the creations on their Lands. These Lands can be bound
to a sandbox in the Matrix Network which has its own compute and
storage resources. These resources allow landowners and creators to gov-
ern the visual appearance, inner properties, and lifecycle logic of the
Land’s creations, ultimately resulting in the production of an immer-
sive 3D application that can operate in perpetuity in the Matrix World
cyberspace. In Matrix World, users can take advantage of standard 3D
open-world features such as building 3D architectures, hosting virtual
meetings, exhibiting digital assets (e.g., NFTs), etc., along with more
advanced functionality such as creating and hosting 3D decentralized
applications (DApps) using Matrix’s built-in creator services and compu-
tational resources. These DApps include 3D games and 3D marketplaces,
among others. Our ultimate goal is to create unlimited possibilities and
opportunities in the metaverse by eliminating the boundary between
blockchains and building a next generation 3D open-world DApp plat-
form on top of Matrix World.
Keywords: Blockchain · Metaverse · Query · 3D · Cyberspace
1 Introduction
The metaverse can be seen as an iterative network of three-dimensional vir-
tual worlds, which are persistent online computer-generated spaces in which
several individuals from disparate physical places can interact in real-time for
work or play, as stated in [4]. [5] discusses in general how technologies have been
enhanced and should be further developed to completely facilitate the functional
c© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
S. Berretti and G.-M. Su (Eds.): ICSM 2022, LNCS 13497, pp. 272–281, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22061-6_20
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-031-22061-6_20&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-22061-6_20
Matrix World – A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse 273
metaverse. Each field has advanced in its own right over the last few decades,
gradually altering people’s lifestyles. The metaverse has recently gained popu-
larity for two primary reasons: 1) as a result of the COIVD-19 pandemic, and
2) as a result of the adoption of blockchain technology [9].
Speaking of open-world games, it is always inevitable to mention Minecraft
[3]. Minecraft offers the freedom for players to build a customized 3D world.
Additionally, it exposes powerful and robust backend interfaces that enable users
to implement their own game or application in that universe. More significantly,
it introduces the Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) concept to the game [2]. As
a creator, you can purchase your own compute resources, namely a Minecraft
server, to run your Minecraft-based minigame. The majority of blockchain-based
3D open-world platforms are inspired in some way by Minecraft, and we have
already seen several well-implemented products [10]. Some of these products have
concentrated on gaming and game creation, others have focused on 3D social
networking and showcasing assets (NFTs), and some have offered a thin layer of
3D visualization while allowing the community to add additional extensions to
enrich their ecosystems [6].
The availability of metaverse-related studies and surveys has increased
over the past few years. However, none of the existing blockchain-based open
worlds have demonstrated the same customization and user experience level as
Minecraft. Despite its obvious potential, blockchain-based research is restricted,
and its widespread adoption for many applications is not yet available [1]. In
other words, none of the current blockchain-based 3D open worlds have pro-
vided a Turing-complete world capable of creating infinite possibilities. A 3D
world built entirely on assets is not a real living Metaverse, but a new revolution
is underway to enrich the community. The transition from a collection of sep-
arate virtual worlds to an interconnected network of 3D virtual worlds, or the
Metaverse, depends on advancements in four areas: immersive realism, ubiquity
of access and identification, interoperability, and scalability [4].
2 Proposed Programmable Multichain Metaverse
2.1 Programmable Objects
We breathe life into Matrix World’s objects by introducing the concept of pro-
grammable objects, known as Matrix Objects, that run on a canonical virtual
machine called the Space Virtual Machine (SVM). The SVM keeps track of
a group of Matrix Objects in one or more Lands and manages each object’s
attributes, appearance, and lifecycle. Meanwhile, users can define custom func-
tionalities to customize the behavior of these Matrix Objects. Using the Matrix
Object and Scene Editor, authorized creators can easily program the actions
of their Matrix Objects and create complicated 3D applications by combining
multiple programmed/scripted Matrix Objects which can then interact with one
another. As illustrated in Fig. 1, the ideal SVM enables hierarchical objects to
operate jointly by following predetermined scripted operations. The requested
SVM CPU and memory capacity dictates the maximum number of objects and
274 X. Sun et al.
the complexity of application logic. At the same time, the Matrix Lands deter-
mine the virtual physical space in the Matrix World.
Fig. 1. Space virtual machine and the hierarchy of matrix objects
Additionally, multiple SVMs can connect to form a Matrix Network, as shown
in Fig. 2. Each SVM is responsible for operating a Scene on a single Land or Space
(a collection of merged Lands) that provides various features similar to a game
server. Not only may creators construct 3D applications on a single SVM, but
also cross-SVM for multiscene applications.
As defined earlier, Matrix World is a Turing-complete metaverse, which
means that each object can be programmed as a living entity. Additionally, we
provide developers and creators with tools and services to aid in the production
of Scenes and DApps. Thousands of 3D applications will operate simultaneously
in the form of fully programmable objects and will be decentralized. That is how
Matrix World integrates apps into the actual metaverse.
Matrix World – A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse 275
Fig. 2. Applications in matrix network
2.2 Multichain Connectivity
The Matrix World technology facilitates the maintenance of identities across
several blockchains. The system currently supports Ethereum and Flow, but it
can easily be expanded to incorporate new blockchains as its persistent and con-
sensus layers. Moreover, creators can also connect Matrix Objects to external
smart contracts running on multiple blockchain networks. For instance, game
developers and content creators can build a 3D Uniswap ATM by crafting its
appearance and defining the action that invokes Uniswap’s swap function in
Ethereum. Futhermore, they can place such an ATM in a virtual NBA Top
Shot museum that features a 3D video gallery powered by the Flow network.
In addition to blockchain networks, Matrix World can also connect to external
services. In the first instance, we propose integrating NFT marketplaces on mul-
tiple blockchains such as OpenSea, Rarible, MyNFT, as well as storage protocols
like IPFS and Arweave, and streaming services such as Twitch and YouTube.
To this end, creators can directly connect to the aforementioned services using
both programmable 3D objects and API endpoints. Notably, the entire sys-
tem is designed to be extensible, allowing for the continuous addition of new
276 X. Sun et al.
services to enrich the world. Matrix World’s multichain connectivity enables the
creation of unique immersive social networks. Users can experience a world with
unlimited possibilities by connecting to multichain DApps and other resources.
Matrix World will bolster interoperability among multichain DApps and stream-
line communication across several metaverses.
2.3 Architecture
The Matrix World system is illustrated in Fig. 3, which consists of 3 layers:
Frontend, Backend, and External Services.
Frontend: The frontend of Matrix World is a public-facing web or mobile client.
It contains: 1) The Identity Client, a multichain identity client that users will
use to log in and get authorized to access Matrix World’s services via their
blockchain credentials (cold wallet or hot-wallet services). 2) The Content Ren-
dering Client, a WebGL-based client that renders the visual appearances of 3D
Matrix Objects in the browser. 3) The Interaction Client, the client responsible
for interacting with Matrix Object models managed by the Matrix Network. The
Matrix Network routes the signal to a specific SVM to perform the update in
the backend.
Backend: The backend is responsible for two major data workflows, as shown in
Fig. 3. The first is synchronizing the data from external services like blockchain
networks (Ethereum [11] and Flow [12]) and other centralized services (e.g.,
OpenSea [8]). These data will be collected in the Matrix World state and aggre-
gated events will flow to the Event Bus and be subscribed to by the frontend
clients. The second workflow consists of the instructions input from the frontend.
These data will stream into the Matrix Network, update the world state, and
trigger external service calls.
A Matrix Object is the minimal unit of Matrix World as illustrated in Fig. 4.
It has default properties, such as its physics, textures, 3D transformations, and
attached NFT media. Creators can also define custom attributes for Matrix
Objects via scripts or the Editor UI. Matrix Objects are programmable so that
the user can define their lifecycles and action functions. Action functions will be
triggered when an interaction signal is sent from the client and lifecycle functions
will be triggered when the Matrix Object’s state changes. These functions can
have multiple purposes like updating the 3D visuals, transforming and making
payments, invoking another Matrix Object’s action, and performing external
calls. Matrix Objects can also subscribe to events from the Event Bus.
The Space Virtual Machine (SVM) is a sandbox server that manages all of
the Matrix Objects’ states and lifecycles for a specific Matrix Space (Fig. 1). Its
computation and storage resources are equal to the sum of the resources of its
Lands. Matrix is currently hosting all SVMs ourselves, but we plan to release
self-hosted SVMs for landowners for decentralized land management and DApp
hosting.
Matrix World – A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse 277
Fig. 3. High-level architecture
278 X. Sun et al.
Fig. 4. Matrix object
The Matrix Network is a distributed network consisting of applications built
on top of SVMs (Fig. 2). Landowners can build their DApps by running SVMs
bound to their Spaces. This design is inspired by Ethereum and allows all SVM
public functions to call each other. Our goal is to make the Matrix Network a
3D DApp platform
2.4 Services
Convenient Tooling for Creators: We intend to release a collection of tools
that will enable anyone to construct 3D objects in Matrix World. The first tool
will be a cloud-based What You See Is What You Get (WYSIWYG) model
editor that allows users to alter a 3D model’s geometry, material, lighting, and
shaders [7]. Along with the model editor, we also plan to include a Scene editor,
which will allow creators to import the numerous 3D objects they have built
into a Scene or directly use other external resources to ramp up and augment
Matrix World – A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse 279
a Scene. Apart from handcrafting models from scratch, the we are also working
on an automated tool that will enable users to generate Scenes using pre-defined
blueprint templates. Additionally, creators can offer their blueprints to Matrix
World’s marketplace to accelerate the building process for other players while
also monetizing their works.
NFT Ecosystem: Matrix World will offer users convenient functions to import
NFTs into the metaverse. These functions will allow users to directly import 2D
images, 3D models, videos, audios, and other multimedia NFTs into the 3D
world. All imported NFTs will be transformed into Matrix Objects with original
appearances (e.g., a 2D image will be transformed into a 3D picture with a
frame).
Since each of the NFTs imported into Matrix World becomes a Matrix
Object, creators can program the loaded NFTs to make them more functional.
For instance, if the creator is a game maker, he or she can construct playable
characters for a mini-game using Loot NFTs and create a mini-game using these
characters. On the other hand, if the creator is an artist that knows about pro-
gramming, he or she can convert a static image into animation by applying a
dynamic animating filter.
Apart from importing existing NFTs, Matrix World is capable of creating
NFTs from Matrix Objects. As a result, Matrix World will have a first-party 3D
marketplace that will connect to Ethereum and Flow marketplaces. With a few
clicks, users will be able to easily publish NFTs from Matrix Objects.
3 Case Study
3.1 Immersive 3D DApps
Matrix World’s development tooling and programming language will allow users
to develop immersive 3D applications. Creators can define 3D objects’ shapes,
attach materials and textures, create lighting, add transformation functions,
attach scripted and AI-based behaviors, make payments, invoke external ser-
vices, etc. The players can go into the 3D NFT buildings to check details such as
textures. They can finish shopping in the immersive marketplace without exter-
nal links, bring the NFT home, and use an auto construction code pack to see
the NFT building auto-build on their Land.
3.2 Programmable NFTs
Matrix World allows users to directly import 2D images, 3D models, videos,
audios, and other multimedia NFTs into the 3D world with convenient func-
tions. Each imported NFT will be transformed into a Matrix Object with an
original appearance (e.g., a 2D image will be transformed into a 3D picture with
a frame). Since all of the NFTs imported into Matrix World become Matrix
Objects, creators can program the loaded NFTs to make them more functional.
280 X. Sun et al.
For instance, if the creator is a game maker, he or she can construct playable
characters for a mini-game using Loot NFTs and create a mini-game using these
characters. On the other hand, if the creator is an artist that knows about pro-
gramming, he or she can convert a static image into an animation by applying
a dynamic animating filter.
3.3 Cross-Chain Socializing and Trading
Matrix World is a metaverse space that connects multiple blockchain networks
and services. It provides a place for different players from various blockchain
networks to gather and meet.
1. Cross-Chain Conferences and Meetings: Matrix World’s public social facilities
and buildings can authorize people with identities from different blockchain
networks to attend meetings and conferences. We believe cross-chain commu-
nications will be more productive than single-chain ones.
2. Cross-Chain Advertising: Brands that want cross-chain influence will find
Matrix World to be the best fit for them. They can attract potential customers
from multiple blockchain networks by posting advertisements in Matrix
World’s multichain visible public area.
3. Cross-Chain Trading: The Matrix World will develop a mechanism to allow
cross-chain trading and payment to increase the liquidity of the assets (e.g.,
NFTs and in-game objects) in the Matrix World.
4 Conclusions
Matrix World is an open virtual world that empowers users to build 3D immer-
sive applications on top of different blockchains. The world is made up of Lands,
which are issued as Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs). In Matrix World, users can
build 3D architectures, host virtual meetings, exhibit NFTs, as well as create
their own 3D decentralized applications using Matrix Wolrd’s built-in computa-
tion resources. Matrix World is designed as a 3D DApp platform. The Matrix
Network consists of a number of SVMs, each of which is responsible for running
a Scene on a specific Land that offers various functionalities. Matrix World will
provide creators with development and automation tools to facilitate Scene and
DApp development. We hope that in the future, thousands of 3D applications
will operate concurrently on Matrix World’s DApp platform.
References
1. Bolger, R.K.: Finding wholes in the metaverse: posthuman mystics as agents of
evolutionary contextualization. Religions 12(9), 768 (2021)
2. Callaghan, N.: Investigating the role of minecraft in educational learning environ-
ments. Educ. Media Int. 53(4), 244–260 (2016)
3. Cipollone, M., Schifter, C.C., Moffat, R.A.: Minecraft as a creative tool: a case
study. Int. J. Game-Based Learn. (IJGBL) 4(2), 1–14 (2014)
Matrix World – A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse 281
4. Dionisio, J.D.N., Burns III, W.G., Gilbert, R.: 3D virtual worlds and the metaverse:
current status and future possibilities. ACM Comput. Surv. (CSUR) 45(3), 1–38
(2013)
5. Duan, H., Li, J., Fan, S., Lin, Z., Wu, X., Cai, W.: Metaverse for social good:
a university campus prototype. In: Proceedings of the 29th ACM International
Conference on Multimedia, pp. 153–161 (2021)
6. Gadekallu, T.R., et al.: Blockchain for the metaverse: a review. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2203.09738 (2022)
7. Guo, H., Mao, N., Yuan, X.: WYSIWYG (what you see is what you get) volume
visualization. IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Grap. 17(12), 2106–2114 (2011)
8. Kiong, L.V.: DeFi, NFT and GameFi made easy: a beginner’s guide to understand-
ing and investing in DeFi. NFT and GameFi Projects, Liew Voon Kiong (2021)
9. Koo, H.: Training in lung cancer surgery through the metaverse, including extended
reality, in the smart operating room of Seoul National University Bundang Hospi-
tal, Korea. J. Educ. Eval. Health Prof. 18, 33 (2021)
10. Ryskeldiev, B., Ochiai, Y., Cohen, M., Herder, J.: Distributed metaverse: creating
decentralized blockchain-based model for peer-to-peer sharing of virtual spaces for
mixed reality applications. In: Proceedings of the 9th Augmented Human Interna-
tional Conference, pp. 1–3 (2018)
11. Wood, G., et al.: Ethereum: a secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger.
Ethereum Proj. Yellow Paper 151(2014), 1–32 (2014)
12. Zaucha, T., Agur, C.: Newly minted: non-fungible tokens and the commodification
of fandom. New Media Soc. 1–22 (2022)
http://arxiv.org/abs/2203.09738
	Matrix World - A Programmable 3D Multichain Metaverse
	1 Introduction
	2 Proposed Programmable Multichain Metaverse
	2.1 Programmable Objects
	2.2 Multichain Connectivity
	2.3 Architecture
	2.4 Services
	3 Case Study
	3.1 Immersive 3D DApps
	3.2 Programmable NFTs
	3.3 Cross-Chain Socializing and Trading
	4 Conclusions
	References