Network Forensics in a BYOD Environment
XXX-X-XXXX-XXXX-X/XX/$XX.00 ©20XX IEEE 
Network Forensics in a BYOD Environment 
 
Junias N. UUSHONA  
Computer Science Department  
Namibia University of Science and 
Technology 
Windhoek, Namibia 
ujunias@gmail.com 
Attlee M. GAMUNDANI 
Computer Science Department 
Namibia University of Science and 
Technology 
Windhoek, Namibia 
agamundani@nust.na
Victor I. NDEVAETELA 
Computer Science Department 
Namibia University of Science and 
Technology 
Windhoek, Namibia 
vndevaetela@yahoo.com 
 
Endard T. TOIVO 
Computer Science Department 
Namibia University of Science and 
Technology 
Windhoek, Namibia 
ednardtoivo98@gmail.com 
  
 
Abstract— The use of mobile devices in digital network 
environments are the main drivers of the Bring Your Own 
Device (BYOD) concept.  As such, the need to monitor the 
exchange of data between mobile devices connected to a network 
to improve network security becomes paramount. Therefore, 
network administrators can use network forensics to monitor 
data packet exchange and enable easy collection of digital 
evidence in their network. This paper looks at how to perform 
Network forensics on mobile devices, open challenges and 
propose recommendations to challenges in network forensics.  
Guided by a qualitative review of existing literature, a scoping 
review of network forensics is provided, leading to the proposed 
generic approach for BYOD forensics considering mobile 
devices.  From our review, it was apparent that, more scientific 
research needs to be done towards availing novel solutions 
towards BYOD network challenges. The recommendations 
from this paper are that organisations could try to implement 
honeypots technology, cryptographic blockchain methods and 
sound BYOD Management techniques and approaches. 
Keywords— mobile devices, network forensic, data packet, 
digital evidence, BYOD network. 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Network forensics refers to the investigation and analysis 
of data to determine the source of network attacks with a focus 
on collecting evidence that will support admissibility of 
evidence in the courts of law. Network data is collected from 
network sites and equipment for analysis. Network forensics 
is used for monitoring, preventing, and analysing possible 
cyberattacks. Identification, Preservation, Collection, 
Examination, Analysis, and Presentation and Incident 
Response are the seven steps that are involved in a Network 
Forensics examination [1]. Mobile devices are used for 
personal communication and for organisational use, and most 
mobile devices have Internet access [2]. Mobile devices can 
be used as a source of Potential Digital Evidence (PDE) in a 
crime. Mobile devices contain personal information about 
individuals that use them, such as passwords, photographs, 
communication logs (history), location logs and other useful 
data. The information contained in mobile devices can be the 
cause of a crime, for example when they are used to create and 
publicise sensitive information or steal intellectual property. 
Digital evidence examination in mobile devices has become 
one of the largest growth areas in the field [2]. 
According to [3] Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) refers 
to the consumerisation of information technology (IT), in 
which employees utilize their own devices to connect to 
organisation networks. BYOD helps organisations to save cost 
of purchasing devices for every employee and increases 
employee engagement and productivity. Implementing 
BYOD increases businesses productivity and improves 
business agility and collaboration. Many organisations have 
progressed towards a direction of understanding that private 
mobile devices are an essential part of employees’ daily life. 
As BYOD connects external devices in the organisation’s 
wireless network structure, there is an increase in cyber-
security risks and data leakage incidents observed as well as 
performing malicious activities. This is led by devices that are 
not following the standard security practices, not managed and 
which may not follow the procedures of defence against 
malicious content [3]. 
This paper provides readers with an overview of BYOD 
networks, challenges, and recommendations on how to 
mitigate the challenges in BYOD network. It also covered the 
aspect of network forensics in BYOD networks. The main 
contribution of this paper is a scoping review of the subject of 
network forensics and the various forms it takes in a BYOD 
environment. By proposing a generic BYOD network 
forensics approach, this paper created a foundation for future 
work in this same domain. 
II. REVIEW METHODOLOGY 
A qualitative review was conducted mainly using the 
Science Direct Database. The “Network Forensics” AND 
“Bring Your Own Device” OR “BYOD” AND “Mobile 
Device” keyword searches on the Science Direct Database 
were used. The search period for the literature reviewed was 
not limited to any year, the rationale for that was the thin 
literature on the subject. Running the search query as: 
("Network Forensics" AND " Bring Your Own Device" OR 
"BYOD" AND “Mobile Device”), only retained 7 search 
results.  After forward and backward tracking we added most 
of the articles referenced in this paper.  
 
III. OVERVIEW OF A BRING YOUR OWN DEVICE NETWORK 
The practise of employees bringing and using their 
personal electronic devices to connect to institutions' networks 
and access work systems and potentially confidential or 
sensitive data is referred to as BYOD. These devices include 
personal computers, tablets, smartphones, and USB drives 
These devices are used by employees to access their emails, 
review, and edit documents, systems and to perform enterprise 
related tasks. In this section we will look at an overview of 
BYOD networks and how the usage of electronic devices such 
20
21
 3
rd
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l M
ul
tid
is
ci
pl
in
ar
y 
In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
 a
nd
 E
ng
in
ee
rin
g 
C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
(I
M
IT
EC
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
17
49
-5
/2
1/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IM
IT
EC
52
92
6.
20
21
.9
71
46
68
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
as personal computers and mobile devices can be controlled 
and implemented in BYOD network environments. We will 
also look at the kind of digital evidence network forensic 
investigators can get from the BYOD network environment. 
A. BYOD Networks 
In BYOD networks according to [4] institutions may 
choose to give permission to BYOD electronic devices to 
connect directly to their networks within an institutions' 
premises, such as a wireless network and intranets within the 
institution. Employees who want to bring their own devices 
into the office and utilise institution networks should first find 
out if the company allows it, and if so, which networks the 
BYOD electronic devices can use. Many institutions build up 
a special BYOD network, usually wireless, to which BYOD 
electronic devices can connect directly. Without explicit 
approval, teleworkers should not connect any BYOD devices 
to an institution internal network.  
As the usage of BYOD electronic devices increases in an 
institution’s network the same goes for the threats to the 
network security, systems, and data. In a BYOD network 
environment to mitigate the security threat there are a few 
measures and technologies such as the use of BYOD device 
policies, central software-based policy control, monitoring of 
connected devices, network traffic monitoring, restricting the 
installation and access to certain applications (app 
management) while on the network, etc, which can be 
implemented [5]. 
B. BYOD Network Risks 
According to [6] more and more malware attacks are 
targeting mobile devices and with the expansion in BYOD the 
growth of malicious software also goes with it [7]. Attacks 
such as Denial of services (DDoS) on the institution networks 
and assets are and can be conducted through the vulnerabilities 
on mobile devices [6].  As further indicated by [6] that since 
these devices are freely used in many locations and connected 
to many other networks that are not in the institution’s control 
that can expose them to, and devices can also get lost which 
can lead to data loss and leakage. Some of the employees have 
no understanding of the risks that they are exposed to and are 
unaware on how to protect their devices from security threats. 
In BYOD environments, it is crucial that the employees 
adhere and comply with the institution’s Information Security 
Policy (ISP) which provides direction and support on 
information security. Even though there are ISPs in place, 
literature states employees do not follow these policies and 
they are the main vulnerability to network security threats [8]. 
Network forensics is very important in overcoming the 
vulnerability above. Network forensics in BYOD networks 
enticement can be aided by some of the following technical 
measures such as Mobile Content Management (MCM), 
Network Access Control (NAC), Mobile Device Management 
(MDM), Mobile Application Manager (MAM), Access 
Control and Monitoring Mechanism (ACMM), Enterprise 
Sandbox (ES), Desktop/Application Virtualisation (D/AV), 
Centralise, Mobile Antivirus (MA), etc [7]. 
C. Digital Evidence in BYOD Network Environment 
Like any other network environment, the BYOD network 
environment monitors and collect huge amount of data about 
user activities in the network, system etc. Those log file 
contains information of the activities that happened on the 
network. In a BYOD network environment, you find evidence 
from log files, registers, cache, routing table, user machines, 
temporary file systems, disks, remote logging and monitoring 
data, firewall logs, system logs, sniffer tools etc. 
IV. NETWORK FORENSICS IN A BYOD ENVIRONMENT 
Accessing business structure by utilising BYOD devices 
in hand by staff members, dealers, or business associates 
creates a major concern regarding business data protection for 
most organisations, also the need to separate employees’ 
personal data for privacy [9]. Due to exposure, there is a 
growth in cyber-attacks from time to time. BYOD technology 
need a digital forensic framework to provide security [10]. 
According to [11], the major concern in BYOD is 
constituted by data theft, cybersecurity and shadow IT. 
Connecting to the Internet and installing malware in BYOD 
can also lead to serious security risk. Mitigation should not be 
overlooked when implementing the BYOD legal approach 
[12]. Each phase of the BYOD security policy must be in line 
with protecting the internal network, information, and 
application since BYOD system has become a huge security 
risk [9].There are several tools and established mechanisms 
for BYOD, and these include: 
A. Network Access Control 
According to [13], mobile devices link to collaborated 
networks remotely after different locations at any time and 
that places the organisation’s system and complementary 
contents at risk e.g., data. Hence lacking suitable safety, 
perpetrators can impersonate legitimate employees, interrupt 
company information, and illegally intrude into the networks 
and services thus gaining illegal access. To counter this risk, 
[14] stated that network access control (NAC) is the security 
mechanism that can be employed to control devices that 
connect to the corporation’s network and try to provide secure 
and controlled authentication and encryption security control. 
It is also capable of integrating mobile device management 
tools into the network infrastructure hence providing 
management to the network services and network control. 
B. Mobile Device Management (MDM) 
Mobile device management is considered as the technical 
part of BYOD security. [15]discussed the adoption of BYOD 
in organisations through demonstrating a couple of BYOD 
security mechanisms including mobile device management. 
Mobile device management works to achieve the BYOD 
security by providing organisations with devices enrolment 
into a single cloud-based server, enforcement of password and 
email policies, and encryption of the enrolled devices. Mobile 
device management installs and uninstalls applications on the 
device as well as enforces policies for the utilisation of 
installed applications. Therefore, mobile device management 
in organisations is mostly utilised to wipe out device in case 
of theft and loss [14]. 
C. Enterprise Mobility Management 
Enterprise Mobility Management (EMM) according to 
[14], is an enhancement of Mobile Device Management 
(MDM). It manages the devices, data and even applications. 
Enterprise mobility management provides containerisation of 
organisational data and applications. This means that 
applications from different containers can communicate with 
each other, but their data storage is different which provides 
some data security to the organisation’s data. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
D. Data Encryption 
The objective of encryption is to provide data security for 
the data residing in the devices as well as data shared over 
networks [15]. Encryption is a foundation of BYOD security. 
Encoded VPNs utilising IPsec offer the privacy and integrity 
of data in motion, yet this may leave data at rest unencrypted. 
Since employees store sensitive data in their devices, [16] 
advised using Password-Based Encryption (PBE) to secure 
users’ data and the users have the capability of allowing PBE 
of data by setting up an encryption password. The study 
conducted by [16] introduced the sidekick system, a system 
using wearable devices for Encryption Key Management 
(EKM). 
Both the device, data and the network need to be encrypted 
and for Wi-Fi, normally Wi-Fi Protected Access (WAP), Wi- 
Fi Protected Access II (WAP2) and Wired Equivalent Privacy 
(WEP) of which WAP2 is considered the most secure. 
E. Malware Detection and Analysis 
The increase in the usage of the mobile phone has fuelled 
the development of a lot of applications that help users to 
perform their daily activities therefore, the protection of these 
apps against malware invasion is a necessity [17]. With the 
advent of machine learning, artificial intelligence and deep 
learning, malware analysis can be automated. 
Machine learning classifiers are used to detect malicious 
apps using users’ authorisations, keyword libraries and strings 
from other records of applications [18]. On the other hand, 
[17]applied a dynamic malware detection technique to save 
the run time system calling numbers of mobile apps and used 
a fixed method to analyse the data for malware detection at a 
great detection server on the android applications. This 
approach can assist BYOD organisations in evaluating the 
maliciousness of the apps before installing them. 
F. Data Leakage/Loss Prevention 
According to [19], employees constitute most of the data 
breaches of which most of them are recorded as being 
intentional. In this digital world, organisations are working 
with an excess of data that includes customer information, line 
of work, price lists, trading procedures and purchase plans, 
this information is inclined to leakage to competitors, 
criminals and other individuals through communication 
means such as email, and mobile devices that are accessing 
Internet. Data leakage can harm an organisation’s brand and 
reputation, it can be expensive and reduces reliance [19]. 
Noted by [20] Zoom user critical data during forensic analysis 
could be found in plaintext, signalling data protection 
concerns. 
G. Virtual Private Network 
A VPN utilises authentication together with encryption on 
the procedure to offer a secured connection through an 
insecure network, normally the Internet. VPNs are commonly 
cheaper than real private networks, but they depend on the 
same encryption and authentication system. The encryption 
can be performed by firewall software or perhaps by routers. 
The IP level also known as IPsec is the common mechanism 
procedure used for this purpose [21]. It is important to use a 
VPN to create a secure channel from network gadget to the 
corporate network in advance before establishing some 
internal services [13]. 
V. IMPLEMENTATION OF NETWORK FORENSICS IN BYOD 
In some of the BYOD environments, Digital Forensic 
readiness is implemented using honeypot technology. 
According to [22] “Honey Pot Systems are defined as trap 
servers or systems, setup to gather information regarding an 
attacker or intruder into your system” (p1). 
In Forensics Readiness Approach (FRA), honeypots are 
deployed to act as decoy agent by collecting logs that can be 
used as Potential Digital Evidence (PDE) in forensics [10]. Its 
further stated that the monitoring and collecting of honeyed 
Logs for forensics readiness purpose in BYOD network 
environment should be designed and implemented in 
accordance with the Service Level Agreements (SLAs) which 
specify on how the logging process should be conducted. In 
BYOD network environments there should be compliance 
policies that will be able to direct users regarding network 
activity monitoring in the institution. Furthermore, employees 
should be made aware of the crucial roles they play while 
connected to the institution’s network through their BYOD 
devices [22]. 
Honeypots will help prevent attacks by slowing down or 
stopping automated attacks and deterring human attacks. 
Honey pots help in fight attacks by devoting attentions to 
activities that are not causing halt to the institution’s operation 
while allowing the institution to respond and mitigate or block 
the attack. In network forensics, honeypots address many 
problems associated with traditional Intrusion Detection 
Systems (IDS) such as false positives, and their lack of ability 
to detect new types of zero-day attacks thus providing early 
detection of attacks and detecting insider attacks [21]. 
VI. OPEN CHALLENGES 
A challenge in Network forensics for BYOD networks is 
to first ensure that the environment is adequate to the forensic 
needs. For an investigation to be successful, it must be 
equipped with infrastructure that ensures that there is 
necessary data for a full investigation to be carried out. 
Designing a BYOD network is a complex task due to the many 
possibilities that exist. The following is a brief description of 
some of the challenges: 
A. Data Analysis 
A significant challenge presented is analysis of the data 
collected and the output data that is used in the decision- 
making process. The analysis step is in many ways difficult 
because of the complexity of the network environment and the 
amount as well as diversity of the data used. New innovative 
measures are required to help researchers analyse the data. 
These measures are to allow the use of field tools such as data 
mining and information visualization. 
B. Integrity 
Integrity checking of the evidence and examination of 
network events in network forensic investigations. This 
challenge is mainly because of no support provided for the 
forensic activities between evidence items and examiners. 
C. Lack of Awareness 
Awareness is critically a vital component of any BYOD 
program. Failure to be alert or observant of the surrounding 
leads to incidents in a BYOD network and any other network. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
VII. NETWORK FORENSICS IN A BYOD ENVIRONMENT 
Based on the review we did, honeypots, cryptographic 
blockchain and BYOD management stood out to be ideal for 
network forensics in a BYOD Environment. 
A. Honeypots 
The technology of honeypot has been explored to detect 
threats in BYOD infrastructure in 2016. According to [23]–
[25]the definition can thus be coined as  “a honeypot as a 
decoy that is put on a network to lure attackers”. Honeypots 
exist as Virtual Machines that are designed as a real machine 
which can pretend to be an entire running system. Honeypots 
are also able to deceive attackers who are trying to intrude a 
network. A honeypot can be recommended for analysis of the 
data collected to produce information that can be used in the 
decision-making process. 
B. Cryptographic Blockchain Method 
The cryptographic blockchain authentication process has 
been studied where the record- keeping system has been used 
for secure authentication of BYOD users. Cryptographic 
Blockchain method can be recommended to solve the 
traceability of BYOD devices. 
C. BYOD Management 
BYOD management is a significant aspect that is 
responsible with provisioning control services to [26] the 
users of BYOD devices. BYOD administrator can control, 
assign, and provide services within an organisation. The 
employees can be authorised to run a service using a specific 
device that is connected to BYOD network. It can be 
recommended to address integrity as well as lack of awareness 
challenges. 
D. Proposed setup for a BYOD Mobile Forensic Ready 
Environment 
As depicted in Figure 1, a simplified approach is to 
consider building a BYOD Mobile Forensics Ready 
Environment (MFRE) which provides a secure layer to your 
core corporate network. Any mobile devices that are supposed 
to interact with your corporate network are not supposed to 
directly have access to the core network.  The Network 
forensics activities therefore are setup to monitor and control 
the set Mobile Forensics Ready Environment (MFRE).  
The MFRE can be setup in such a way that it incorporates 
the BYOD Management, the respective monitoring and 
evaluation technologies from firewalls to Intrusion Detection 
Systems. Inside the MFRE, the Forensic Readiness 
architecture can also be embedded where the Honeypots can 
be configured and the respective forensic database.  As such, 
any relevant policies are supposed to be enforced at this layer. 
We hope implementation of this setup would reduce 
vulnerabilities that could be propagated to your core network. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: BYOD Mobile Forensics ready setup 
 
VIII. CONCLUSION 
 
This paper was able to identify the impact mobile devices 
in a BYOD network and explore some of the open challenges 
thereof. The challenges involve data analysis of the collected 
data, integrity checking and the lack of awareness in BYOD 
networks. As a result, the increase in BYOD networks within 
organisations means that administrators must utilise network 
forensics in their networks to help fight the increased potential 
of attacks and security threats. Threats such as data leakage, 
DDoS are on the rise in BYOD network. Solutions such as 
Network Access Control, BYOD Management, Data 
Encryption, honeypots etc can be utilised to mitigate the 
effects of the attacks and improve the security of BYOD 
networks. The MFRE was a simplified representation which 
we presented in this paper. The MFRE in Figure 1, can be 
explored further by the research community, as its main 
rationale was to provide a basic building block for BYOD 
Mobile Device Forensics setup in a corporate network 
environment.  
ACKNOWLEDGMENT  
We sincerely appreciate the financial support rendered 
from the Computer Science Department and the Faculty of 
Computing and Informatics for registering for the IMITEC 
conference. For also providing a conducive research 
environment, we extend our gratitude to the management at 
the Namibia University of Science and Technology. 
REFERENCES 
[1] A. Jones and S. Vidalis, “Rethinking Digital 
Forensics,” Annals of Emerging Technologies in 
Computing, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 41–53, 2019, doi: 
10.33166/aetic.2019.02.005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 BYOD 
Mobile Forensics 
Ready Environment 
(MFRE) 
 
Network Forensics  
(Tools/Methods/Approaches) 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[2] G. Gogolin, “Digital Forensics Explained,” Digital 
Forensics Explained, vol. 0, 2012, doi: 
10.1201/b13689. 
[3] B. Tokuyoshi, “The security implications of 
BYOD,” Network Security, vol. 2013, no. 4, pp. 12–
13, 2013. 
[4] M. P. Souppaya and K. A. Scarfone, “User’s Guide 
to Telework and Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) 
Security,” NIST Special Publication, vol. 800, p. 
114, 2016, doi: 10.6028/NIST.SP.800-114r1. 
[5] N. Zahadat, P. Blessner, T. Blackburn, and B. A. 
Olson, “BYOD security engineering: A framework 
and its analysis,” Computers and Security, vol. 55, 
pp. 81–99, 2015, doi: 10.1016/j.cose.2015.06.011. 
[6] R. Palanisamy, A. A. Norman, and M. L. M. Kiah, 
“Compliance with Bring Your Own Device security 
policies in organizations: A systematic literature 
review,” Computers & Security, p. 101998, 2020. 
[7] C. Z. Tu, J. Adkins, and G. Y. Zhao, “Complying 
with BYOD security policies: A moderation model 
based on protection motivation theory,” Journal of 
the Midwest Association for Information Systems 
(JMWAIS), vol. 1, pp. 11–28, 2019. 
[8] T. Sommestad, H. Karlzén, and J. Hallberg, “The 
theory of planned behavior and information security 
policy compliance,” Journal of Computer 
Information Systems, 2017. 
[9] G. Lykou, A. Anagnostopoulou, and D. Gritzalis, 
“Smart airport cybersecurity: Threat mitigation and 
cyber resilience controls,” Sensors, vol. 19, no. 1, p. 
19, 2019. 
[10] V. R. Kebande, N. M. Karie, and H. S. Venter, “A 
generic Digital Forensic Readiness model for 
BYOD using honeypot technology,” 2016 IST-
Africa Conference, IST-Africa 2016, pp. 1–12, 2016, 
doi: 10.1109/ISTAFRICA.2016.7530590. 
[11] M. I. Ali and S. Kaur, “Next-Generation Digital 
Forensic Readiness BYOD Framework,” Security 
and Communication Networks, vol. 2021, 2021. 
[12] M. Ratchford, P. Wang, and R. O. Sbeit, “BYOD 
security risks and mitigations,” in Information 
Technology-New Generations, Springer, 2018, pp. 
193–197. 
[13] C. Vorakulpipat, S. Sirapaisan, E. 
Rattanalerdnusorn, and V. Savangsuk, “A Policy-
Based Framework for Preserving Confidentiality in 
BYOD Environments: A Review of Information 
Security Perspectives,” Security and 
Communication Networks, vol. 2017, pp. 1–11, 
2017, doi: 10.1155/2017/2057260. 
[14] B. Alotaibi and H. Almagwashi, “A Review of 
BYOD Security Challenges , Solutions and Policy 
Best Practices .,” 2018 1st International Conference 
on Computer Applications & Information Security 
(ICCAIS), pp. 1–6, 2018. 
[15] A. M. French, C. Guo, and J. P. Shim, “Current 
status, issues, and future of bring your own device 
(BYOD),” Communications of the Association for 
Information Systems, vol. 35, no. 1, p. 10, 2014. 
[16] I. Muslukhov, S. T. Sun, P. Wijesekera, Y. Boshmaf, 
and K. Beznosov, “Decoupling data-at-rest 
encryption and smartphone locking with wearable 
devices,” Pervasive and Mobile Computing, vol. 32, 
pp. 26–34, 2016, doi: 10.1016/j.pmcj.2016.06.016. 
[17] F. Tong and Z. Yan, “A hybrid approach of mobile 
malware detection in Android,” J. Parallel Distrib. 
Comput, vol. 103, pp. 22–31, 2017, doi: 
10.1016/j.jpdc.2016.10.012. 
[18] Z. U. Rehman et al., “Machine learning-assisted 
signature and heuristic-based detection of malwares 
in Android devices,” Computers and Electrical 
Engineering, vol. 69, pp. 828–841, 2018, doi: 
10.1016/j.compeleceng.2017.11.028. 
[19] B. Hauer, “Data and information leakage prevention 
within the scope of information security,” IEEE 
Access, vol. 3, pp. 2554–2565, 2015, doi: 
10.1109/ACCESS.2015.2506185. 
[20] A. Mahr, M. Cichon, S. Mateo, C. Grajeda, and I. 
Baggili, “Zooming into the pandemic! A forensic 
analysis of the Zoom Application,” Forensic Science 
International: Digital Investigation, vol. 36, Mar. 
2021, doi: 10.1016/j.fsidi.2021.301107. 
[21] W. Stallings, “Network Security Essentials: 
Applications and Standards, ser. Always learning.” 
Pearson, 2013. 
[22] E. S. Padda, E. S. Gupta, E. Apoorva, E. Lofty, and 
E. A. Kaur, “Honeypot: A security tool in intrusion 
detection,” International Journal of Advanced 
Engineering, Management and Science, vol. 2, no. 5, 
p. 239437, 2016. 
[23] L. Spitzner, Honeypots: tracking hackers. Addison-
Wesley Longman Publishing Co., Inc., 2002. 
[24] L. Spitzner, “The honeynet project: Trapping the 
hackers,” IEEE Security & Privacy, vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 
15–23, 2003. 
[25] L. Spitzner, “Hosus (honeypot surveillance system),” 
login: Magazine of Usenix and Sage, vol. 27, pp. 
2002–2012, 2002. 
[26] D. Li, W. Peng, W. Deng, and F. Gai, “A blockchain-
based authentication and security mechanism for 
IoT,” in 2018 27th International Conference on 
Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN), 
2018, pp. 1–6. 
  
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.