Proposal on NFT Minter for Blockchain-based Art-Work Trading System
11th IEEE International Conference on Communication Systems and Network Technologies 
978-1-6654-8038-3/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 571
DOI: 10.1109/CSNT.2022.99
Proposal on NFT Minter for Blockchain-based Art- 
Work Trading System 
Rupali Vairagade, Leela Bitla, Harshpal H. Judge, Shubham D. Dharpude, Sarthak S. Kekatpure, 
Information Technology Department 
G.H. Raisoni College of Engineering, Nagpur, Maharashtra 
Abstract— NFT is an abbreviation for non-fungible 
token, which indicates it cannot be replaced or 
interchanged due to its unique features. It is just a digital 
asset which symbolizes online collectibles such as art, 
music, and games and is protected by an authentic 
certificate generated by the block-chain technology that 
underpins cryptocurrency. The most important use of 
NFTs nowadays is in digital material. NFTs boost content 
producers' revenues by powering a creator economy in 
which artists cede ownership of their work to the 
networks they use to advertise it. Keeping in mind we 
have developed a system where one can mint the desired 
artwork directly from the web app which is 
automatically added to his OpenSea marketplace with his 
metamask wallet address which he will be use to create 
the account on OpenSea. The artwork will spontaneously 
be visible in my collection section of OpenSea from where 
the person can do many things including the change in 
the price of Artwork (NFT) he owns and release it on sale 
or take it out for auction. Also, details like elements of the 
artwork and con- tract address are also available which 
provides access to view all the activities performed by 
that particular NFT. 
Keywords— Non-fungible token, digital asset, 
blockchain, Cryp- tocurrency, mint, artwork, OpenSea, 
metamask wallet, contract address 
I. INTRODUCTION
An non-fungible token (NFT) is a kind of cryptocurrency [1] 
produced via the use of Ethereum smart contracts [2]. NFT 
was first proposed in Ethereum Improvement Proposals EIP-
721 [3], and it has subsequently been revised in EIP-1155 [4]. 
In terms of core properties, NFT varies from other crypto- 
currencies [5] such as Bitcoin [6]. Bitcoin is a digital currency 
that remains equal and unchangeable. And NFTs which is 
also known as Non-Fungible Token which means this token 
is not a replacement and this NFTs is unique. To be more 
premised, by utilizing NFTs on smart con- tracts, a developer 
may simply demonstrate the presence and control of digital 
goods such as films, images, paintings [7], concert tickets [8], 
and so on (in Ethereum [2]). Furthermore, the inventor can 
receive a commission of 10 % for each successful transaction 
on any NFT market or through peer-to-peer exchange. NFT's 
full-history tradability, substantial liquidity, and simple 
interoperability present it as a feasible intellectual property 
(IP)-protection solution. Despite the fact that NFTs are 
nothing more than codes, their uniqueness as a digital asset 
has given them worth. It basically guarantees selling prices 
for IP- related things that were previously impossible to 
predict with non-replaceable virtual assets [2, 3]. 
Industrial and scientific spheres have shown their great 
interest in dealing with NFTs. According to sources, the NFT 
market's average 24-hour trading activity is $4, 592, 146, 914 
USD, while the cryptocurrency market's total 24-hour trading 
activity is $341, 017, 001, 809 USD. The stability of NFT- 
related solutions accounted for around 1.3 per cent in a whole 
decentralized market in such a short time of 5 months. By 
trading one-of-a-kind digital treasures, early investors earn 
tenfold. Last year, the marketplace was dramality has 
increased for NFTs. (In January of 2020). There were 25, 729 
total transactions, with a total current value of 34, 530, 
649.86 USD. There were 17,140 primary market sales and 8, 
589 secondary market (user-to-user) sales. NFT sale was 
estimated at 12 million by the end of this year but it shocked 
everyone by increasing 340 million in just a period of 2 
months. People have shown their interest in different types 
of NFTs. People avidly take part in NFT-related events or 
trans- actions. CryptoPunks [9] which was the first NFTs on 
Ethereum has developed a collection of 10 thousand punks 
(6039 gents and 3840 ladies) and things helped them to grow 
the ERC-721. Crypto Kitties, which debuted in 2017 and 
gamified breeding mechanics, put NFTs on the map. There is 
a very good example of the NBA which provide the Top Shot 
in the NFT trading platform, this platform is also used for 
selling and buying the digital short recording of NBA 
moment. Many Basketball fans from the world have provided 
over 7.6 million memorable events shots, assisting in the 
development of a roster of new- bies, vets, and rising stars.  
Picas-so Punk rockers, Hashmasks, 3DPunks, unofficial 
punk rockers, Rockabilly, and other efforts have also been 
popular. So currently, there is a little confusion about NFTs, 
that they are able to fetch hundreds ether. NFTs stimulate the 
development of art [9], ticketing events [10], value [11],[12], 
IoT [13], and finance [14] in addition to games and 
collectibles. There are surrounding markets such as trading 
market places which contains example like cryptoslam, 
opeasea, superRare, Nifty Gateway and the so-called NFT 20
22
 IE
EE
 1
1t
h 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
n 
Sy
st
em
s a
nd
 N
et
w
or
k 
Te
ch
no
lo
gi
es
 (C
SN
T)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-8
03
8-
3/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
C
SN
T5
44
56
.2
02
2.
97
87
66
7
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
572 
eco- system, they all play their important role at their places 
in the market and provide instant information and secure 
environ- ments. NFT technologies are still in their infancy. 
Some possible obstacles must be properly addressed, while 
some prospective prospects must be highlighted. Moreover, 
spite of the fact that a wealth of material about NFTs is 
accessible to the general public through Wikipedia, scripts, 
and more. We aim to have attention to these issues in so far 
as they have been identified, as well as summarize known 
NFT solutions. The contributions are listed below. To begin, 
we isolate the modelling techniques of existing NFT systems. 
We specifically highlight the fundamental technological 
components utilized to build NFTs. Then we offer their 
procedures, norms, and targeted rights 
Second, we assess the security of present NFT systems. To 
analyze possible security concerns, we use the STRIDE risk 
and hazard evaluation [15]. We detail the necessary 
defensive measures for the worries based on it. 
Third, we explore the kind of possible opportunities of 
NFTs in a range of industries. Applying NFTs to real- world 
circumstances will spur a slew of new applications. We 
present a number of actual cases (projects) that have 
empowered the great success of NFTs with profitable markets 
Finally, we have solved the unresolved common issues in 
NFT habitats. NFT systems which are based on blockchain is 
continuing to face inescapable challenges such as data 
inaccessibility and privacy concerns. We discuss open 
difficulties that existed in cutting-edge NFT solutions. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
By removing the need to pay a fee to use credit or debit 
cards, cryptocurrency has the potential to upend a centralised 
financial system. According to recent trends, blockchain is 
emerging as a sustaining rather than disruptive technology 
with enormous promise in the supply network, hospitals, 
Internet of things (IoT). The commercial viability as well as 
appropriate- ness of blockchain are increas-By removing the 
need to pay a fee to use credit or debit cards, cryptocurrency 
has the potential to upend a centralised financial system. 
According to recent trends, blockchain is emerging as a 
sustaining rather than disuptive technology with enormous 
promise in the supply net- work, hospitals, Internet of things 
(IoT). The commercial viability, as well as appropriateness 
of blockchain, are increasing, and 3021 intellectual property 
families related to digital applications have been split into 4 
sub-categories based on various application areas such as 
Payments and transaction systems, Banking and finance 
business, Administration, and E-commerce. 
It is very secure due to the extensive usage of 
cryptography and decentralisation. By using blockchain in a 
controlled manner, privacy concerns about public 
blockchains may be solved (permissioned blockchain). 
Depending on their use, blockchains can be classed as public, 
private, or hybrid. 
• Public - No one owns a public blockchain; they are
completely decentralised and open to the public.
Private – These are also known as permissioned
blockchains since they employ privilege to regulate who may 
access and write to the blockchain 
• Hybrid – This agreement process is controlled by
privileged servers in line with a set of norms that all parties
have agreed upon. The network is relatively decentralised,
with copies of the blockchain being distributed to just a
small number of participants.
A protocol manages the beginning, validation, storage, and de- 
livery of each new block. Blockchain eliminates the need for 
third-party middlemen, and blockchain participants execute 
complicated algorithms to certify the integrity of information 
in the block. As a result, a blockchain is an intriguing option for 
how information is kept. Databases have traditionally been 
used to store data. The table below demonstrates the 
fundamental distinctions between block-chain and databases. 
Table. Comparison of Databases with Blockchain 
Criteria Databases Blockchain 
Data 
Integrity 
Changes can be 
made to record and 
data element 
Data sets is 
immutable; it cannot 
be modified once the 
transaction has 
occurred 
Authority 
Control is exercised 
br the administrator 
or a limited group 
of people 
There is no higher 
authority. 
Transparency 
All transactional 
data is kept seprate 
from one another 
Everyone has access 
to all transactional 
data. 
Cost 
The deployment 
process is expensive 
It can aid in the re- 
duction of high ex- 
pensive. 
Performance 
They are faster 
when compared 
They appear slug- 
gish. 
Trust 
Suitable for organi- 
zations having mu- 
tual trust. 
The organizations 
where people don’t 
have trust on each 
other. 
III. METHODOLOGY USED
The project aims to develop an NFT minter decentralized 
application that helps the popular artist to trade their artwork 
in the open sea which is a marketplace for NFTs, rare digital 
items and crypto collectables. Our decentralized application 
provides artwork security by providing them Amazon S3 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
573 
service for storing valuable digital assets or their digital 
artwork.  
Protocols: 
NFT needs the creation of a record-keeping distributed 
ledger, as well as transactions that can be exchanged peer-
to-peer trad- ing. In this study, a distributed ledger is mainly 
seen as a form of DB that contains NFT data. The ledger 
has all the security. It also contains consistency. Aside from 
it, there are two other roles in an NFT system: NFT owner 
and NFT buyer. The fol- lowing is a full methodology (also 
see Fig.3.1). 
• NFT Digitize is a software program that allows you to
dig- itize your documents. The file, title, and
description are all double-checked by the NFT owner.
After that, he or she converts the raw data to a usable
format.
• NFT Store is a store that sells non-fiction books. Note
that, despite the fact that this process consumes gas,
s/he also is permitted to keep original data into a
blockchain.
• The owner of an NFT sign a transaction, which has a
trans- action hash address of the nft, & delivers it to a
smart con- tract.
Minting and Trading process begins when the smart con- 
tract is created and then transaction containing NFT data. The 
concept of the Token Standards, which is discussed in Section 
3.2, is the main method underpinning NFTs. Confirmed by 
NFT The minting procedure comes to an end after the 
transaction is verified. NFTs will be permanently linked to 
the a unique blockchain addresses as persistence proof if this 
strategy is used. 
Figure 1 The NFT System Model 
Each block in the blockchain system, there is finite storage. 
When the capacity of a block is surpassed, new transactions 
are routed to the future obstruct related to the unique data 
block. Finally, all of the interconnected pieces have made a 
massive history that will be preserved in perpetuity. 
Whenever there is any transaction(Sell or Buy) done on NFTs 
the new transaction must be made to target the smart contract. 
After this process, when the transaction is done successfully. 
All the information related to NFTs and ownership and 
saved in the new block 
Deployment: 
We have first written the smart contract which contains some 
constructors that hold some security parameters. After that, 
we deployed that smart contract using remix ethereum ide and 
after deployment using the generated contract address, That is 
linked to our DApp application with the smart contract easily 
using truffle and redux. 
IV. RESULT & DISCUSSION
In this chapter, we will go through all of the parts of the 
web- site as well as the problem solving steps taken during 
the solu- tion's development process. The main important fact 
of our Dapp is it allows our users to buy and sell the NFT 
using Ethereum chain only. 
The artwork trading platform (NFT) is simply a peer-to-peer 
service that enables NFT owners to broaden their expertise 
while also establishing a new sector in blockchain finance 
that is specific to NFTs. 
We will discuss the following 3 major parts: 
• Smart Contracts: It is created to allow the mentioned
communication between the user and NFTs.
• Decentralized Application Interactions: Allows users
to engage with smart contracts while also providing
an abstraction to on-chain data.
• Final UI Interaction: We have displayed the final user
interface in this part.
EVM is a blockchain-based virtual state machine that 
adjusts its state by executing smart contract code. 
Because the calculation is constrained by the charge 
allocated for a transaction, it is a quasi-Touring-complete 
state machine. The cost is "gas," and it is required to prevent 
network misuse and ensure the blockchain's efficiency. Gas 
may be purchased with Ether by anyone who wants to run 
code on Ethereum (the currency of Ethereum). 
NFT Token Smart Contract 
We'll go through every element of our smart contract in this 
section. To create tokens on the Ethereum network, we must 
first import the ERC-721 smart contract, as well as the 
ownable contract for administrative purposes. We set up 
variables to store the baseURI, base extension, cost, max 
supply, maxMintAmount, paused, and whitelisted infor- 
mation. And all of these variables will be briefly outlined 
here: 
• String with baseURI: It's used to save the URL of the
place where all of the digital artwork and information
are stored, as well as how they're organised in terms
of assets and sequence.
• String with baseExtension: used to specify the base
URI's extension, e.g. json, jpg, and png are all
examples of file formats.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
574 
• Uint256 cost: utilised to determine the amount
of the NFT's cost.
• Uint256maxSupply: To set the maximum supply
limit, use this formula.
• Uint256maxMintAmount: used to determine the
maxi- mum amount of NFT that may be purchased.
• Bool Paused: When there is a flaw in the smart
contract, it is utilised to pause it in the future.
We constructed the function Object() { [native code] } to 
set the initial value in the smart contract at the time of 
deploy- ment. It simply has the following parameter: 
• String _name: The name of the NFT collection
token is specified using this parameter.
• String _symbol: used to establish the NFT collection's
symbol.
• String _initBaseURI: used to set the base URI supplied
when image publishing in cloud services
Figure 2 Constructor and variables initialized in the smart 
contract 
In the wake of instating the constructor, presently center 
around the mint capacity which is fundamentally utilized for 
the printing system as displayed in fig 2. Here prior to 
printing the NFT we are doing a few checks like checking 
assuming our savvy contract isn't stopped and the mint sum 
ought to be more noteworthy than 0 and the mint sum ought 
to be more prominent than most extreme stockpile and is our 
inventory sum and mint sum complete is less or equivalent to 
greatest inventory or not 
Later all the above checking, we have two additional checks. 
In the first place, we really want to check assuming that the 
source client is the proprietor or not and the subsequent check 
is, as- suming the client is the proprietor then, at that point, is 
it white- listed? What's more assuming all the above 
conditions are valid then the inputted esteem is set. 
Figure 3- Mint Function Code 
Decentralized Application 
In this part, we are discussing all the agreements and UI & 
UX of our Dapp website. We will talk about the 
components and their relationships, as well as the services 
and libraries that were used. 
Technologies 
We are working on a Decentralized Application and we 
are using web3 enabled browser or you can also use the 
metamask wallet extension provided in Firefox, Chrome 
& Microsoft edge. 
We are using the following technologies for building the 
frontend of our project: 
• React: A javascript library used to update and provide
the UI. [16] It is used to endeavor to supervise and
construct the frontend part.
• Redux: A javascript library used to store and oversee
state. [17] It was utilized to hold the information from
the savvy agreement and OpenSea APIs.
• Web3.js: an assortment of libraries used to deal with
the association with Ethereum. [18] It was utilized to
associatewith our savvy contract and the client's
wallet.
• Axios: a javascript library that may be leveraged to
execute HTTP requests. [19] We engaged it for
associating with the OpenSea APIs
IV. RESULT
We have shown the greeting page of the site and we 
really want to tap on interface button to associate our 
metamask wallet with our site. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
575 
Figure 4: Landing Page Interface 
Here in the information box, we really want to enter how 
much NFTs we need to guarantee. Later that snap on the case 
NFT button then it will show a meta veil wallet spring up 
where we want to address the aggregate sum NFTs cost for 
certain gas charges too. 
Figure 5- NFTMinting Page Interface 
In the wake of visiting the OpenSea commercial center and 
sign in there with a metamask wallet with the rinkeby 
network. Later the login interaction we can see our NFTs in 
my assortment and in Fig No. 5.8 is the genuine portrayal of 
all NFTs in Opensea. 
Fig 6- My Collection Page in OpenSea 
V. CONCLUSION
• It ought to be nothing unexpected that digital currencies
and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) are ascendent in the
present culture so there is no question that the
prerequisite of decentralized application will be in
enormous interest to make it more convenient for clients
to buy and sell the NFTs.
• Ages brought up in Online exceptionally later the blast
in blockchain field later the Coronavirus times are
presently in early adulthood and are making answers for
the present issues utilizing state of the art innovations,
the expected employments of which are basically
limitless.
• While some set crypto advances will be out of date in no
time and others accept they are well headed to mass
reception, obviously the impacts crypto innovation had
on the worth chains of imaginative enterprises won't
before long be neglected regardless of whether this
innovation at last give a road to finish disintermediation
which in the end implies the assortment of advances
getting together and tremendous headway of blockchain
innovation.
• We observed a utilization case that can build ERC-721
symbolic possession by means of rounds of Human
Centered Design re-search and introduced an answer
that acquaints new wanted freedoms with the NFT
market through cycles of Human - focused plan Design
research.
• Proprietors of aloof NFTs who want their ventures to de-
liver extra income. To do this, the renting choice may be
utilized. It could likewise be material to VR
reproductions that have land packages. It would allow
consumers to rent premises and offer clear powers to the
tenant, for example, the capacity to expand on it. All the
more such upgradation in the things would be accessible
with the forthcoming variants of the application.
REFERENCES 
1. Fairfield, J.: Tokenized: The law of non-fungible to- kens and
unique digital property. Indiana Law Journal, Forthcoming (2021)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
576 
2. Vairagade, R. S., & SH, B. Enabling machine learning‐based side‐
chaining for improving QoS in blockchain‐powered IoT
networks. Transactions on Emerging Telecommunications 
Technologies, e4433.
3. Vairagade, R. S., & Brahmananda, S. H. (2020, April). Secured 
Multi-Tier Mutual Authentication Protocol for Secure IoT System.
In 2020 IEEE 9th International Conference on Communication
Systems and Network Technologies (CSNT) (pp. 195-200). IEEE.
4. Rupali S. Vairagade, Dr. Brahmananda S H (2020). A 
Comprehensive Analysis of the Signifucance of Blockchain and AI
for IoT Security. International Journal of Advanced Science and
Technology, 29(3), 5542-5553.
5. Wood, G., et al.: Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised 
transaction ledger. Ethereum project yel- low paper 151(2014), 1–
32 (2014) 
6. William, E., Dieter, S., Jacob, E., Nastassia, S.: Erc- 721 non-
fungible token stan- dard. Ethereum Im- provement Protocol, EIP-
721, Accessible: https://eips.eth ereum.org/EIPS/eip-721. (2018)
7. Witek, R., Andrew, C., Philippe, C., James, T., Eric, B., Ronan, S.: 
Eip-1155: Erc-1155 multi token stand- ard. Ethereum
Improvement Protocol, EIP-1155, Ac- cessible: 
https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1155. (2018) 
8. Shirole, M., Darisi, M., Bhirud, S.: Cryptocurrency to- ken: An
overview. IC-BCT 2019 pp. 133–140 (2020)
9. Nakamoto,S.:Bitcoin:Apeer-to-peerelectronic- 
cashsystem.Tech.rep.,Manubot (2019)
10. Franceschet, M., Colavizza, G., Smith, T., Finucane, B.,
Ostachowski, M.L., Scalet, S., Perkins, J., Morgan, J., Herna ́ndez,
S.: Crypto art: A decentralized view. Leonardo pp. 1–8 (2020) 
11. Trautman, L.J.: Virtual art and non-fungible tokens. Available at 
SSRN 3814087 (2021) 
12. Regner, F., Urbach, N., Schweizer, A.: Nfts in practice–non-
fungible tokens as core component of a blockchain-based event 
ticketing application (2019) 
13. Chevet, S.: Blockchain technology and non-fungible tokens: 
Reshaping value chains in creative industries. Available at SSRN
3212662 (2018) 
14. Chohan, U.W.: Non-fungible tokens: Blockchains, scarcity, and
value. Critical Blockchain Research Initiative (CBRI) Working 
Papers (2021)
15. Omar, A.S., Basir, O.: Capability-based non-fungible tokens 
approach for a de- centralized aaa framework in iot. In: Blockchain 
Cybersecurity, Trust and Privacy, pp. 7–31. Springer (2020)
16. Dowling, M.M.: Fertile land: Pricing non-fungible to- kens. 
Available at SSRN 3813522 (2021)
17. Musan, D.I., William, J., Gervais, A.: Nft. finance lev- eraging
non-fungible tokens (2020)
18. Shostack, A.: Experiences threat modeling at microsoft.
MODSEC@ MoDELS 2008 (2008)
19. React. Accessed 15 Jun. https://reactjs.org/
20. Redux. Accessed 15 Jun. https://redux.js.org/
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.