Toward Understanding Attention Economy in Metaverse: A Case Study of NFT Value
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS 1
Toward Understanding Attention Economy in
Metaverse: A Case Study of NFT Value
Chenhuizi Wang , Member, IEEE, Chunjing Yu, and Yang Li
Abstract— With the blooming of NFT platforms such as
Opensea, metaverse has become the most booming concept in
both industry and academia all around the universe. Compre-
hending the way metaverse economy operates and the intrinsic
value propping, it has become the key to the essence of metaverse.
We try to reveal the value of metaverse via two academic
resources, attention economy and media theory, and describe
the principle of value creation in metaverse economy. To better
examine how the value of NFT projects is affected by human time
and attention devoted to metaverse, we first study systems with
structured rules, e.g., blockchain games, to measure the players’
time spent and to quantify the players’ rewards. In addition,
we investigate systems without dominant rules, in which the value
of the NFTs relies more on users’ subjective valuation of their
community symbols. Two representative projects, Aavegotchi and
Bored Ape Yacht Club, are examined as cases of the above two
scenarios. We analyze the data of NFTs such as price, time
devoted, and the number of likes and acquire some meaningful
findings of how NFTs drive prices up. Building on the above
researches, we consider NFT systems as partly attention economy
fused with finance and propose a theory of physical products
combined with NFT collections to help set the value anchor of
early metaverse. This will have profound implications for areas
of economy such as pricing theory.
Index Terms— Attention economy, metaverse, NFT, value.
I. INTRODUCTION
IN ORDER to understand the value of metaverse, let us
first briefly review the history of the metaverse economy
in terms of the development of three industries. The first is
the crypto industry, where the Web3 community, with public
blockchain as its key, first proposed the concept of metaverse,
which is oriented toward building the decentralized virtual
world. Web3 refers to the third generation of decentralized
Internet based on blockchain, which secures digital assets of
individuals, and acts as an infrastructure of metaverse. The
main focus of this community is on virtual property rights,
crypto currencies, smart contracts, NFT, etc. Since metaverse
consists of virtual digital elements, the creators of digital
contents are of great importance. The creator community
emphasizes building a healthy ecology and encourages each
participant to create digital content to enrich the virtual world.
As Web3 industry becomes widespread as an infrastructure,
the rights of digital content creators are confirmed, which
Manuscript received 15 July 2022; revised 20 September 2022; accepted
28 October 2022. (Corresponding author: Chenhuizi Wang.)
Chenhuizi Wang and Yang Li are with the PeerSafe Future Fusion Research
Institute, Suzhou 215133, China (e-mail: museofsummertime@gmail.com).
Chunjing Yu is with the Research Institute, Mindverse.ai, Hangzhou 310000,
China.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCSS.2022.3221669
means that digital contents become traceable and tradable
commodities, while they are usually copied for free in the
past. Along with the gradual acceptance of the NFT platforms,
the creator community and the crypto-industry community
continue to converge, becoming the forerunners of digital
capitalization and triggering phenomenal prosperity in digital
art. The third one focuses mainly on VR/AR, human–machine
interaction, and digital virtual humans, aiming to reach a
seamless connection between the virtual world and the real
world.
The above three industries take three approaches in the
initial development of metaverse, and their concerns are inter-
twined deeper and deeper. All these will become bricks and
mortar for the construction of metaverse, laying a foundation
for metaverse economy to prosper [1]. Metaverse economy
takes user-owned data as a pivot point. In the real world,
the goods we buy are made of physical materials, whereas
metaverse is constructed by computers, with digital pictures
and digital space as carriers. While goods in the physical
world can be valued through cost analysis, virtual objects are
shaped by human mental activities, and their value cannot
be estimated by physical properties. Especially for the crypto
industry, the value of NFT artworks includes not only the value
of art but also various ones such as community identity and
public welfare. The classical economic theory, which is based
on the calculation of marginal costs, no longer has the same
explanatory power as it did in the past.
To better understand the nature of the value basis in
metaverse, we used media theory and attention economics as
sources of insights. We investigated Aavegotchi, a blockchain
game, as a study case, and found interesting results on how the
value of NFTs is affected by various factors and verified the
gap of investment returns in the attention economy. We inves-
tigated Bored Ape Yacht Club as another case and found that
judgments of interest, esthetics, or value, as reflected by the
behavior of traders in a trading network, do influence the value
and price of the NFTs. We proposed a method of combining
material objects and digital elements to help set the value
anchor of NFTs, which would be the forerunner of the coming
metaverse consumption market. This article lays a foundation
for metaverse value theory, bringing us closer to a worldview
that can create a long-term prosperity.
The structure of our article is as follows: in Section II,
we present related work on the mediatization theory and atten-
tion economics and also some quantitative studies on NFTs
based on some visible attributes. In Section III, we present
a case study of a blockchain-based NFT game, Aavegotchi,
2329-924X © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1042-2402
2 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
and study the relationships among price, rarity, time devoted,
etc. In Section IV, we study a top NFT project, the Bored
Ape Yacht Club as second case, using attention flow influence
the value and prices of NFTs. We summarize the work in
Section V, providing a comprehensive perspective of meta-
verse economy.
II. SOURCES OF METAVERSE’S VALUE THEORY
A. Mediatization Theory
1) Metaverse as the Ultimate Form of Mediatization
Metaprocess: The development of media theory has evolved
along with the birth of media such as newspapers, radio, film,
and television. The influence of the media is not only limited
to the sender–message–receiver process but also it affects a
wide range of human relationships as societies and cultures
evolve, culminating in structural transformations [2]. With
the expansion of digital media in recent years, Castell [3]
discussed the Internet and the networked society.
Kroz [4], [5] defines mediatization as “a historical, unin-
terrupted, long-term process” in which more and more media
emerge and get institutionalized. It is a modernization process
as important as globalization, urbanization, and individuation,
which does not come to the front until the society reaches a
high degree of modernity.
We think that the concept of metaverse fits well with
the connotation of mediatization, which signifies the close
interaction between media and social and cultural structures.
Metaverse is a holographic medium, an all-encompassing pres-
ence that causes structural changes in the way people receive
information and perform actions. We can say that metaverse
is the final form of the metaprocess of mediatization.
2) Composition of Metaverse (The World of Symbols): In
the postmodern theory, some scholars argue that the media
hav brought about a new cultural order, which is a special
postmodern situation. The most extreme situation is found
in the work of Baudrillard [6], who believes that the signs
and symbols such as images, sounds, and advertisements of
media culture are simulacra or semblances. They follow a
semiotic logic that subordinates communication and discourse
to the dominant code, constructing a hyper-reality that is more
real than reality or even replaces it. Semiotics became the
fundamental principles upon which our understanding of the
metaverse was based. Baudrillard’s insight into semiotics is
very accurate and can be used as a clue to examine the value
of digital objects in metaverse.
3) Structured Social Interactions in Metaverse: Communi-
cation and action together constitute social interaction. Com-
munication can be considered as a form of action. Especially
in some existing social media platforms, actions such as liking,
retweeting, and commenting on a message all indicate the
attitude of the communicator. Options available to people
depend on the characteristics of different media. Cognitive
psychologist Gibson [7] proposed the concept of affordance
to describe this phenomenon, where the function of a given
object constructs the relationship between the subject and
the object, and affordance implies not only that a certain
action becomes possible but also that other possibilities are
excluded. Technologies limit the possibilities of things that
use, surround, or pass through artificial products. Norman [8]
introduces “perceived affordance” on this basis, which empha-
sizes user’s psychological feelings. The affordance of object
is influenced not only by environment and customs but also
by user’s motivations and goals.
According to Gibson’s and Norman’s frameworks, the meta-
verse sets the affordance to enable, constrain, and shape
people’s communication and actions within it. Duan et al. [9]
proposed a three-layer metaverse architecture, containing
infrastructure, interaction, and ecosystem, which is a specific
try to analyze the structured interaction in metaverse.
B. Attention Economics
1) From Information Economics to Attention Economics:
The kernel of attention economics first emerged as an empha-
sis on the scarcity of attention and time. As early as 1971,
Simon [10], a Nobel laureate in economics, pointed out that
in an information-rich world, the abundance of information
means the lack of consumption of information, i.e., the lack of
recipient. Becker [11], another Nobel laureate in economics,
a representative of the Chicago School, introduced the con-
cept of “time value,” which greatly expanded the traditional
concept of “economic man” and enabled nonmonetary factors
to be included in economic analysis through the introduction
of time, which is also closely related to the economics of
attention. The Aspen Institute conference in 1996 examined
the “new economics” centered on consumer attention in new
media environment and pointed out that the bombardment of
information by new technologies has made human attention
a precious commodity. Later in 1997, the star of the atten-
tion economy school, Goldhaber [12], gave a more powerful
interpretation to this concept.
Goldhaber [12] believes that the attention economy is an
all-encompassing system that should not be limited to money
economy dominated by business, banking, and finance. The
Internet era is an era of attention-focused economy. What
flows on the network is not only information but also human
attention. The concept of information economy is widespread,
but the information is something that everyone is producing.
Scarce attention is what is hidden inside information pro-
duction, distribution, transaction, and consumption activities.
What is lacking in the Internet era is not information but
attention, so the current society should be the era of attention
economy instead of information economy.
Attention is hard currency of information space. The total
amount of human attention may seem limited, but media such
as video and television create false attention, making a person
spend a certain amount of time but take hundreds of more
from viewers. This difference creates a new class division in
the attention economy, i.e., celebrities and fans. Celebrities
become the new landmarks of society, while those who cannot
speak or go unnoticed will become the new poor class.
Although somewhat overidealized, Goldhaber’s insight
around 2000 is becoming mainstream in the reality two
decades later. From rational consumption to emotional con-
sumption, people’s focus is shifting from necessity-based
to symbolic-based, impulsing consumption to meet spiritual
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
WANG et al.: TOWARD UNDERSTANDING ATTENTION ECONOMY IN METAVERSE: A CASE STUDY OF NFT VALUE 3
needs. Goldhaber [12] emphasizes that the network economy
operates around the resource of attention and is not accommo-
dated by the neoclassical economic theory. Precise quantitative
measurements of production and distribution are at the heart
of the industrial age, while attention cannot be measured in
the same way. This also leads to divisions between attention
economics and neoclassical economics.
2) Valuation of Attention in Metaverse: In metaverse, media
will play an important role in the attention economy by
internalizing the value process into presentation and operation
rules into the virtual world. NFTs are a composite carrier
that fuse virtual products, community identity, symbolic value,
public service, and personal interests in one, and thus its value
is greatly dependent on people’s psychology. In such a system
where valuation is subjective and symbolic, we might expect
the large node phenomenon to be more pronounced in the
metaverse. Following the path of attention economics, we may
be able to explore how people’s attention affects the value of
virtual goods.
3) Related Researches on NFTs: Some studies have con-
cluded that rarer NFTs have higher prices and guarantee higher
returns [13], but apparently this is only a correlation. Others
assert that the value of an NFT has been identified to be
heavily dependent on the public’s acceptance and demand for
the item, rather than technical or economic indicators [14],
even pointing out on a social level that all of them are
primarily influenced by the evolution of values and trades of
“Bored Ape Yacht Club” collection [15]. However, it is too
general.
When carefully considering the impact on the value and
price of NFTs, there are two schools of thought. One group of
people consider about it in terms of community characteristics,
stressing the importance of social media and community,
identifying important predictors for prices: number of user
membership lists, number of likes and replies on Twitter,
offers entered, bids withdrawn, bids entered on opensea [16],
etc. Another starts with the trading features: previous sales
history are good price predictors, and visual features are also
good predictors. It is found that when they are combined with
centrality measures of the buyer and seller in a network of
traders, predictive power can be increased [17]. Some studies
have also attempted to combine intrinsically rare traits with
external macro features to predict prices [18].
There is no doubt that all these factors influence the price of
NFTs more or less. However, none of these previous studies
identified users’ attention to NFTs in Internet media as a
source of value generation.
III. CASE STUDY I
A. Aavegotchi
Metaverse sets the affordance that enables, constrains,
and shapes communication and action of people in it, and
blockchain games can be considered a simple version of
metaverse that set clear rules within the system and defines
human action with it. This gives us a convenient way to
investigate players’ behavior and earnings comparing to total
free ones.
TABLE I
ABBREVIATION TABLE
TABLE II
PEARSON CORRELATION COEFFICIENT BETWEEN PARAMETER
AND PRICE (EACH p VALUE IS 0.000)
To better examine the value of time and attention in meta-
verse, we investigated a blockchain game called Aavegotchi.
Aavegotchi is a pixel ghost pet with ERC-721 as the standard
on Ethereum public chain, with which players can stake a
certain amount of token into it and interact with it as a digital
pet. Ethereum official website says their value is determined
by rarity, which depends on basic features, additional mortgage
currency and wearable equipment. Players use their wallets as
ID and convert general digital currencies such as Ethereum
and MATIC tokens into Aavegotchi’s token GHST to buy
pixel ghosts as digital pets. Players can interact with pixel
ghosts to increase intimacy values and can also use pixel
ghosts to participate in Mini Game gaining parameters such
as experience and intimacy. One of its major innovations
is that a certain amount of digital currency is put into the
ghosts, which makes ghost pets have value anchors as NFTs.
More importantly to us, there are structural construction and
numerical indicators for users’ attention devoted, which can
make our work much easier.
B. Data Acquisition
Each digital ghost has main attributes of ModifiedRari-
tyScore (MRS), KINS, EXP, and StakedToken. MRS is the
rarity score of a digital ghost, which is calculated based on
the basic rarity score set from the beginning and the wear-
able equipment that players can purchase for the ghost. The
abbreviation and meaning are listed in Table I. As the attention
paid by players is difficult to measure directly, we used the
parameters constructed by the Aavegotchi system to measure
the attention invested by users and the gains after trading.
At the beginning, each pixel ghost pet has an initial intimacy
value of 50, and every 12 h of consecutive interaction brings
a rise of at most 1 KINS. If you do not interact with the
pet for 24 h, however, the KINS value decreases by 1 point.
So the KINS value most directly reflects the degree of users’
effective participation. The EXP value can be obtained through
the participation of DAO, discord community, and minigame,
so it also reflects the degree of participation of the holder.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
Fig. 1. Buyer and seller network.
We crawled the data of the last 5000 transactions from the
Aavegotchi website, including each buyer’s unique ID, each
digital ghost’s ID, the purchase and sale price of each transac-
tion, and each digital ghost’s parameters of SalePrice, MRS,
KINS, XP, and StakedToken. Though one person can have
multiple IDs, we consider each ID as a valid buyer or seller
just like other studies do. As we try to find the connection
between ghosts’ value increase and players’ devoted time, the
applicable data for us are limited to 5000, as the number
of parameter-detailed history transactions is restricted by the
game maker.1 For researchers who have applicable datasets,
we appreciate sharing to update this research.
We first analyzed these 5000 pieces of transaction informa-
tion and found that the average degree of the seller’s trading
network is 5.32, and the average clustering coefficient is 0.04.2
We can see that online anonymous network community is
relatively loose. The probability distribution function (pdf)
of seller’s transaction frequency is pdf(x) = x−3.34, and
the buyer’s is pdf(x) = x−3.23, which obeys power law
distribution. A visualization of the buyer–seller transaction
network is shown in Fig. 1, in which the area represents the
transaction frequency of each node, and we can clearly see
that large nodes do exist.3
C. Pearson Correlation Coefficient for Transaction Prices
Next, we sifted through the data samples, taking the unique
ID of each pixel ghost as a clue and screened out a total
of 3472 pieces of data for the last time sales. We examined
the relationship between SalePrice and KINS, XP, MRS, and
1The duration of this data is from 26 October, 2021 13:49:12 to April 16,
2022 14:43:02.
2Average degree and average clustering coefficient are common indicators
of social network analysis. As to limited space, readers can google them to
get more detailed information.
3The social network graph is drawn using Gephi 0.9, MacOSX.
Fig. 2. Pearson correlation coefficient analysis for transaction prices.
StokedToken, seen in Table II and Fig. 2, with digital cur-
rencies converted into token GHST according to the average
exchange rate of the last three months. We found that SalePrice
has positive correlation with KINS, XP, MRS, and StokedTo-
ken, but none of them has a decisive linear correlation, that is,
rarity, intimacy, empirical value, and internal digital currency
do not decisively affect the sales price of ghosts. Although
MRS is the strongest factor to affect price, this is somehow
different from the declaration on the official website that the
value of each ghost is determined by rarity.
D. Selection of Parameters
We found that there was a strong linear correlation between
XP and KINS. The Pearson correlation coefficient between
KINS and XP is 0.655 with a p-value of 0.000. That is
because they all reflect the user’s investment of time. Here,
we choose KINS as an indicator because it directly reflects
the time invested by players. According to the mechanism of
Aavegotchi platform, KINS starts with a fixed value of 50 and
increases or decreases according to various factors, such as
the time ghost spends with the same owner and the frequency
of interaction. The minimum kinship value is 0, and there is
no maximum value. Interacting with Aavegotchi for 12 h can
accumulate up to 1 point of intimacy. If the pixel ghost is
not used for 24 h, the kinship will be deducted by 1 point.
This parameter defined by the game system will allow us to
estimate the limit of effective game time invested by players.
E. Pure Value of Ghosts
Next, we examined the value of StakedToken and found
34 items with no digital currency, accounting for 1% of the
total, which means that the pixel ghost has not been activated,
and its MRS, XP, and KINS are all 0 accordingly. Pixel ghosts
in this state are in the blind boxes. We distinguished this set
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
WANG et al.: TOWARD UNDERSTANDING ATTENTION ECONOMY IN METAVERSE: A CASE STUDY OF NFT VALUE 5
Fig. 3. Most profitable pixel ghost.
of data from the total data and found that its average value
is 934.7 GHST, which fluctuates greatly and has no obvious
distribution law.
To examine the net value of pixel ghosts themselves,
we used SalePrice-StakedToken to remove the value of the
internal digital currency from the ghost. It is found that two
sets of values are less than 0, accounting for 0.067%, which
means that the players sold their pixel ghosts at a lower price
than they bought, which may be due to irrational actions or
concerns about fluctuating exchange rates.
After excluding unopened and negative profit ones,
we found that the average value of SalePrice-StakedToken is
807.60, which is lower than the average value of blind boxes,
which can be regarded as the overestimation phenomenon in
NFT blind boxes. The sample value of SalePrice-StakedToken
obeys a log-normal distribution ln (SalePrice-GHSTtoken) ∼
N (6.50, 0.492), and the data distribution is very concentrated,
showing a clear long tail effect.
F. Most Profitable Pixel Ghost
Looking at the rest of the data, we can see the gap
between the peak and the bottom. Among them, the buyer with
the address 0x23abad8c65a9a93abcc343892aaf3d6e88b5ccc9
bought the pixel ghost #10 644, named LuckyAavegotchi,
seen in Fig. 3, put 0.25 AAVE in it, and sold it earning
31 000 GHST. According to the average exchange rate of
the recent three months, the buyer earned 30 900 GHST
currency, that is, nearly 380 000 RMB. The ghost’s intimacy
value is 484. This means that he has spent at least 217 days
(5208 h) interacting with the ghost, and the daily harvest is
142.40 GHST, or U.S. $273. This is a good investment and
represents the peak of pixel ghost’s value in Aavegotchi from
October 2021 to April 2022. LuckyAavegotchi’s congenital
scarcity attribute 578 ranks first, and the player increased
its MRS to 840 with several equipment bonuses, becoming
an extremely rare ghost, which lays a foundation for Luck-
yAavegotchi to become the unsurpassed benchmark in nearly
3000 transactions.
Similarly, ghost #24 975, the second profitable ghost, which
was sold at 28 000 GHST, ranked third in original scarcity and
did not get equipment. The player put 103.26 USDT inside,
and the net income was about 27 896.74 GHST, or about U.S.
$2394. This means that the holder spent at least 197 days
Fig. 4. Distribution of SalePrice-StakedToken when KINS > 50.
(4728 h) interacting with the ghost, with a daily income of
141.614 GHST, or U.S. $272, close to the first one.
G. Cheapest and Least Rare Ghost
For the ghost #16 244 named “I owe Jayson a Drink”
with the lowest selling price, the transaction price is
only 100 GHST, with 0.063 AAVE in it, and the profit is
about 95 GHST. Its KINS is 489, with a daily income of
only 1.67 GHST, about U.S. $3. As to the ghost with the
lowest MRS, it is #24 485 “The menu.” It has an MRS of
336, much lower than “I owe Jayson a Drink,” but finally
sells at 550 GHST, earning 540 GHST. Its KINS is 480 with
a daily income of about 2.25 GHST, U.S. $4.32, which is even
higher than the daily income of “I owe Jayson a Drink.”
By examining the appearances of the two ghosts, we found
that the seller changed the look of “The menu” by wearing the
equipment that did not increase the rarity, which successfully
completed a smokescreen that raised the price of the ghost.
This fully reflects the complexity of the value of NFT prod-
ucts: it is affected not only by the consideration of digital
currency and rarity but also by the impact of appearance. It is
difficult to use any standard to rank the value of an NFT
product.
H. Ghosts’ TimeValue
Since the initial value of KINS is 50, we define ghosts with
a KINS value greater than 50 as effective attention ghosts,
while many ghosts with KINS value less than or equal to
50 lack effective interaction in systematic decisions, which
will be considered separately. When KINS > 50, we found
ln (SalePrice-GHSTtoken) ∼ N (6.51, 0.49) with a mean value
of 811.87, seen in Fig. 4. To find the relationship between the
intrinsic value of the ghost and the attention paid, we define the
parameter TimeValue, which represents the increase in ghosts’
value as a result of each point of increase in KINS value, which
requires at least 12 h of high-quality interaction.
TimeValue = (SalePrice-StakedToken)/(KINS − 50).
We found that TimeValue growth obeys the log-normal
distribution, that is, lnTimeValue ∼ N (1.18, 1.03), seen in
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
Fig. 5. Distribution of TimeValue when KINS > 50.
Fig. 5. In terms of data performance, there is also a long tail
effect. We calculated the top 20% of TimeValue and found
that they accounted for 78.36% of the total. This also means
that most of the values of the attention invested are earned by
head players. It also reflects the cruelty of investment returns
in the attention economy and confirms Goldharber’s prediction
of an attention gap.
I. Ghosts With Highest and Lowest Time Value
We examined the peak and bottom of TimeValue. The
minimum value is 0.27 GHST and the maximum value
is 695 GHST. We noted that a ghost with the highest time
value, “ABOBUS,” with an MRS value of 486 and a KINS
value of 51, costs a little time of its owner but was sold
at the price of 720 GHST, earning 695 GHST, which earns
the highest return on time investments. Whereas the lowest
time value one “Crypton81” is sold at 555 GHST earning
only 87.24 GHST, costing a lot of time, with KINS of
371 and MRS of 511 (higher than “ABOBUS”). For individual
players, getting the best return on time investment seems like
a matter of luck. For those who sell ghosts at high prices with
few stacked tokens inside, perhaps the sensitivity to market
volatility is more important. It may be better for players to
participate for fun, and the external return on investment is
only a by-product of the emotional satisfaction in game play.
This again reflects the paradox in attention economy, where
people earn the most without paying the most, which is quite
different from the industrial world.
Finally, we examined the ghosts whose KINS is less than
or equal to 50. There is a total of 137 groups, accounting
for 4.6% of the sample. When KINS ≤ 50, we found
ln(SalePrice-GHSTtoken) ∼ N (6.36, 0.34), seen in Fig. 6. Its
mean value is 619, which is significantly less than that of the
sample whose KINS is greater than 50. The average value
of the latter is mainly contributed by head ghosts with high
prices.
J. Summary
We examined the data of Aavegotchi and found the follow-
ing main conclusions. First, the transaction prices of NFTs are
Fig. 6. Distribution of SalePrice-StakedToken when KINS ≤ 50.
positively correlated with rarity, but not decisively affected by
rarity. Second, the transaction frequency of both the buyers and
the sellers shows a power law distribution. The transaction
network has an obvious phenomenon of large nodes with a
low clustering degree. Third, the average sale price of blind
boxes is relatively higher than opened ones, which reflects
the overestimation of blind boxes. Fourth, the net value of
NFTs obeys the log-normal distribution with an obvious long
tail effect. Fifth, we analyzed the most profitable ghost, the
cheapest ghost, the least rare ghost, the ghost with the highest
time value, and the lowest time value and illustrated the
comprehensive factors that affect the value of NFT products.
Sixth, the average price of ghosts with effective intimacy
is higher than that without enough devoted time. Seventh,
the price growth of each intimacy point noted as TimeValue
obeys the log-normal distribution. The ghosts in the top 20%
account for 78.36% of the total time value, which means that
most return of attention investment is earned by head players.
It reflects the cruelty of investment returns in the attention
economy and confirms Goldharber’s prediction of an attention
gap.
Spending time for NFT pets in blockchain games seems
necessary, but not sufficient, to make money from them. The
structure of the game provides a way to participate, and during
entertainment, players contribute more of their attention to
the game and the community, which in turn fuel the boom
of NFTs. The value of NFTs and human time are closely
linked, and the numerical results we get from the above
analysis are just a mapping of the facts. Human time and
attention provide the possibility to create value, and with a
certain chance, some “LuckyAavegotchi” can make it to the
top. Although the transaction network follows a power law
distribution, the net value and time value follow a log-normal
distribution. The log-normal distribution often occurs when
there is a competition champion, ordinary participants who
form the main peak of the curve, and some stragglers who
are left behind. And there is a high possibility that the top
performers are well beyond the team. It is not too polarized
compared with power law distributions commonly found in
scale-free networks. This may be because the time cost in
the game is far more than clicking and following some social
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
WANG et al.: TOWARD UNDERSTANDING ATTENTION ECONOMY IN METAVERSE: A CASE STUDY OF NFT VALUE 7
influencers in social networks such as Tiktok, and NFTs have
their properties as a reference of value. In this sense, the
attention economy in NFT value differs from the pure attention
economy system described by Goldhaber [12]. The value of
NFTs in blockchain games is more compound, and attention
is only one component. This nature of time value is mainly
formed under the rules of a structured system. In the attention
economy, there is always a gap between leaders and ordinary
people, but there is also a space in between that we can use
specific rules to affect the attention phenomenon as a result.
IV. CASE STUDY II
A. BAYC
The above research gives us clues on the value of time
which focuses mainly on objective time measured by length,
whereas human attention occupies not only time but also
emotions and feelings. We first study Aavegotchi, an atten-
tion game system with structured rules. On the other hand,
it is important to investigate systems without dominant rules,
in which the value of the NFTs relies more on users’ subjective
valuations of their community symbols and welfare. A repre-
sentative projects, the Bored Ape Yacht Club, is examined as
a case of the second scenario.
The Bored Ape Yacht Club is a collection of 10 000 unique
Bored Ape NFTs living on the Ethereum blockchain. The col-
lection features profile pictures of cartoon apes generated by
an algorithm, with different combinations of scarcity attributes
and values. It is a phenomenal top NFT project, with a strong
community and held by many celebrities. Some studies have
shown that although each project has its own value and volume
of exchange, on a social dimension they are all primarily
influenced by the evolution of values and trades of BAYC
collection [15]. We analyze BAYC data on price, rarity, and
the number of likes and acquire some meaningful findings
about how NFTs leap their prices up.
B. BAYC Trade Flow Network
To explore how the value embodied by NFTs is influenced
by attention, we divide various factors into two categories, i.e.,
the scarcity properties that affect the intrinsic value of BAYC
and the external network properties that represent the attention
that NFTs get from people.
We first obtained all NFT data for BAYC. There were 10 000
entries, sorted by number #0 to #9999. Each BAYC has a
predetermined set of rarity traits that are normally distributed:
Background, Clothes, Earring, Eyes, Fur, and Mouth, each
with a scarcity score. These are used as indicators for internal
attribute values that attract initial attention. Most BAYCs have
been minted, and some have been offered for bidding and
trading, as reflected in the three variables of minting, offer,
and sales. Metrics such as the number of views and favorites
can also be found on trading sites such as Looksrare and
Opensea. These are used as indicators of the attention value of
external network properties. However, we also need to reflect
the attention metric in traders’ trading behavior based on their
own value perception and judgment. So we then crawled the
trading data for BAYC up to April 26, 2020 and organized the
Fig. 7. BAYC trade flow network with 10 000 NFTs.
Fig. 8. BAYC 10 000 T-sne.
network with traders as nodes into a network of trade flows
with each APE as a node.
For all 10 000 pieces of data, we set the price of unsold
NFT data significantly lower than the current selling price as
the current floor price (Price = 89), and then performed a
network visualization in Fig. 7. The nodes represent each of
the 10 000 BAYC NFTs. The color depth and size represent
the number of times they were held and traded and the size
of the cohesive attention, and the directed edges represent two
NFTs held successively by the same trader.
We then divided all the prices into four color labels based
on average Price Pa = 87.5634164549575. The label range
is divided into four zones: (0, 1/2*Pa], (1/2*Pa, Pa], (Pa,
3/2*Pa], and (3/2*Pa, 769) and performed a downscaling
(T-sne) visualization by training a graph attention network
(GAT) in Fig. 8. The dots represent NFTs, and the colors
of gray, blue, green, and red represent the four price tags
from small to large. But we found that visualization barely
distinguishes between the different colored labels. Therefore,
we judged that there is confusion in the 10 000 data samples
and that there may be a problem with the label settings.
Because most BAYCs have not been effectively traded in
the current trading cycle, or some have not been sold since
they were minted, the last sale price for these NFTs is either
nonexistent or too small to be used as a reference for the
current cycle’s peddling price. These data do not reflect the
attention flow relationship data during the transactions. So we
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
8 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
Fig. 9. BAYC NFT trade flow network with 10 000 NFTs.
Fig. 10. BAYC network degrees.
excluded these data, BAYCs whose last sale price was signif-
icantly lower than the current floor price (Price = 89). After
data cleaning, the data volume of NFTs was reduced from
10 000 to 1536, and we obtained a table of NFT transaction
flow network nodes with edge list.
In the network Edgelist, connecting edges (Source_ID,
Target_ID) imply the existence of a trader who sells
(Source_ID) and buys (Target_ID), i.e., the attention flow
is like Source_ID → Target_ID, so it is a clickstream-like
network where two nodes on the same edge have similar trader
interests or value judgments. The more APEs whose IDs are
traded, the more attention this BAYC will receive and the
greater the node degree will be. We visualized the network
as follows. It can be seen that in this network, there are nodes
with larger degrees, but there is no central node. The network
and degrees of nodes are shown in Figs. 9 and 10.
Fig. 11. BAYC correlation coefficients.
Fig. 12. Linear regression of BAYC.
C. BAYC Linear Regression
We performed a correlation analysis on the data, and the
resulting Pearson correlation coefficients are as follows. It can
be seen that the correlation coefficients for the number of
views, the number of favorites, the rare skin score, and the rare
eye score are 0.25, 0.17, 0.37, and 0.24, respectively, as shown
in Fig. 11. The results of a linear regression on the BAYC data
are shown in Fig. 12.
From the analysis of the results of the F-test, it can be
obtained that the significance p-value is 0.000***, which
shows significance at the level, and the null hypothesis that
the regression coefficient is 0 is rejected. A scatter plot and
linear trend of the data are shown in Fig. 13.
Price = 124.871 + (−0.262) ∗ Background + 0.087 ∗ Fur
+ 0.061 ∗ Eyes + 0.006 ∗ Earring + 0.026 ∗ Mouth
+ 0.039 ∗ Clothes + 0.014 ∗ Hat + 0.006 ∗ View
+ 0.038 ∗ Favorite.
The figure above shows the results of this model in the
form of a path diagram, mainly including the coefficients of
the model, which are used to analyze the relationship between
the influence of X on Y . The actual and predicted values
of the linear regression model are fit in Fig. 14. As can be
seen, although there are differences in the specific size of the
predicted values, the predicted and true values are generally
consistent in the linear trend.
It can be verified by information from trading sites such
as looksrare. For example, for trait of skins, it is clear that
“Solid Gold” and “Trippy skins” sell for the highest average
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
WANG et al.: TOWARD UNDERSTANDING ATTENTION ECONOMY IN METAVERSE: A CASE STUDY OF NFT VALUE 9
Fig. 13. Scatterplot of BAYC.
Fig. 14. Predicted values of BAYC.
Fig. 15. Effect of fur on price.
TABLE III
MODEL EVALUATION RESULTS FOR EXTRATREES
price, and NFT prices drop as skin rarity decreases, seen in
Fig. 15. This suggests that there are indeed some internal
scarcity traits that attract more attention, and it is reflected
in external network attributes such as views or favorites.
Similarly, the data were also regressed using a neural net-
work based on the back-propagation algorithm and ExtraTrees,
and the results are shown in Tables III and IV, respectively.
A visualization of the comparison between the predicted and
actual values is shown in Figs. 16 and 17, where the R-squared
of the test set represents a very poor result.
As can be seen from the R-squared values, there is no signif-
icant improvement in the results obtained by these regression
Fig. 16. Extree regression of BAYC.
Fig. 17. BP network regression of BAYC.
TABLE IV
MODEL EVALUATION RESULTS FOR BP NETWORK
models based on the same intrinsic and extrinsic features.
The regressions for both are roughly at the same level. This
means that a lot of important information must be missing
from the model. This is because traditional data analysis or
neural network models only focus on the features of the
objects themselves and ignore the relationships between them.
Therefore, it is necessary to use graph convolutional network
(GCN) to uncover the relationships between these objects, i.e.,
the network relationships between nodes and neighbors, so as
to improve the model’s fitting ability.
D. BAYC GATs
To explore the representation of NFTs’ attention mechanism
between intrinsic features and external network relationships,
we trained a GAT network by adding features such as the
number of likes and views to each node, as well as the original
scarcity features of the APE, with price labels (where labels
are gray for less than the mean and red for greater than
the mean). In GAT, the information of nodes in the network
is embedded into a high-dimensional vector space, and the
expression for weights of nodes relative to their neighbors is
automatically learned.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
10 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
Fig. 18. Attention of neighbors in GAT.
The process of obtaining the ATTENTION scores of neigh-
bor nodes is shown in the left of Fig. 18, and the process of
updating the multiheaded attention mechanism is shown in the
right of Fig. 18.
−T he training accuracy of this G AT is−
∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗Model training metadata : ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
commit_hash :
39c8 f 0ee634477033e8b1a6e9a6da3c7ed71bbd1
dataset_name : B AY C
num_of _epochs : 1536
test_acc : 0.6538461538461539
num_of _layers : 2
num_heads_per_layer : [8, 1]
num_ f eatures_per_layer : [9, 8, 2]
add_ski p_connection : False
bias : T rue
dropout : 0.6
∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗∗
The test accuracy of the GAT network shown above was
0.6538461538461539, which is much higher than the previ-
ous regression analysis. It can be seen that when using the
transaction data from the NFT flow network, the model gains
more information and thus has stronger predictive power.
We visualized the GAT with a downscaling (T-sne), seen in
Fig. 19, expecting the results to separate nodes based on two
colors as price tag in two zones: (89.19, Pa] and (Pa, 769],
with average Price Pa = 127.1966137. However, the results do
not have different price labels although different nodes have
a clear division. We then visualized the entropy histogram
of the GAT. If the local probability distribution (attention
weights over neighborhoods) is not uniform, it means that
GAT is learning a useful pattern. Entropy histograms help
us visualize how these neighborhood distributions differ from
uniform distributions (constant attention). If GAT is learning
constant attention, we will most likely use GNN or some even
simpler models.
The results can be seen in Fig. 20. The GAT is almost uni-
form when the attention network is at first layer (layer = 0),
until the central regions no longer overlap at the second
network layer (layer = 1). The attention weights of node
neighborhoods are used as probability distribution. The x-axis
is the entropy of accumulated neighbor information for each
node, and the y-axis is the number of node neighbors. Blue
represents the distribution with equal weights (traditional
GNN), and orange represents the new weight distribution
Fig. 19. BAYC-Tsne.
Fig. 20. GAT entropy histograms.
learned by GAT. We judged that there are a large number of
low-degree nodes, which are difficult to distinguish from each
other by the vector representation of neighborhood features,
and finally use the price labels as the main classification
feature.
After labeling the NFTs with two colors based on the
average price, and downscaling the visualization using T-sne,
we found that the neural network could not differentiate
well, which means that the average value of the existing
node samples was so low that most nodes could not learn
the effective attention weights of their neighboring nodes.
Therefore, we considered several nodes of high degree and
visualized the relationship with neighboring nodes. We found
that the labels of these high-degree nodes are overwhelmingly
the same as their neighbors, thus validating the previous
hypothesis that neighboring nodes have similar trader interests
or judgments about value. The resulting high centrality nodes
are visualized in Fig. 21.
Highest degree nodes
= [1031 433 424 1157 1015 1448 513 728]
Max attention weight
= 0.20009490847587585
Min attention weight
= 0.1998886913061142.
From the maximum and minimum values of the attention
weights of these neighboring nodes, we can also see that for
nodes with a high degree, there is a strong similarity between
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
WANG et al.: TOWARD UNDERSTANDING ATTENTION ECONOMY IN METAVERSE: A CASE STUDY OF NFT VALUE 11
Fig. 21. BAYC neighbors.
NFTs and their neighbors. That is, the buyers of these NFTs
share similar values, esthetics, or judgments of value.
E. Summary
Bored Ape Yacht Club is a phenomenally influential and
headstrong NFT project. We first analyzed the intrinsic prop-
erties of each NFT over a certain period of time, as well as
properties on social and trading sites, and found through corre-
lation analysis and linear regression, including ExtraTrees and
neural-network-based back propagation, that they do influence
the final price performance, especially furs, eyes, favorites, and
views. However, we also found that the predictive performance
of models using only attribute data from NFTs has reached
a limit. So we extracted the NFT flow network information
from the transaction data, trained a GAT, and found that the
prediction accuracy improved from 0.272 and 0.29 to around
0.65. However, the amount of individual NFT series data is
limited, and after data cleaning there are even fewer samples
that meet the requirements, so the effect improvement is not
very high. We will improve the work later by analyzing more
NFT series data. Finally, we calculated and visualized the
eight NFT nodes with the highest degree and found that their
neighbors were indeed more likely to have the same labels
as them. This implies that similar to the findings of some
previous studies, judgments of interest, esthetics, or value,
as reflected by the behavior of traders in a trading network,
do influence the final NFT value and price and can improve the
predictive performance by approximately 0.36–0.378. In addi-
tion to intrinsic traits, social and trading properties, and the
value of attention based on trading networks, the final value
and price performance of NFT should be affected by the
overall blockchain and NFT market environment, which is also
reflected in some overall attention concerns about the entire
international financial market. This requires further research
to explore in the future.
V. CONCLUSION
Metaverse is a cyberspace with immersive experience and
value validation where the virtual and the real intersect after
the Internet. In this study, we first view the metaverse as a
metamedia and the final form of mediatization metaprocess,
and then use the mediatization theory to explain the symbolic
elements of the metaverse and the structure of social inter-
actions. Then we introduce the attention economy system as
a potential essence of metaverse. We embarked on two case
studies in an attempt to quantify attention in the metaverse.
The first case study is Aavegotchi, a blockchain game with a
nurturing system. We analyzed the data of Aavegotchi pixel
ghosts such as price, rarity, and time devoted and studied how
the time invested pays off. The second case is Bored Ape Yacht
Club, a phenomenally influential NFT project. We found that
in addition to intrinsic traits, social, and trading properties,
there are some attention flow values in trading networks, which
do affect the value and final transaction price of NFTs.
Metaverse is a holographic medium that can be seen as the
final form of the metaprocess of mediatization. With Web3 as
the infrastructure, digital elements can be capitalized as NFTs,
giving birth to a new but chaotic economy. Couldry believes
that on the premise of media universalization, media can be
meta-capital, which has an essential ideological power and
provides a basic framework for understanding the world [19].
We can see that metaverse as the ultimate meta-capital is
already on its way to flourishing. Understanding the internal
value logic of metaverse will help us build consensus, promote
sustained and rapid development of the metaverse economy,
and make more informed decisions on the allocation of money
and time.
In essence, an NFT is a symbol, and this symbol is a
simulacra or semblance of the real world, with a composition
of different elements that are distinguished from each other
and granted rights in the web 3.0 architecture. NFT items like
blind box are set up with intrinsic elements as a reference to
scarcity, which act as an intrinsic support for the symbolic and
meaningful value of NFTs. Only in the context of scarcity can
NFTs become an asset, which is not beyond the foundation of
traditional economics. For blockchain games with systematic
time deposits, scarcity affects but does not determine the value
of NFT. The return on people’s time investment in NFTs is log-
normally distributed, implying a large income gap, but this gap
is not as significant as that in scale-free networks such as video
downloads and paper citations. This may be due to the fact
that blockchain games require lots of human time as a cost,
thus reducing this polarizing trend. For NFT systems without
construction rules like BAYC, different appearance properties
and scarcity affect the transaction price of NFTs. In addition to
its own scarcity, people’s predictions of value are also affected
by other people’s judgments of value, such as the number
of views, public likes, and attention flow of transactions by
traders. This is clearly different from commodity values in the
industrial age, but closer to products with financial properties
such as stocks. Thus in the NFT world, it is a world of
attention economy, but a compound one. Compared with a
pure content-producing attention economy system such as
TikTok, the NFT world has both assets and attention attributes,
in which the financial system is even stronger than the real
world.
Different from the industrial era, this inherent scarcity
cannot be measured in physical cost, and NFTs are more
liquid than traditional artworks. Therefore, the price of NFT,
including the price of Tokens, is bound to rise and fall,
showing a great herding effect. Faced with such a complex
system, more data and research are needed, and for the
qualitative analysis of value, we can indeed draw the following
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
12 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
conclusions. In an overwhelmingly mediated meta-process, the
asset-based digital elements cannot escape from the principle
of supply and demand, but the anchor point of price is difficult
to determine. The metaverse, as meta-capital, is still in its early
stages of capitalization of digital elements, and a mature price
anchor point will gradually emerge in the future. As of now,
if we want to make the value anchor more readily available,
we might as well try to combine the value of NFTs with
traditional commodities in the real world. For example, one
commodity has both a physical product and a collection of
NFTs, which can form a whole new form of object. This will
be a convenient path for the metaverse to become popular and
closely integrated with reality for a long time. Important areas
of metaverse economics such as pricing theory are awaiting a
rewrite of existing textbooks.
Beyond the NFT systems, our answer is partly yes as to
whether the nearly pure attention economy predicted by Gold-
haber [12] will emerge in the metaverse. After VR becomes
widespread, different metaverse social media platforms will
attract the attention of different groups, thus creating different
stars in different mediums and facilitating access to global
attention capital. At the same time, the social content generated
by each individual will attract attention while becoming an
asset to its creator. Individuals would be able to attach the
value of digital assets such as NFTs and personal tokens, cre-
ating a new compound economic system of attention economy
and financial system (e.g., SocialFi and MetaFi). It will be an
unstable, lively, and complex world, and let us be cautiously
optimistic about that day.
REFERENCES
[1] W. Chenhuizi and C. Wei, “Digital economics in metaverse: State-
of-the-art, characteristics, and vision,” Big Data Res., vol. 8, no. 3,
pp. 140–150, 2022.
[2] S. Hjarvard, The Mediatization of Culture and Society. Evanston, IL,
USA: Routledge, 2013.
[3] M. Castells, The Information Age: Economy, Society and Culture
(3 Volumes). Oxford, U.K.: Blackwell, 1997, p. 1998.
[4] F. Krotz, “The meta-process of ‘mediatization’ as a conceptual frame,”
Global Media Commun., vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 256–260, Dec. 2007.
[5] F. Krotz, “Mediatization: A concept with which to grasp media and
societal change,” in Mediatization: Concept, Changes, Consequences.
2009, pp. 21–40.
[6] J. Baudrillard, Simulacra and Simulation. Ann Arbor, MI, USA: Univ.
Michigan Press, 1994.
[7] J. J. Gibson, The ecological Approach to Visual Perception: Classic
Edition. London, U.K.: Psychology Press, 2014.
[8] D. Norman, The Design of Everyday Things: Revised and Expanded
Edition. New York, NY, USA: Basic books, 2013.
[9] H. Duan, J. Li, S. Fan, Z. Lin, X. Wu, and W. Cai, “Metaverse for
social good: A university campus prototype,” in Proc. 29th ACM Int.
Conf. Multimedia, Oct. 2021, pp. 153–161.
[10] H. A. Simon, “Applying information technology to organization design,”
Public Admin. Rev., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 268–278, 1973.
[11] G. S. Becker, “A theory of the allocation of time,” Econ. J., vol. 75,
no. 299, pp. 493–517, Sep. 1965.
[12] M. H. Goldhaber, “The attention economy and the net,” First Monday,
vol. 2, Apr. 1997.
[13] A. Mekacher et al., “Heterogeneous rarity patterns drive price dynamics
in NFT collections,” Sci. Rep., vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 1–9, Aug. 2022.
[14] D. Piyadigama and G. Poravi, “An analysis of the features considerable
for NFT recommendations,” 2022, arXiv:2205.00456.
[15] S. Casale-Brunet, M. Zichichi, L. Hutchinson, M. Mattavelli, and
S. Ferretti, “The impact of NFT profile pictures within social network
communities,” 2022, arXiv:2206.06443.
[16] A. Kapoor, D. Guhathakurta, M. Mathur, R. Yadav, M. Gupta, and
P. Kumaraguru, “TweetBoost: Influence of social media on NFT val-
uation,” 2022, arXiv:2201.08373.
[17] M. Nadini, L. Alessandretti, F. Di Giacinto, M. Martino, L. M. Aiello,
and A. Baronchelli, “Mapping the NFT revolution: Market trends, trade
networks, and visual features,” Sci. Rep., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1–11,
Dec. 2021.
[18] H. Schnoering and H. Inzirillo, “Constructing a NFT price index and
applications,” 2022, arXiv:2202.08966.
[19] N. Couldry, “Media meta-capital: Extending the range of Bourdieu’s
field theory,” in After Bourdieu. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2004,
pp. 165–189.
Chenhuizi Wang (Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in management science from Peking
University, Beijing, China, in 2019.
She is currently the Dean of the PeerSafe Future
Fusion Research Institute, Suzhou, China, which
deeply explores the combination of blockchain tech-
nology, metaverse, and traditional industries. She
is also a practitioner in the business of attention,
metaverse consumption, and cultural property rights.
Her current research interests are mainly in the topic
of human-centered value generation in metaverse,
including technical elements such as blockchain, digital games, digital cur-
rency, Web3, and NFT; sociological theories such as sociology of technology,
consumption theory, and media theory; and economics theories such as
attention economics, monetary theory, and multichannel pricing.
Chunjing Yu received the B.S. degree in math-
ematics from Capital Normal University, Beijing,
China.
He is currently the Research Director of Mind-
verse.ai, Hangzhou, China, and a member of the
Swarma Club. He has long focused on studying
consciousness and cognitive science, complex sys-
tems and causal science, digital esthetics, and game
science. He has been leading research on several
projects in the direction of combining AGI with
Web3 and metaverse, including Web3-based AGI
framework, mind-centered contract system, intelligent DAOs, and generative
art projects.
Yang Li received the B.Eng. degree in automa-
tion and the M.Eng. degree in control engineer-
ing from the Inner Mongolia University of Science
and Technology, Baotou, China, in 2017 and 2019,
respectively.
He is currently a Senior Researcher of the PeerSafe
Future Fusion Research Institute, Suzhou, China. His
current research interests include artificial intelli-
gence, cardiac imaging, breast imaging, open source
education, open organization management and col-
laboration, DAO, and NFT.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles true
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Black & White)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Tags
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails true
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 524288
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo true
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo true
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments true
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts true
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /AdobeArabic-Bold
    /AdobeArabic-BoldItalic
    /AdobeArabic-Italic
    /AdobeArabic-Regular
    /AdobeHebrew-Bold
    /AdobeHebrew-BoldItalic
    /AdobeHebrew-Italic
    /AdobeHebrew-Regular
    /AdobeHeitiStd-Regular
    /AdobeMingStd-Light
    /AdobeMyungjoStd-Medium
    /AdobePiStd
    /AdobeSansMM
    /AdobeSerifMM
    /AdobeSongStd-Light
    /AdobeThai-Bold
    /AdobeThai-BoldItalic
    /AdobeThai-Italic
    /AdobeThai-Regular
    /ArborText
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /BellGothicStd-Black
    /BellGothicStd-Bold
    /BellGothicStd-Light
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /Courier
    /Courier-Bold
    /Courier-BoldOblique
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /Courier-Oblique
    /CourierStd
    /CourierStd-Bold
    /CourierStd-BoldOblique
    /CourierStd-Oblique
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /EuroSig
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-Oblique
    /Impact
    /KozGoPr6N-Medium
    /KozGoProVI-Medium
    /KozMinPr6N-Regular
    /KozMinProVI-Regular
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicStd
    /LetterGothicStd-Bold
    /LetterGothicStd-BoldSlanted
    /LetterGothicStd-Slanted
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans-Typewriter
    /LucidaSans-TypewriterBold
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MinionPro-Bold
    /MinionPro-BoldIt
    /MinionPro-It
    /MinionPro-Regular
    /MinionPro-Semibold
    /MinionPro-SemiboldIt
    /MVBoli
    /MyriadPro-Black
    /MyriadPro-BlackIt
    /MyriadPro-Bold
    /MyriadPro-BoldIt
    /MyriadPro-It
    /MyriadPro-Light
    /MyriadPro-LightIt
    /MyriadPro-Regular
    /MyriadPro-Semibold
    /MyriadPro-SemiboldIt
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /Symbol
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfDingbats
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 150
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages true
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /ColorImageResolution 600
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages true
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.15
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 150
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages true
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /GrayImageResolution 600
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages true
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.15
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 300
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages true
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 900
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.33333
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /Unknown
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /ENU ()
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice