Harnessing Smart Integration: Blockchain-Enabled B2C Reverse Supply Chain
2021 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Knowledge Economy (ICCIKE) 
March 17–18, 2021, Amity University Dubai, UAE 
978-1-6654-2921-4/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE 
Harnessing Smart Integration: Blockchain-Enabled 
B2C Reverse Supply Chain 
Leena Wanganoo 
Research Scholar, 
University of Petroleum and 
Energy Studies, Dehradun, 
India 
leenawanganoo@yahoo.com 
Biranchi Prasad Panda 
Department of General 
Management 
University of Petroleum and 
Energy Studies, Dehradun 
bppanda@ddn.upes.ac.in 
Rajesh Tripathi 
Department of General 
Management 
University of Petroleum and 
Energy Studies, Dehradun 
rajesh.tripathi@ddn.upes.ac.in 
Vinod Kumar Shukla 
Department of Engineering 
and Architecture 
Amity University, Dubai, 
UAE 
vshukla@amityuniversity.ae 
 
Abstract—B2C cross-border e-commerce witnessed an exponential 
growth across the MENA (Middle East & North Africa) region 
especially during the pandemic time. Though, cross-border e-
commerce is high in this region, the customer hesitates to fill a cart 
from overseas company due to the fear of counterfeit/ fake products 
as well as hassle of returning the product. To the retailer the 
challenges is multiplied manifold. The trickiest barrier is complying 
with customs documentation for reversal, and collaboration with the 
intermediaries for reclamation. The return of goods faces challenges 
due to lack of collaborative and integrated technology linkage 
between the multiple partners participating in the operation. 
Additionally, the customer does not have a visibility and verification 
of the source from where the product is received.  Blockchain 
technology is a game-changing technology to solve product 
traceability, identify fraudulent transactions, and provide digitized 
transaction details to improve customer experience. The paper aims 
to analyze the challenges in operational processing the return of 
goods for the B2C e-commerce transaction. Based on the literature 
review, pain points in cross-border e-returns were identified. To 
explore the operational bottlenecks, conducted focus group 
interview with a small cohort of  45 logistics managers from 
companies in UAE. A conceptual framework is proposed based on 
Blockchain technology that would enhance interoperability and 
digital document transactions, enabling product traceability and 
transparency. This research contributes to the theoretical and 
practical literature on cross-border e-commerce, reverse supply 
chain management, document reversal, re-export issues, and how 
Blockchain technology's deployment will help the companies 
overcome the challenges and sustain in a fiercely competitive 
environment. The survey was conducted with a small sample size, 
future research can be conducted with a larger sample size and other 
countries to widen the knowledge of cross-border issues. The 
conceptual model needs further industrial validation from the 
practitioners before using it at a large scale to facilitate information 
collaboration and integration between the key entities in the B2C 
cross-border reverse supply chain operation.  
Keywords— B2C e-commerce, cross-border, reverse logistics,  
operational challenges, Blockchain technology  
I. INTRODUCTION 
   2020 has been an unprecedented year in many ways; the 
business model completely shifted due to the pandemic; 
Consumer rapidly moved to digital online buying. This lead to 
a surge in digital B2C purchases across the globe. Specifically 
in the Middle East, cross-border e-commerce took a quantum 
leap during the pandemic times. As per the reports (Fig. 1), 
UAE alone saw a growth of almost 400 % from Oct '19 to 
April '20.  The cross-border provides unique opportunities to 
the retailer to expose their brand to different geographies 
identify new opportunities and enter the markets with the high 
demand for international products. The strategic partnership 
with the local franchise and their acquisition has been a 
growth model for many global trade companies. 
 
Fig.1. Growth of cross-border e-commerce in UAE 
Source: [1] "https://www.global-e.com/resource/covid-19-cross-
border-ecommerce 
 Cross–border trade and technology are interlinked, it's a 
key driver to both local and global e-commerce supply chain.  
Industry analysts vouched for the fact that technological 
disruption in international trade was inevitable. Hence, with 
the rapid change in customer demand, the retail sector is 
pressured to reengineer itself and adopt technology to sustain 
in the competitive environment and provide customer 
satisfaction.  
A. Challenges in cross- Border B2C Reverse Logistics  
The cross–border reverse logistics is complicated as a 
maze but offers excellent opportunities if managed well. The 
challenges of crossing borders in Cross-border reverse e-
commerce is a maze to maneuver, but the possibilities are 
enormous. According to the Boston Consulting Group report, 
global cross-border e-commerce revenues are expected to be 
between $250 billion and $350 billion by 2025, compared to 
$80 billion in 2019.[2] Even most domestic e-commerce 
companies have the international component to business, and 
the return of goods is a critical success component. Hence, 
managing the cross-border is very critical. The major 
challenge to the customer while buying from an online cross–
border company is – fake and counterfeit products. The 
customer cannot identify whether the product is fake or 
original, and the online companies cannot assure the quality 
of the product delivered to the end customer. From the 
retailer's perspective, verifying customer identity and 
confirming the legitimacy of an order is difficult. Further, as 
most companies ship smaller parcels, the duty is paid mostly 
261 
20
21
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
pu
ta
tio
na
l I
nt
el
lig
en
ce
 a
nd
 K
no
w
le
dg
e 
Ec
on
om
y 
(I
C
C
IK
E)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-2
92
1-
4/
20
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
C
IK
E5
12
10
.2
02
1.
94
10
67
7
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:18:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Knowledge Economy (ICCIKE) 
March 17–18, 2021, Amity University Dubai, UAE 
by the logistics companies for the consolidated cargo; now, 
when the goods' return is undertaken for the individual parcel 
, a reversal of documents is cumbersome. The entire process's 
inefficacy leads to high processing cost, low trust, errors, and 
long lead -time. Maintaining the right quality, checking and 
monitoring counterfeit/ products, agility in responding to 
return of defective, unwanted products, reducing the lead -
time of operations, meeting the international standards and 
documentation, and collaborating with all the parties to 
minimize the losses due to product return. 
 Fig. 2 shows poor service quality and control that the retailer 
has on the entire process. 
 
Fig 2 – Reasons for the poor service quality in reserve logistics 
The current process is paper-heavy, filing documents at 
each activity level. The systems are driven by EDI and ERP, 
which means integration is only at the internal organization 
level, hence the process is slow. Lack of integrated technology 
in the entire chain also leads to poor visibility and 
transparency. In the fiercely competitive environment of B2C 
e-commerce, to sustain in the business for long term, it's 
necessary to deploy a technology-based solution to maximize 
agility and transparency in the reverse logistics operation. This 
discussion leads to further exploring the issue of B2C cross-
border challenges and proposing a potential solution. The 
research questions that are examined in this study are –  
RQ 1 : What are the major bottlenecks in cross-border 
operations faced by the customer, logistics provider and 
retailer in the execution of B2C return of products?  
       RQ 2: How can Blockchain technology integrate the 
reverse logistics process to enhance operational efficiency?  
  
II. LITERATURE REVIEW  
Cross-border businesses have grown with volume and 
variety across the globe with technology advancement, 
especially B2C buying. [3]. This surge is because digital 
technology-enabled B2C e-commerce has reached varied 
markets at a low marketing and administrative cost [4,5]. But 
the success of cross-border e-commerce lies in providing 
operational excellence to the customer requirement.[6] The 
main barrier to adopt cross-border purchase is poor quality, 
counterfeit product, long lead time, high shipping costs, and 
lack of transparency, and most important the hassles of 
returning the product. [7] 
In order to provide reliability and dependability post-
purchase to the customer and increase customer equity, the 
organization must focus attention on effective and efficient 
reverse logistics. It is essential to build an integrated and 
collaborative network among the intermediaries. Critical 
entities in the reverse logistics process are –  
a. Supplier  
b. Customs and Govt. Authorities  
c. Banks  
d. Retailer  
e. Service Provider 
f. Customer  
  
In the cross- border e-commerce, the key areas are - trade 
documentation and information requirements, identity and 
authentication of product quality, ability to meet the 
obligation to international customs standards. The long-
distance shipping and unwarranted logistics challenges in 
reverse logistics drive up their costs and hamper their trade 
ability. [8] 
Reverse logistics is very time-sensitive due to its 
complexities, requires specialized operations and information 
technology. The collaboration and integration among key 
participants support the activities like verification of 
originality of the product, inspection of goods, crediting 
customer accounts, and re-exporting the goods [9]. Hence, 
adequate software and automation is required for this 
operation [10]. Another vital area is real-time, end-to-end 
visibility of the entire operation to the customer. 
Collaboration with the Govt. authorities, customs, 
organization (for import and export compliance), the service 
provider (for the documentation, compliance handling, 
shipping the product), banks (handling payments and 
invoices) as well as retailer merchants is vital. The scalability 
and interoperability have to be of a high level to meet this 
requirement. [11]. Fig.3 shows the various intermediaries. 
Their alignment is critical among the key entities in the 
process.  
 
Fig.3. Cross- Border E-commerce – Intermediaries  
 
The blockchain technology can provide visibility in transit, 
hence it offers 'huge potential' to reengineer the supply 
chain.[12]. Blockchain can be a value enhancer from the 
traceability and authentication point for customer satisfaction 
and performance monitoring applications. [13]. Adapting to 
new technology can enhance the efficiency of the entire 
262 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:18:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Knowledge Economy (ICCIKE) 
March 17–18, 2021, Amity University Dubai, UAE 
supply chain. Blockchain technologies (Fig.4) can improve 
operations in the supply chain domain [14]. Technology-
based solutions like Blockchain worked the best to resolve 
trade problems and acted as an impetus to the entire 
ecosystem. 
 
 
Fig (4) Advantages of Blockchain Technology  
 
Blockchain, a unique technology based on Bitcoin, has 
gained popularity in other domains apart from finance [15].  
The technology has been a game-changer and has brought 
agility within its business processes and inter-organizational 
activities such as supply chain performance. [16]  
Blockchain can collaborate through the supply chain 
network and acquire information across the supply chain; it 
can integrate with the organization's ERP systems. Thus, 
providing real-time tracking verifies the identity and keeps 
the intermediaries' privacy and security intact.  The other 
advantage of the Blockchain above RFID is that it can 
integrate with the IoT sensors, and provide in-transit 
information, a unique logistics breakthrough [17]. It relies on 
peer –to – peer network as well as a decentralized ledger for 
the transaction. [18] 
 All the information related to the product authentication, 
intermediaries, time of the transaction, location, and item-
wise details of packaging are maintained and available to all 
the holders and ledger Blockchain members. [19][20] 
Network members are directly connected on a blockchain 
platform in a decentralized manner. The technology can help 
eliminate the agents and intermediaries from the network 
thus, saving time and cost across the supply chain. The 
customer c can directly interact with the supplier and verify 
the discrepancy in the product, price, invoicing directly on a 
blockchain-based system without intermediaries. This will 
provide trust and reliability of the product and the e-
commerce company from whom the product is purchased at 
the same time, the retailer gets the confirmation of legitimate 
faults occurrence in the product while getting a returned 
product from the customer.  
Hence, the paper aims to explore the operational challenges in 
the cross-border reverse logistics for the B2C e-commerce 
supply chain and propose a conceptual framework to integrate 
the intermediaries and provide end-to-end visibility.  
III. METHODOLOGY  
Based on the literature review, the authors identified 
the challenges faced by customer, logistics provider and 
retailer in reverse logistics operation. The authors started with 
the inclusion criteria by using a combination of keywords 
connected searched in Web of Science, Google Scholar, 
Research Gate, and Springer Link's databases. The search 
mostly included journal articles and conference papers.  
 
Based on the selected factors, we conducted an 
exploratory study. We selected Logistics providers to provide 
us insight on the return process because in B2C operation, the 
logistics provider is the main nerve center. The customer, 
retailer , customer interacts with Logistics provider to 
complete the process. We choose a convenient, judgmental 
sampling from five logistics companies,  45 staff members 
were interviewed for this study. Staff includes – Line 
Managers, warehouse managers, accounts supervisors, and 
delivery operations. The staff were involved coordination 
with the customer as well as customs and retailer.  
 
IV. RESULTS & ANALYSIS  
The process flow and the challenges in the reverse supply 
chain were mapped as per the Logistics managers' discussion. 
For a seamless reverse logistics operation, key activities 
where transparency is essential are –  
CRM interface: The customer currently does not have the 
interface to the retailer data to validate the product's 
authenticity. Secondly, customers do not have visibility when 
the logistics provider will pick up the returned goods. The 
customer-compliant technical supports are local, the internal 
supplier has no visibility to it . This leaves the customer 
dissatisfied with the cross-border returns. A customer needs 
to have visibility to product authenticity and legitimate 
confirmation from the supplier.  
Interface with Logistics Provider's System: Currently, the 
interface between the logistics provider and the customer is 
the Web / Mobile app . EDI integration. The dashboard only 
shows the customer name from whom the material has to be 
picked up beyond its opaque for the logistics provider. To 
plan the capacity and resources, the LP (Logistics provider) 
essentially needs a collaborative system. Table -1 below 
provides the various challenges that the logistics provider 
faces in a cross- border return of goods management.  
 
Table 1- Challenges faced by Logistics provider in Reverse 
logistics operations  
 
Challenges encountered in reverse logistics   
Traceability of exact location of the product damaged.  
Lack of visibility of ASN online 
MAWB shows only the number of boxes; order details are 
missing.  
Lack of information about the order to the logistics provider.  
(The carton numbers mismatch customer order number) 
Custom duty is paid for the consolidated cargo , reversal of 
individual is complicated with manual system.  
Error in EDI transfer leads to amendments.  
Labeling error by the customer.  
The pickup location is not clear .  
IT integration lacking between the retailer  and logistics provider  
Reversal of Bill of lading ( BOL ) – Manual coordination with 
multiple party.  
Multiple platforms for data transfer  
263 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:18:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Knowledge Economy (ICCIKE) 
March 17–18, 2021, Amity University Dubai, UAE 
Challenges encountered in reverse logistics   
Delayed letter of credit ( contract ) document transfer; Internal 
lead time for each operation is very high.  
 
 
Based on the logistics providers' insights, we ranked the 
challenges in process alignment and information sharing. The 
current system operates in silos. There is only Web EDI 
connectivity between the major participants, the speed of 
operation is low, and visibility is poor.  
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Ranking of challenges in Cross- Border Reverse Logistics 
(Based on the responses of Logistics Providers)  
 
Fig. 5 also concludes that contrary to the popular notion, 
internet challenges are just 3 % as per the respondent, the 
major challenge is – Speed of operation, transparency, 
collaboration, and online visibility.With the number of 
entities supporting the entire process and operating in 
different platforms, it is often difficult for the logistics 
provider to consolidate and identify the product receive and 
ship wrong or defective products to the right source. 
For a sustainable cross- border business, it is essential to 
deploy Blockchain-based system. 
A. Discussion on Blockchain and IoT enabled Solution  
Blockchain application permits users to uphold and access 
a single, shared version of the product's information and 
activities until it reaches the destination. The encrypted data 
increases integrity and security among the parties and reduces 
data duplication and reconciliation [21] [22] 
The advantage of deploying the Blockchain in supply chain 
management are as follows -  
Tamper-proof transaction information: A data structure of 
Blockchain creates an impenetrable digital record of 
transactions and shares them. There are two basic types of 
verifying keys.  Public-private key cryptography verifies the 
transaction publicly among the entities, whereas the public 
key verifies the transaction publicly. The transactions can be 
overwritten, deleted, or added by any other individual. The 
only member having a unique key can enter the data. The 
information is encrypted, so it's highly secure. [23] 
Information sharing & synchronization: In reverse logistics, 
due to lack of forecasting, capacity and resource planning is 
difficult due to wide variety, uncertainty, and low volume. 
Blockchain nodes help connect with various intermediaries 
the shared data, reduce the information irregularity, and 
improve information sharing across the entire supply chain. 
[24] 
Smart contract execution: The digital contract developed and 
signed between the parties to control the digital assets and the 
rights and performance obligations. Once the terms and 
conditions are mutually agreed upon, a computer system will 
automatically execute the smart contract. So that all future 
transaction documents are transferred faster in cross-border 
transactions. [25] It can also simplify contract terms, facilitate 
the negotiation, implement execution, and authenticate the 
contract fulfillment state. 
In reverse logistics, the Blockchain and IOT is one of the 
most promising applications because of its exceptional power 
to enhance the process's transparency and speed. [26][27]  
Blockchain-enabled B2C Conceptual framework 
IoT and Blockchain's amalgamation will deliver powerful 
mechanisms of gathering, accumulating, and sharing the 
information across the supply chain, enhancing reliability and 
visibility on a real-time basis.  IoT system is an open 
standards-based connected sensors device that automatically 
captures the data without human interference. It can support 
determining and verifying the source of the component 
material and their regulatory compliance. And can be 
connected with the existing software platform of the key 
partners to provide real-time visibility.  
On the other hand, Blockchain is the most secure tool to 
provide transparency by recording the transaction. In this 
complex operation with multiple operators, all can access the 
data but cannot delete or change it because of the hash 
algorithm. The fixed-length hash, which is unique to a 
particular document or contract, secures any data amount. Any 
alteration in data will not produce the same hash. Hence, 
security and reliability are unique characteristics of a result a 
blockchain ledger.  To provide visibility and transparency in 
the reverse logistics supply chain, the author proposes a 
conceptual framework based on Blockchain technology 
supporting a collaborative system with interoperability of 
systems between the key participants.  
The major components required for the below-mentioned 
process framework are as follows. 
 
 Hardware systems   
 Customer and supplier services.  
 Network service provider  
 Cloud Data Repository 
 Software/platform requirements 
 Online Customer authorization code generating 
software. 
 Route optimization software 
 A data analytics platform. 
 Return planning software 
 Smart contracts 
 IoT devices, GPS tracker, WMS, and TMS to provide 
 
264 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:18:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Knowledge Economy (ICCIKE) 
March 17–18, 2021, Amity University Dubai, UAE 
The major challenge is the transparency and visibility 
between the customer, retailer, and logistics provider, which 
can be resolved using the proposed model based on block 
chain interoperability node (Block) application. The smart 
contracts are executed on the Ethereum network nodes that 
exert computational power for running its code. This contract 
will help to enhance transparency, paperless transfer of 
information, reduction of error, and reduction of lead time. 
With the help of Fig (7) , we illustrate the flow of information 
in the conceptual framework. A detailed explanation follows 
-  
Fig. 7 – Blockchain and IoT Based conceptual framework for reverse logistics performance 
 
Step 1 – The customer can provide a copy of the bar -code of 
the returnable product through the mobile app to the system. 
The system interfacing with other software through IoT will 
access the data and provide the customer information on pick-
up time, location, and date. In case of damage return, it will 
assess supplier and retailer to handle the customer complaint 
and respond suitably.  
Step 2 - The IoT sensors collect data from each stock-keeping 
unit or box returned. This information is transmitted to 
multiple sources. In case of product discrepancy / counterfeit 
product, the e-trailer can easily identify the origin of the 
product, transform the same as per the requirement, and 
integrate with the existing Warehouse operation to sort, 
categorize the returned goods after that send the shipment 
back to the respective supplier. 
Step 3 – In usual practice, the logistics provider submits the 
print copy of custom documents for reversal; at this point, the 
manual coordination is maximum and usually takes 2-3 
working days. Blockchain technology-based on The 
distributed ledger would fulfill the documentation process 
faster within few hours. All the intermediaries share the 
information on the decentralized blocks, which is integrated 
among the unique partners. For the long–haul shipment, the 
revised Bill of lading (which is the most tedious process) can 
be complete faster because of data visibility at each node.  
Step 4 – With the Blockchain-based reverse logistics system, 
the e-trailer can also take real-time decisions to remarket, 
recycling, and refurbishing the product as mutual distributed 
ledgers help share and communicate information across time 
and space. The change of digital documentation is faster. The 
entire process, which currently has low visibility due to which 
stick piling at each step is highest, can be reduced with the 
integrated technology.  
Step 5 – the supplier visibility, validity, and authentication of 
the product will provide reliability, trust in the entire system. 
With the visibility of the entire operation, the supplier is now 
capable of finding the cause of customer return. It will help 
them rectify the system and build a sustainable operation.  
 
V. CONCLUSION 
     The customer in the cross-border reverse logistics 
management's lacks visibility on the authentication from the 
supplier on the originality of the product. Lengthy procedure 
lead -time, excessive paperwork and poor technology 
integration makes the entire operation inefficient and 
expensive. The challenges in the current system were 
examined with the intense focus group interview with the 
logistics providers, and concluded that the lack of process 
integration and digitization between the retailer, Logistics 
Company and the final customers leads to duplication, errors 
and delays in the entire operation.  Hence, there is an urgency 
for a responsive,secure recovery system blended with 
providing customer authantic information on real-time basis.  
Through the propose a conceptual framework that aims to 
integrate the critical intermediaries for the return of goods 
and mitigate the existing challenges by amalgamating the 
Internet of Things (IoT) and Blockchain. The conceptual 
framework proposes Blockchain and IoT as two technology 
enablers that will integrate the entire supply chain. With the 
integrated technologies, will attain superior service 
265 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:18:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Knowledge Economy (ICCIKE) 
March 17–18, 2021, Amity University Dubai, UAE 
performance and will be able to provide transparency, shorter 
lead time, security, timeliness, real-time decision making, 
order fulfillment.  
The data collected for this study is from a small cohort future 
research can include quantitative data from customer and 
retailer to understand the challenges in-depth. Further, in the 
future exploratory research can be conducted to analyze the 
model's supplier perspective, challenges, and business 
requirements. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] A. Schlachet, “COVID-19 : The Impact on Cross-Border Ecommerce 
- Global-e,” Global, 10-May-2020. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.global-e.com/resource/covid-19-cross-border-
ecommerce/. [Accessed: 03-Feb-2021]. 
[2] "Cross-Border E-Commerce Makes the World Flatter". [Online]. 
Available: https://www.bcg.com/publications/2014/post-parcel-sales-
channel-transformation-cross-border-e-commerce. [Accessed: 03-
Feb.-2021]. 
[3] Pounder, P. (2013) "A Review of Supply Chain Management and Its 
Main External Influential Factors in the global market economy Supply 
Chain", Supply Chain Forum, vol.14, no.3, pp.42–50 
[4] Burinskiene, A. (2012) "International trade and E-commerce in the 
practice of enterprises activity", European Integration Studies, vol. 6, 
pp.85–93. 
[5] Shama, A. (2005) "An empirical study of the international marketing 
strategies of e-commerce companies", Thunderbird International 
Business Review, vol.47, no.6, pp. 695–709. 
[6] Lee, C.H., Huang, S.Y., Barnes, F.B. and Kao, L. (2010) "Business 
performance and customer relationship management: The effect of IT, 
organisational contingency and business process on Taiwanese 
manufacturers", Total Quality Management, vol.21, no.1, pp.43–65. 
[7] “2020 Report on Asia-Pacific Cross-Border B2C E-Commerce”. 
[Online]. Available: https://www.globenewswire.com/news-
release/2020/02/27/1991716/0/en/2020-Report-on-Asia-Pacific-
Cross-Border-B2C-E-Commerce.html. [Accessed: 04-Feb.-2021]. 
[8] Peppel F., Müller M., Silveira M., Thoroe L., Schmidt M., Schenk M. 
(2016) Applying Product-Integrated RFID Transponders for Tracking 
Vehicles Across the Automotive Life Cycle. In: Kotzab H., Pannek J., 
Thoben KD. (eds) Dynamics in Logistics. Lecture Notes in Logistics. 
Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-23512-7_28 
[9] M. Bernon, J. Cullen, and J. Gorst, "Online retail returns 
management," International Journal of Physical Distribution & 
Logistics Management, vol. 46, no. 6/7, pp. 584–605, Apr. 2016. 
[10] Huscroft JR, Hazen BT, Hall DJ, Hanna JB. Task‐technology fit for 
reverse logistics performance. The International Journal of Logistics 
Management. 2013;24:230–46. 
[11] Pitney Bowes, (2010) Time to Get Serious About Cross-Border 
Ecommerce, Stamford: Pitney Bowes Publications 
[12] O'Marah, K. Blockchain for supply chain: Enormous potential down 
the road. Forbes. 9 March 2017. Available online: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinomarah/2017/03/09/blockchain-
for-supply-chainenormous-potential-down-the-road/#6354f6623db5 
[13] N. Kshetri, "1 Blockchain's roles in meeting key supply chain 
management objectives," International Journal of Information 
Management, vol. 39, pp. 80–89, 2018. 
[14] O'Marah, K. Blockchain for supply chain: Enormous potential down 
the road. Forbes. 9 March 2017. Available online: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/kevinomarah/2017/03/09/blockchain-
for-supply-chainenormous-potential-down-the-road/#6354f6623db5 
[15] Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. 
2008. 
[16] Saberi, S., Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J., & Shen, L. (2019). Blockchain 
technology and its relationships to sustainable supply chain 
management. International Journal of Production Research, 57(7), 
2117–2135. https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261 
[17] Tapscott, D., & Tapscott, A. (2018). How Blockchain Will Change 
Organizations. What the Digital Future Holds, 58(2), 10–13. 
https://doi.org/10.7551/mitpress/11645.003.0010 
[18] Makhdoom, I. et al. (2019). Blockchain's adoption in IoT: The 
challenges, and a way forward. Journal of Network and Computer 
Applications, 125, 251–279. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2018.10.019 
[19] Saberi, S., Kouhizadeh, M., Sarkis, J., & Shen, L. (2019). Blockchain 
technology and its relationships to sustainable supply chain 
management. International Journal of Production Research, 57(7), 
2117–2135. https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261 
[20] R. Gupta, V. K. Shukla, S. S. Rao, S. Anwar, P. Sharma and R. Bathla, 
"Enhancing Privacy through "Smart Contract" using Blockchain-based 
Dynamic Access Control," 2020 International Conference on 
Computation, Automation and Knowledge Management (ICCAKM), 
Dubai, United Arab Emirates, 2020, pp. 338-343, doi: 
10.1109/ICCAKM46823.2020.9051521. 
[21] Schmidt, C. G., & Wagner, S. M. (2019). Blockchain and supply chain 
relations: A transaction cost theory perspective. Journal of Purchasing 
and Supply Management, 25(4), 100552. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pursup.2019.100552 
[22] S. Anwar, V. K. Shukla, S. S. Rao, B. K. Sharma and P. Sharma, 
"Framework for Financial Auditing Process Through Blockchain 
Technology, using Identity Based Cryptography," 2019 Sixth HCT 
Information Technology Trends (ITT), Ras Al Khaimah, United Arab 
Emirates, 2019, pp. 099-103, doi: 10.1109/ITT48889.2019.9075120. 
[23] Cole, R., Stevenson, M., & Aitken, J. (2019). Blockchain technology: 
implications for operations and supply chain management. Supply 
Chain Management: An International Journal, 24(4), 
[24] Roeck, D., Sternberg, H., & Hofmann, E. (2019). Distributed ledger 
technology in supply chains: a transaction cost perspective. 
International Journal of Production Research, 0(0), 1–18. 
https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2019.1657247 
[25]. Lee, J., Azamfar, M., & Singh, J. (2019). A blockchain enabled Cyber-
Physical System architecture for Industry 4.0 manufacturing systems. 
Manufacturing Letters, 20, 34–39. 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.mfglet.2019.05.003  
[26]. Wang, Y., Singgih, M., Wang, J., & Rit, M. (2019). Making sense of 
blockchain technology: How will it transform supply chains? 
International Journal of Production Economics, 211(April 2018), 221–
236. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.02.002 
[27]. L. Wanganoo and V. K. Shukla, "Real-Time Data Monitoring in Cold 
Supply Chain Through NB- IoT," 2020 11th International Conference 
on Computing, Communication and Networking Technologies 
(ICCCNT), Kharagpur, India, 2020, pp. 1-6, doi: 
10.1109/ICCCNT49239.2020.9225360. 
 
 
266 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:18:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
		2022-08-24T21:43:22-0400
	Preflight Ticket Signature