Rhythm Dungeon: A Blockchain-based Music Roguelike Game
Tengfei Wang
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen
Shenzhen, China
tengfeiwang@link.cuhk.edu.cn
Shuyi Zhang
White Matrix Inc.
Nanjing, China
shuyizhang@matrixdapp.com
Xiao Wu
White Matrix Inc.
Nanjing, China
ling@matrixdapp.com
Wei Cai∗
The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen
Shenzhen, China
caiwei@cuhk.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Rhythm Dungeon is a rhythm game which leverages the blockchain
as a shared open database. During the gaming session, the player
explores a roguelike dungeon by inputting specific sequences in
time to music rhythm. By integrating smart contract to the game
program, the enemies through the venture are generated from other
games which share the identical blockchain. On the other hand, the
player may upload their characters at the end of their journey, so
that their own character may appear in other games and make an
influence. Rhythm Dungeon is designed and implemented to show
the potential of decentralized gaming experience, which utilizes the
blockchain to provide asynchronous interactions among massive
players.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Human-centered computing→ Empirical studies in collabora-
tive and social computing; • Applied computing → Media arts.
KEYWORDS
Blockchain, Game, Decentralization, Application, Software
ACM Reference Format:
Tengfei Wang, Shuyi Zhang, Xiao Wu, and Wei Cai. 2019. Rhythm Dungeon:
A Blockchain-based Music Roguelike Game. In The Fourteenth International
Conference on the Foundations of Digital Games (FDG ’19), August 26–30,
2019, San Luis Obispo, CA, USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 3 pages. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/3337722.3341836
1 INTRODUCTION
By leveraging the unique features of blockchain technology [8],
decentralized ledger, e.g. BitCoin [7], becomes reality. On this ba-
sis, Ethereum [2] further extends the application of blockchain
into the domain of decentralized applications (dApps) [3] by intro-
ducing the concept of smart contract [1]. Since 2017, tremendous
attentions have been attracted to develop a variety of applications
∗corresponding author
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored.
For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s).
FDG ’19, August 26–30, 2019, San Luis Obispo, CA, USA
© 2019 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-7217-6/19/08.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3337722.3341836
over blockchain platforms to enjoy the benefits of decentraliza-
tion: immutable, transparent and auditable data and functionalities.
Blockchain game [6] is one of the most active categories of dApps
in the market. CrytopKitties1, the most popular blockchain game,
once dominated the traffic in Ethereum network due to its popu-
larity. It leverages the benefits of immutable virtual asset tokens
and transparent game rules to improve players’ gaming experience.
In fact, blockchain has the potential to redefine the relationship
model between game operators and players: the game data will be
possessed by the players rather than the game operators. Among
the benefits blockchain brought to the games, the interoperability
of game data attracts the most attention. For instance, the Cryp-
toCuddles2 allows the players to use their own kitties purchased
at CryptoKitiies to battle. However, the state-of-the-art blockchain
games can only reuse the existing tokens available in a single di-
rection, which means that the data modification in new games can
not make effects on the token they inherit. This implies that, the
relationship between the new and the existing games are principal
and subordinate, rather than equal interoperability. In this demon-
stration3, we design and implement Rhythm Dungeon, a music
roguelike game to interact with Last Trip and Adam’s Adventure
(AA), another two blockchain games we developed to demonstrate
the concept of interoperability [4].
2 SYSTEM FRAMEWORK
Figure 1: System Framework
1https://www.cryptokitties.co/
2https://cryptocuddles.com/
3Demo video available at: http://gaim.sse.cuhk.edu.cn/rhythm-dungeon/
https://doi.org/10.1145/3337722.3341836
https://doi.org/10.1145/3337722.3341836
https://doi.org/10.1145/3337722.3341836
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3337722.3341836&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2019-08-26
FDG ’19, August 26–30, 2019, San Luis Obispo, CA, USA Tengfei Wang, Shuyi Zhang, Xiao Wu, and Wei Cai
Figure 2: Screenshot of Rhythm Dungeon: The player’s character (left) is fighting against the enemy.
In order to enable data interoperability, we implement packet
Genesis4, an open source smart contract package that hosts inter-
operable data for multiple games in the blockchain. Due to the
length limit, we would like to skip the implementation details but
only introduce the interfaces for our demo. As illustrated in Fig-
ure 1, the Genesis smart contract provides two public functions,
ReadCharacter and UploadCharacter, to facilitate interoperability.
The games developed with Genesis framework are able to fetch
characters from Genesis via the ReadCharacter function. Also, after
the function UploadCharacter is called with a character as the pa-
rameter, the contract stores the character if it is valid after checking.
Finally, when players play the games that have a connection with
Genesis, they can experience the features of the blockchain and
contribute contents to the contract by playing games. As an open
source framework, all players have free access to the content of the
contract and can read data that it has stored.
Based on the framework, we have designed and implemented
two blockchain games: Last Trip and Adam’s Adventure (AA). Last
Trip is a storybook, in which the players perform different actions
to improve their characters’ attributes to win the battles. The player
can upload his character to the blockchain after the game is over. AA
is a multi-player Dungeons and Dragons (D&D) novel-adventure
game. In this game, the players will experience three modes: Battle
of Adventure, Battle of Dark Lord, and Battle of Blood Moon. In
the Battle of Adventure mode, massive players will create charac-
ters to adventure in the Dungeon, conquer demons to empower
their characters on their own. All growth in these characters will
eventually be accumulated into Adam, a shared character stored in
4https://github.com/SFENKSLab/ProjectManis/tree/master/Packages/ProjectGenesis
the blockchain. In the battle of Dark Lord, the player will use the
shared Adam and one random character summoned from the Last
Trip to combat the Dark Lord, the evil king created by the system.
Each 30 times Dark Lord is defeated in every chain, the battle of
Blood Moon can be triggered. The player will use the Adam in their
corresponding chain to conquer the Adams in other chains.
The Rhythm Dungeon will interact with the characters uploaded
by the games above. Therefore, the players in this gamemay interact
with past players in Last Trip and Adam’s Adventure. Meanwhile,
the newly created characters in Rhythm Dungeon will appear in
Last Trip and Adam’s Adventure as well. With this approach, the
players of the tame will influence future adventures and contribute
their content to make the stories in these games continuously in-
creasing.
3 GAMEPLAY
The fundamental gameplay of Rhythm Dungeon is a mixture of
the music game and the role-playing game (RPG) with roguelike
elements. Each round the player starts with a new basic character.
During the play, the player encounters enemies that are randomly
generated or fetched from the smart contract Genesis, according to
the level of the player’s character. The player has to press buttons
in sync with the drum beats to fight against enemies. Every bar
contains four beats and the player has to press four buttons to
deploy one action (including attacking, dodging and charging). The
player can take one action every two bars. So, it is a kind of turn-
based input mechanism, just like the famous PSP game, Patapon. A
screenshot of Rhythm Dungeon is illustrated in Figure 2.
Rhythm Dungeon: A Blockchain-based Music Roguelike Game FDG ’19, August 26–30, 2019, San Luis Obispo, CA, USA
The role-playing elements of this game are quite straightforward.
Player kills enemies to earn experience points to level up. When
the player upgrades, he or she collects skill points to increase the
character’s strength, armor, luck (related to the chance of a critical
hit) and max health. The career of the character is determined by
the characteristic of the attributes. Due to the different tendency of
the attributes, the player can adopt different strategies for enemies
of different careers to kill more enemies. We plan to design more
contents for careers, which will be talked about later in the Ongoing
Work section.
Regarding the roguelike characteristic of this game, each time
the player starts with a new character. The character grows up
when it levels up. The death of the character is permanent, which
means there is no chance for the character to come back to life again.
However, the player can choose to upload his or her character to
the smart contract Genesis deployed on Ethereum. Then, although
one cannot play that character again, there is a possibility that the
character is brought back to life when other player plays the game
or act in other games that fetch this character from the blockchain.
4 GAME FEATURES
4.1 Asynchronous Interactions among Players
Players can interact with each other by letting others fight their own
characters or challenging characters of others. This is done through
the uploading and fetching characters to and from the smart con-
tract. The uploaded character is checked by the smart contract so
that its attributes do not violate the contract’s pre-defined rules
to regulate the process. With this mechanism, players can interact
with each other, or even with themselves, in an asynchronous man-
ner. Note that, the smart contract is completely accessible to the
public. Everyone can easily see the content of the contract and read
data from it. This transparency of the decentralized process makes
the whole process more reliable than a centralized server handling
the whole procedure.
4.2 Interaction with Other Games
Rhythm Dungeon, Last Trip and AA are designed to have the equal
privilege to access blockchain data through the Genesis smart con-
tract. They all have permissions to upload, fetch, and update char-
acters. When Rhythm Dungeon fetches a character uploaded by
another game, the player is in combat with a character from a differ-
ent game world. Meanwhile, the characters generated by Rhythm
Dungeon will appear in the other two games as well.
4.3 Adaptive Soundtracks
As the players encounter different types of enemies, the background
soundtracks with different tempos will be played for the particular
challenge. In fact, the game controls the difficulty by choosing
soundtracks with distinct tempos, which require different levels of
players’ reaction time. In general, quicker rhythmwill be associated
with stronger enemies, since the players may find it more difficult
to press correct key combinations in shorter intervals.
4.4 Personalized Characters
To create personalized characters for different players is a very
important procedure when the system accepts the submissions of
characters. In Rhythm Dungeon, the system keeps tracking the
records of all the mistakes made by the players during the gaming
session. When a character is uploaded, the blockchain will mark
the particular character’s weakness, which will be determined by
the type of most frequent mistakes the players have made. With
this approach, we are able to personalize the characters from the
players: the other players can deliver extra damages by attacking
the particular character’s weak point during future battles.
5 ONGOINGWORK
The Rhythm Dungeon game is yet completed. First, the only dif-
ference among distinct character professions in current demo is
the distribution of the character’s attributes. In our ongoing work,
special actions and unique passive skills of different professions will
be implemented to enrich the gamers’ experience. Second, the way
we generate soundtracks should be modified to reflect the impor-
tance of character personality. Similar to the characters’ weakness
feature described in Section 4.4, the uploaded characters’ strength
may affect the composition of soundtracks as well. We are looking
forward to an AI-based solution to dynamically create unique mu-
sic piece from the behavior of the characters. Third, there are still
security concerns in connecting blockchain and game systems [5].
In our current demo, players should surrender the private keys of
their wallets to the game server, which poses potential loss risks of
players’ tokens.
6 CONCLUSIONS
We developed Rhythm Dungeon, a music roguelike game demo
which can interact with other blockchain games via the Genesis
smart contract. As a turn-based roguelike RPG game, Rhythm Dun-
geon features the gaming experience with drum beats. More fea-
tures regarding unique character professions, dynamic behavior
and attributes of bosses are currently under development.
REFERENCES
[1] Néstor Álvarez Díaz, Jordi Herrera-Joancomartí, and Pino Caballero-Gil. 2017.
Smart Contracts Based on Blockchain for Logistics Management. In Proceedings of
the 1st International Conference on Internet of Things and Machine Learning (IML
’17). ACM, New York, NY, USA, Article 73, 8 pages.
[2] Vitalik Buterin. 2013. Ethereum white paper: a next generation smart contract &
decentralized application platform. https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-
Paper (2013).
[3] Wei Cai, Zehua Wang, Jason B. Ernst, Zhen Hong, Chen Feng, and Victor C. M.
Leung. 2018. Decentralized Applications: The Blockchain-Empowered Software
System. IEEE Access 6 (2018), 53019–53033.
[4] Wei Cai and Xiao Wu. 2019. Demo Abstract: An Interoperable Avatar Framework
Across Multiple Games and Blockchains. In 2019 IEEE Conference on Computer
Communications Demos (INFOCOM 2019 DEMOS), Paris, France, April 29-May 2.
Paris, France.
[5] Tian Min and Wei Cai. 2019. A Security Case Study for Blockchain Games. In IEEE
Games Entertainment Media Conference 2019 (GEM 2019), New Haven, Connecticut,
United States, June 19-22. New Haven, US.
[6] Tian Min, Hanyi Wang, Yaoze Guo, and Wei Cai. 2019. Blockchain Games: A
Survey. In IEEE Conference on Games (CoG 2019), London, United Kingdom, Aug
20-23.
[7] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. White
Paper: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf (2008).
[8] Michael Nofer, Peter Gomber, Oliver Hinz, and Dirk Schiereck. 2017. Blockchain.
Business & Information Systems Engineering 59, 3 (01 Jun 2017), 183–187.
	Abstract
	1 Introduction
	2 System Framework
	3 Gameplay
	4 Game Features
	4.1 Asynchronous Interactions among Players
	4.2 Interaction with Other Games
	4.3 Adaptive Soundtracks
	4.4 Personalized Characters
	5 Ongoing Work
	6 Conclusions
	References