Incorporation of Blockchain Technology for Different Smart Grid Applications: Architecture, Prospects, and Challenges
Citation: Waseem, M.; Adnan Khan,
M.; Goudarzi, A.; Fahad, S.; Sajjad,
I.A.; Siano, P. Incorporation of
Blockchain Technology for Different
Smart Grid Applications:
Architecture, Prospects, and
Challenges. Energies 2023, 16, 820.
https://doi.org/10.3390/en16020820
Academic Editors: Carlo Roselli, Elisa
Marrasso and Francesca Ceglia
Received: 5 December 2022
Revised: 7 January 2023
Accepted: 9 January 2023
Published: 11 January 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
energies
Article
Incorporation of Blockchain Technology for Different Smart
Grid Applications: Architecture, Prospects, and Challenges
Muhammad Waseem 1,2,† , Muhammad Adnan Khan 1,† , Arman Goudarzi 3,† , Shah Fahad 4,† ,
Intisar Ali Sajjad 1,† and Pierluigi Siano 5,6,*,†
1 Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Taxila 47050, Pakistan
2 School of Electrical Engineering, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310027, China
3 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of Victoria, Victoria, BC V8P 5C2, Canada
4 Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Missouri University of Science and Technology,
Rolla, MO 65409, USA
5 Department of Management & Innovation Systems, University of Salerno, Via Giovanni Paolo II, 132,
84084 Fisciano, Italy
6 Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering Science, University of Johannesburg,
Johannesburg 2006, South Africa
* Correspondence: psiano@unisa.it
† These authors contributed equally to this work.
Abstract: Smart grid integrates computer, communication, and sensing technologies into existing
power grid networks to achieve significant informatization-related advantages. It will provide
communication between neighbors, localized management, bidirectional power transfer, and effective
demand response. Smart grids (SG) replace conventional grids by integrating various operational
measures, including smart automation appliances, smart meters, and renewable energy sources.
Regarding energy management and resolving energy issues, SG is one of the most cutting-edge and
potentially game-changing innovations. Even still, its complexity suggests that decentralization may
provide significant gains. Because of its increasing digitization and interconnectedness, it is also
vulnerable to cyber threats. Blockchain, in this sense, is a potential SG paradigm solution that provides
several great benefits. Even though blockchains have been widely discussed to decentralize and
strengthen smart grid cybersecurity, they have not yet been researched in depth from an application
and architectural standpoint. Blockchain-enabled SG applications are the subject of an in-depth
research investigation. Electric vehicles (EVs), home automation, energy management systems, etc.,
are only a few of the many examples that have prompted the proposal of blockchain designs for
their respective use cases. Information communication network security is of paramount importance.
However, this evolving system raises cybersecurity issues. This paper aims to guide researchers
in the right manner so they may build blockchain-based, secure, distributed SG applications in the
future. This article also summarizes cybersecurity threats pertaining to smart grids. It starts with a
description of a blockchain followed by the blockchain infrastructure, challenges, and solutions for
different smart grid applications. A look back at the tried-and-true methods of securing a power grid
is offered, and then it discusses the newer and more complex cybersecurity threats to the smart grid.
In addition, models of common cyberattacks are presented, and the methods of defense against them
are examined.
Keywords: smart grid; blockchain; cybersecurity; home automation; energy management; electric
vehicles; cyberattacks; denial-of-service (DoS) attack
1. Introduction
For over a century, electricity has been transmitted from generation to customer
end using a one-directional conventional grid system. However, as human civilization
progresses rapidly, more fossil fuel-powered power plants are used, resulting in higher
Energies 2023, 16, 820. https://doi.org/10.3390/en16020820 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
https://doi.org/10.3390/en16020820
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0923-1476
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5156-2033
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1264-6194
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1017-2952
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8947-9729
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0975-0241
https://doi.org/10.3390/en16020820
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/energies
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/en16020820?type=check_update&version=1
Energies 2023, 16, 820 2 of 29
greenhouse gas emission. Consequently, the electricity grid has become a very complicated
system. Cascade failures are also more likely to occur in this new setting. Several major
blackouts have occurred throughout the globe in the last decade. A smart grid is a future-
oriented electrical network supporting renewable power sources, smart distribution, and
dynamic load shedding. These characteristics also help prevent cascade failures. A great
deal of data about the grid’s markets, service providers, and operations must be controlled.
In other words, as seen in Figure 1, a smart grid is a highly decentralized and structured
communication network to transport and analyze the data gathered. As has just been
discussed, wireline and wireless connectivity technologies are used in tandem in a smart
grid to facilitate power transfer and management. The purpose of a SCADA system is to
keep tabs on the status of a power grid at both the transmission and distribution levels.
Instead, data are sent across the network through a number of utility gateways.
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 2 of 29 
 
 
1. Introduction 
For over a century, electricity has been transmitted from generation to customer end 
using a one-directional conventional grid system. However, as human civilization pro-
gresses rapidly, more fossil fuel-powered power plants are used, resulting in higher 
greenhouse gas emission. Consequently, the electricity grid has become a very compli-
cated system. Cascade failures are also more likely to occur in this new setting. Several 
major blackouts have occurred throughout the globe in the last decade. A smart grid is a 
future-oriented electrical network supporting renewable power sources, smart distribu-
tion, and dynamic load shedding. These characteristics also help prevent cascade failures. 
A great deal of data about the grid’s markets, service providers, and operations must be 
controlled. In other words, as seen in Figure 1, a smart grid is a highly decentralized and 
structured communication network to transport and analyze the data gathered. As has 
just been discussed, wireline and wireless connectivity technologies are used in tandem 
in a smart grid to facilitate power transfer and management. The purpose of a SCADA 
system is to keep tabs on the status of a power grid at both the transmission and distribu-
tion levels. Instead, data are sent across the network through a number of utility gateways. 
 
Figure 1. Smart Grid Infrastructure from Generation to Consumer end. 
Given the rise in popularity of alternative energy sources, faster signal processors, 
smarter sensors, etc., the power grid is experiencing rapid evolution. The current need 
calls for a two-way exchange of data and energy between power producers and consum-
ers [1]. As a result, the conventional power grid is transitioning into a smart grid (SG), a 
system that can dynamically monitor and manage electricity flow, giving customers stable 
power [2]. Smart grid integrates computer, communication, and sensing technologies into 
existing power grid networks to achieve these significant informatization-related ad-
vantages. Energy management systems (EMS), electric vehicles (EVs), microgrids (MGs), 
smart cities (SCs), home automation (HA), and advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) 
are some of the most prominent examples of SG applications [2]. 
SG improves power supply dependability and makes various complex and difficult 
applications a reality [3]. Multiple entities in the grid conduct transactions at any time in this 
intricate network. Verifying the legality of the business dealings between the parties to a 
specific SG application is a major issue. Blockchain technology offers a safe and promising 
answer to this issue. Satoshi Nakamoto’s invention of blockchain technology facilitates 
agreement on the legitimacy of a transaction and keeps everyone involved honest [4,5]. 
Figure 1. Smart Grid Infrastructure from Generation to Consumer end.
Given the rise in popularity of alternative energy sources, faster signal processors,
smarter sensors, etc., the power grid is experiencing rapid evolution. The current need calls
for a two-way exchange of data and energy between power producers and consumers [1].
As a result, the conventional power grid is transitioning into a smart grid (SG), a system that
can dynamically monitor and manage electricity flow, giving customers stable power [2].
Smart grid integrates computer, communication, and sensing technologies into existing
power grid networks to achieve these significant informatization-related advantages. En-
ergy management systems (EMS), electric vehicles (EVs), microgrids (MGs), smart cities
(SCs), home automation (HA), and advanced metering infrastructure (AMI) are some of
the most prominent examples of SG applications [2].
SG improves power supply dependability and makes various complex and difficult
applications a reality [3]. Multiple entities in the grid conduct transactions at any time in
this intricate network. Verifying the legality of the business dealings between the parties to
a specific SG application is a major issue. Blockchain technology offers a safe and promising
answer to this issue. Satoshi Nakamoto’s invention of blockchain technology facilitates
agreement on the legitimacy of a transaction and keeps everyone involved honest [4,5].
Figure 2 displays the annual number of articles covering blockchain research. In
addition, the chart displays the comparable number of articles written on blockchain for SG.
Scopus was used to compile the tally of published works. According to the data, blockchain
technology is not being used in SG settings at present. Just a small percentage (3.5%) of
blockchain articles are really about SG applications. This study aims to analyze the existing
Energies 2023, 16, 820 3 of 29
literature on blockchain for SG, classify it according to its intended use, provide blockchain
design architecture for different SG uses, pinpoint relevant obstacles, and propose workable
solutions. A survey of some review papers related to smart grid application is summarized
in Table 1.
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 29 
 
 
Figure 2 displays the annual number of articles covering blockchain research. In ad-
dition, the chart displays the comparable number of articles written on blockchain for SG. 
Scopus was used to compile the tally of published works. According to the data, block-
chain technology is not being used in SG settings at present. Just a small percentage (3.5%) 
of blockchain articles are really about SG applications. This study aims to analyze the ex-
isting literature on blockchain for SG, classify it according to its intended use, provide 
blockchain design architecture for different SG uses, pinpoint relevant obstacles, and pro-
pose workable solutions. A survey of some review papers related to smart grid applica-
tion is summarized in Table 1. 
 
Figure 2. Number of articles on blockchain and blockchain in smart grids. 
Table 1. A summarized survey of some review papers related to smart grid application. 
Applications [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] 
This 
Study 
HA                
EVs                
Smart Cities                
AMI                
MGs                
EMs                
In contrast to the other research works, this paper focuses on the specific application 
of blockchain technology to the SG domain in a more holistic approach. In addition, the 
current paper outlines the framework for SG applications that make use of blockchain 
technology. Electric vehicles, advanced metering infrastructure, microgrids, and home au-
tomation are just a few of the many scenarios where SG might be useful. Different threats 
to smart grid privacy and security are also discussed, along with counterattack measures. 
The paper is broken up into the following parts. The fundamentals of a blockchain 
are covered in Section 2, covering various terms and concepts associated with blockchain 
technology. Applications in the SG space that make use of blockchain technology are dis-
cussed in Section 3 along with the architectures of several applications, and their chal-
lenges and solutions are explained. Section 4 addresses cybersecurity and cyberattacks in 
smart grids along with counterattack measures, while Section 5 describes the role of block-
chain in smart grids and Section 6 wraps up our analysis.  
Figure 2. Number of articles on blockchain and blockchain in smart grids.
Table 1. A summarized survey of some review papers related to smart grid application.
Applications [6] [7] [8] [9] [10] [11] [12] [13] [14] [15] [16] [17] [18] [19] This Study
HA 7 3 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7
EVs 3 7 7 3 7 7 3 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 3
Smart Cities 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 3
AMI 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 3
MGs 7 7 7 7 7 3 3 7 3 7 7 3 7 3 3
EMs 7 7 7 3 3 3 3 3 3 7 3 7 7 3 3
In contrast to the other research works, this paper focuses on the specific application
of blockchain technology to the SG domain in a more holistic approach. In addition, the
current paper outlines the framework for SG applications that make use of blockchain
technology. Electric vehicles, advanced metering infrastructure, microgrids, and home
automation are just a few of the many scenarios where SG might be useful. Different threats
to smart grid privacy and security are also discussed, along with counterattack measures.
The paper is broken up into the following parts. The fundamentals of a blockchain
are covered in Section 2, covering various terms and concepts associated with blockchain
technology. Applications in the SG space that make use of blockchain technology are dis-
cussed in Section 3 along with the architectures of several applications, and their challenges
and solutions are explained. Section 4 addresses cybersecurity and cyberattacks in smart
grids along with counterattack measures, while Section 5 describes the role of blockchain
in smart grids and Section 6 wraps up our analysis.
2. Overview of Blockchain
Blockchain technology has gained much interest in recent years. Blockchain was
first defined as a cryptocurrency [20] when it was first developed for digital money use.
Blockchain was once thought to be Bitcoin, the most widely used cryptocurrency. However,
blockchain is what really makes these digital currencies tick. It is a decentralized transaction
ledger that several parties may use. Researchers initially had the least interest in this
Energies 2023, 16, 820 4 of 29
technology, but Bitcoin’s success ultimately swayed them. There was a sharp increase in
the number of blockchain applications and usage in different technological areas after 2016.
Financial services, medical care, manufacturing, and other sectors are among those which
have implemented blockchain more deeply.
Blockchain is a chain of blocks of transactions recorded in series in which various
administrators oversee the operation of classic client/server systems. Blockchain is a P2P
network [21] in which all users have equal control over the network’s direction and opera-
tion. Many computers, or nodes, are linked together to form this network, and the blocks
in the chain cannot be altered without the network’s consent. A record of the centralized
database is stored locally on each node in the network [22]. The specifics of a given use
case will determine the type of blockchain used. Public blockchains, private blockchains,
and consortium blockchains are the three main categories of blockchain [23]. Three types of
blockchains exist: public, private, and consortium. In a public or permissionless blockchain,
no one may exert authority. Users are not restricted in their ability to read or write to the
network. On the other side, private or permissioned ledgers are inaccessible to anybody
who is not logged into the network as an authorized user.
The blocks are unreadable because they are protected with an encryption key. Con-
sortium blockchains include both the public and private blockchain models. In contrast to
centralized systems, the nodes in a blockchain network verify transactions among them-
selves in a decentralized manner [24]. Once a transaction has been verified by the nodes and
uploaded to the blockchain, there is no way to undo it since the identification of the network
nodes stays unanimous. So, the data stored on the blockchain cannot be altered [25].
While blockchain technology has shown promise for building a better infrastructure
of the future Internet, there are still a number of issues that need to be resolved. Due to the
immaturity of blockchain’s development, having access to knowledgeable individuals is
essential. Businesses are understandably concerned about the hefty upfront infrastructure
costs associated with BCT adoption, despite the many promising applications of this
technology. Privacy and security considerations also play a role in the spread of blockchain
technology. Legal considerations and difficulty scaling it up are also major concerns [26].
Terminologies and Components of Blockchain
Below are some definitions of terms used to define the critical parts of a blockchain:
Block: Pointers and linked lists are used to represent blocks in a blockchain. Blocks
are organized into a sensible hierarchy and aligned with one another using a linked list. A
block is a collection of data that is created by a secure hash algorithm and contains details
about a transaction, such as timestamps and references to previous blocks. Pointers show
where the next block is located. The block header and the block body are the two parts of
every block [27]. Below are the fields that make up the block header [28]:
i. Block version: it defines the criteria for validating blocks.
ii. Merkle tree root hash: the total hash value of all transactions in the frame is calculated
using this hashing algorithm.
iii. Timestamp: it is represented in seconds in universal time, as of 1 January 1970.
iv. n-Bits: the target size of a block hash.
v. Nonce: it refers to a 4-byte field that begins at 0 and increases by 1 with each
hash calculation.
vi. Parent block hash: the 256-bit hash value of the previous block is often known as the
parent block hash.
Public and private keys: Blockchain is a system of interconnected, cryptographically
secured blocks that is always growing [29]. Blockchain uses an asymmetric key mechanism
to verify transactional authentication. A private key is used to encrypt a block’s transactions.
These transactions are accessible to any node in the network. When using a public key that
is accessible to all nodes in the network, these nodes can decrypt the data.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 5 of 29
Hash function: Every block contains a cryptographic hash that is connected to the
preceding block. To specify a piece of data, hashing generates a fixed-length string. The
string’s length is irrespective of the data’s size.
Consensus procedure: A set of standards and agreement from all network users
are used to validate new blocks. To decide whether or not a block is valid, consensus
is required. For the consensus procedure, a number of methods are available, including
realistic byzantine fault tolerance, proof of work, and proof of stake.
Smart contracts: In a blockchain network, smart contracts are computer programs that
run automatically and regulate the transactions between dispersed nodes.
3. Operation Blockchain for Smart Grids Applications
By fostering more trust and promoting greater decentralization, blockchain technology
has the potential to alter existing applications drastically. However, the benefits it offers
are not being fully used by SG applications despite its increasing expansion [30]. The total
publications written about blockchain from the standpoint of different SG applications are
41% about energy management systems, 19% on microgrids, 24% on electric vehicles, 14%
on home automation, and 2% on AMI. Scopus was used to compile these numbers, and
only journal papers were examined. In a SG, blockchain is extensively used for energy
management purposes. The application of blockchain technology has also expanded to
include electric vehicles, advanced metering infrastructure, microgrids, home automation,
and smart cities [31].
3.1. Blockchain for Home Automation
The resistance and RMS value of a current describe the conduction losses. The output
is a smart home that is an IoT-integrated residence that improves the quality of life in
many ways, including safety, healthcare, pleasure, and convenience. Technology for the
home has improved the quality of life and allowed more people to live independently.
Consumers and IT companies are interested in smart homes because of their valuable
features, such as behavior tracking and safety assessments. Smart homes have many
advantages for homeowners and others but are also susceptible to malicious cyberattacks
that put consumers in danger [32]. Although there are existing methods for countering
these threats, they are highly centralized and vulnerable to widespread assault. Because
of this, the cutting-edge sector of automated smart home applications and facilities lacks
the flexibility and scalability required for productive use. Several advanced technologies
simplify people’s daily routines. These kinds of applications may produce massive amounts
of data. There are security concerns associated with storing this dynamic content in
archives. Blockchain has been shown to be a reliable and effective tool in the field of
remote connection and data transfer in cybersecurity. As a result, it is being used for home
automation [33].
Blockchain-based HA infrastructure refers to the use of several electronic gadgets
(smart TVs, lighting, etc.), either working autonomously or in concert with one another
to monitor the various settings of smart homes. To realize the potential of HA, these
intelligent gadgets must be able to communicate with one another. An IoT gateway
solves the problems that arise when several smart devices need to communicate with one
another [34]. To prevent a security breach, such as to prevent users in one house from
accessing the electronics devices in another house, the service provider is responsible for
making control suggestions to the users’ smart devices on the basis of smart intelligent
algorithms. Service providers may employ machine learning algorithms to provide more
accurate suggestions and forecasts. Connecting consumers and service providers over a
blockchain network improves HA security [35]. Possibly Ethereum or Hyperledger will
be used to create the blockchain. A blockchain’s overarching design for HA is shown in
Figure 3.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 6 of 29
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 29 
 
 
control suggestions to the users’ smart devices on the basis of smart intelligent algorithms. 
Service providers may employ machine learning algorithms to provide more accurate 
suggestions and forecasts. Connecting consumers and service providers over a blockchain 
network improves HA security [35]. Possibly Ethereum or Hyperledger will be used to 
create the blockchain. A blockchain’s overarching design for HA is shown in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. Blockchain’s overarching design for HA. 
Residents may only interact with the features of their own smart home devices and 
cannot interact with the smart devices in the neighborhood’s smart homes. All household 
gadgets may connect directly to the blockchain system through the gateway. Blocks con-
taining device data may be linked using the blockchain’s hashing algorithm. The service 
provider can provide data analysis and user-friendly recommendations, but it cannot 
have access to a smart home’s actual gadgets themselves. Through the gateway, all of the 
gadgets in a house may communicate with the blockchain network. 
Challenges and Solutions: Many different blockchain technologies are being put to 
use in HA-related projects right now [36]. Each system’s data are stored in a unique for-
mat, making integration difficult. Furthermore, these networks utilize various consensus 
techniques. Interoperability across different blockchain platforms will only be possible if 
they are standardized. A further difficulty in using blockchain for HA applications is per-
forming real-time analytics on streaming data. They need to be analyzed and evaluated 
in real time. For instance, real-time face detection is essential in an intrusion detection 
system. For real-time applications, processing blockchains might be difficult. Using a min-
imal framework might be the answer to this problem. 
3.2. Blockchain for Advanced Metering Infrastructure 
Every consumer’s energy usage data are collected, monitored, and sent through a 
smart meter; this meter is the brain of an AMI system. Many various groups have their 
own purposes for these meter data. The utility grid may use this information for demand 
forecasting and scheduling, while the distributor can utilize the information from smart 
meters to implement pricing structure and invoicing. On the other side, users may use 
this information for energy management purposes [37]. Despite the many benefits of AMI, 
transferring data across devices safely is difficult. A key component in reaching this goal 
is the blockchain-based AMI. Figure 4 presents a general approach for integrating block-
chain technology into AMI. 
Figure 3. Blockchain’s overarching design for HA.
Residents may only interact with the features of their own smart home devices and
cannot interact with the smart devices in the neighborhood’s smart homes. All household
gadgets may connect directly to the blockchain system through the gateway. Blocks
containing device data may be linked using the blockchain’s hashing algorithm. The
service provider can provide data analysis and user-friendly recommendations, but it
cannot have access to a smart home’s actual gadgets themselves. Through the gateway, all
of the gadgets in a house may communicate with the blockchain network.
Challenges and Solutions: Many different blockchain technologies are being put to
use in HA-related projects right now [36]. Each system’s data are stored in a unique
format, making integration difficult. Furthermore, these networks utilize various consensus
techniques. Interoperability across different blockchain platforms will only be possible
if they are standardized. A further difficulty in using blockchain for HA applications is
performing real-time analytics on streaming data. They need to be analyzed and evaluated
in real time. For instance, real-time face detection is essential in an intrusion detection
system. For real-time applications, processing blockchains might be difficult. Using a
minimal framework might be the answer to this problem.
3.2. Blockchain for Advanced Metering Infrastructure
Every consumer’s energy usage data are collected, monitored, and sent through a
smart meter; this meter is the brain of an AMI system. Many various groups have their
own purposes for these meter data. The utility grid may use this information for demand
forecasting and scheduling, while the distributor can utilize the information from smart
meters to implement pricing structure and invoicing. On the other side, users may use
this information for energy management purposes [37]. Despite the many benefits of AMI,
transferring data across devices safely is difficult. A key component in reaching this goal is
the blockchain-based AMI. Figure 4 presents a general approach for integrating blockchain
technology into AMI.
The gateway enables direct connection of the smart meters to the blockchain net-
work [38]. In accordance with the IEC 62056 procedure, the meter readings will include
meter identifiers and other data pertinent to the provision of utility services. The data
from the AMI are sent to the meters, which are linked to the servers or nodes inside the
blockchain network. All other nodes within the blockchain-enabled network are subse-
quently given access to these blocks. This network must be a private blockchain network
accessible only by nodes affiliated with the utility hub. Without sacrificing privacy or
security, smart contracts and validations on a private blockchain may reveal inefficiencies
in energy use.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 7 of 29
Challenges and Solutions: Despite the obvious benefits, blockchain technology has
not been extensively used for this SG use case. Scientists have implemented it to improve
the safety of AMI software. A lightweight blockchain-based infrastructure was presented
in [39] for improving AMI security. This framework had a low energy footprint and was
resistant to hacking attempts. Reference [40] demonstrates how blockchain may protect
AMI users’ private data. The same lack of interoperability and slowness in real time plagues
the AMI blockchain, which also affects HA applications.
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 29 
 
 
 
Figure 4. A general approach for integrating blockchain into AMI. 
The gateway enables direct connection of the smart meters to the blockchain network 
[38]. In accordance with the IEC 62056 procedure, the meter readings will include meter 
identifiers and other data pertinent to the provision of utility services. The data from the 
AMI are sent to the meters, which are linked to the servers or nodes inside the blockchain 
network. All other nodes within the blockchain-enabled network are subsequently given 
access to these blocks. This network must be a private blockchain network accessible only 
by nodes affiliated with the utility hub. Without sacrificing privacy or security, smart con-
tracts and validations on a private blockchain may reveal inefficiencies in energy use. 
Challenges and Solutions: Despite the obvious benefits, blockchain technology has 
not been extensively used for this SG use case. Scientists have implemented it to improve 
the safety of AMI software. A lightweight blockchain-based infrastructure was presented 
in [39] for improving AMI security. This framework had a low energy footprint and was 
resistant to hacking attempts. Reference [40] demonstrates how blockchain may protect 
AMI users’ private data. The same lack of interoperability and slowness in real time 
plagues the AMI blockchain, which also affects HA applications. 
3.3. Blockchain for Electric Vehicles 
New connectivity structures—vehicle-to-grid interfaces—have emerged as a result 
of the fast development of smart grid and the increasing sophistication of electric vehicles 
(EVs) (V2G) [41]. Logistics businesses, for instance, already provide permanent charging 
stations (CSs) for their fleet of cars, and this trend is only expected to grow as technologies, 
such as the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) [42] or the Internet of Things (IoT) [43], become more 
widely used. Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) technology [44] was developed in response to 
the need for interoperability between vehicles and other technological systems in the real 
world. V2X systems consist of integrated vehicle sensor platforms that centralize different 
functionalities on a single EV server [45]. V2X performance metrics are derived from a 
data set, including details on the shared multi-networked data and an electric car’s tech-
nical prowess. 5G networks have emerged and spread rapidly over the globe because of 
their security, speed of data transmission between linked cars, and global coverage of 
Figure 4. A general approach for integrating blockchain into AMI.
3.3. Blockchain for Electric Vehicles
New connectivity structures—vehicle-to-grid interfaces—have emerged as a result of
the fast development of smart grid and the increasing sophistication of electric vehicles
(EVs) (V2G) [41]. Logistics businesses, for instance, already provide permanent charging
stations (CSs) for their fleet of cars, and this trend is only expected to grow as technologies,
such as the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) [42] or the Internet of Things (IoT) [43], become
more widely used. Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) technology [44] was developed in response
to the need for interoperability between vehicles and other technological systems in the
real world. V2X systems consist of integrated vehicle sensor platforms that centralize
different functionalities on a single EV server [45]. V2X performance metrics are derived
from a data set, including details on the shared multi-networked data and an electric car’s
technical prowess. 5G networks have emerged and spread rapidly over the globe because
of their security, speed of data transmission between linked cars, and global coverage
of telecommunication systems [46]. Multi-networked communication systems enabled
by 5G technology have the processing capability to run applications at a higher level. A
V2X protocol is driven by a 5G network, which in turn encourages the development and
integration of blockchain applications [47]. Including blockchain technology in the vehicle-
to-everything protocol has the potential to revolutionize intelligent transportation systems,
improving both the effectiveness and efficiency of transportation and road safety [48].
Figure 5 depicts the overarching blockchain architecture of EV applications. The
infrastructure for electric vehicles based on the blockchain needs frequent nodes to record
the behavior of moving vehicles. These nodes are the backbone of the blockchain, validating
Energies 2023, 16, 820 8 of 29
blocks and executing smart contracts. These stationary blockchain nodes or access points
are where the data from the mobile EVs are sent. Wi-Fi links the many nodes and mobile
electric vehicles where every EV has its unique ID number. Information, including battery
life, vehicle condition, charging costs, etc., is sent from an EV to its charging station through
an access point. The nodes add these data in the form of blocks to the distributed ledger
where different blockchain nodes verify the transaction. The transportation authorities may
utilize the blockchain network to track the condition of the EVs and provide tailored advice
and warnings to each vehicle’s owner. However, the transportation department is unable
to adjust an EV’s settings.
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 29 
 
 
telecommunication systems [46]. Multi-networked communication systems enabled by 
5G technology have the processing capability to run applications at a higher level. A V2X 
protocol is driven by a 5G network, which in turn encourages the development and inte-
gration of blockchain applications [47]. Including blockchain technology in the vehicle-to-
everything protocol has the potential to revolutionize intelligent transportation systems, 
improving both the effectiveness and efficiency of transportation and road safety [48].  
Figure 5 depicts the overarching blockchain architecture of EV applications. The in-
frastructure for electric vehicles based on the blockchain needs frequent nodes to record 
the behavior of moving vehicles. These nodes are the backbone of the blockchain, validat-
ing blocks and executing smart contracts. These stationary blockchain nodes or access 
points are where the data from the mobile EVs are sent. Wi-Fi links the many nodes and 
mobile electric vehicles where every EV has its unique ID number. Information, including 
battery life, vehicle condition, charging costs, etc., is sent from an EV to its charging station 
through an access point. The nodes add these data in the form of blocks to the distributed 
ledger where different blockchain nodes verify the transaction. The transportation author-
ities may utilize the blockchain network to track the condition of the EVs and provide 
tailored advice and warnings to each vehicle’s owner. However, the transportation de-
partment is unable to adjust an EV’s settings. 
 
Figure 5. Blockchain architecture of EV applications. 
The potential of electric cars as part of a sustainable transport system has gained them 
widespread attention in recent years. Rapid technological progress enabling smart net-
work connectivity has enabled EVs to interact with their surroundings. Through the use 
of renewable energies and smart networks, the price of producing power is consistently 
dropping [49]. Therefore, the creation of a secure communication architecture that pre-
serves data confidentiality and information anonymity is the primary difficulty of peer-
to-peer technology, E-trading and D-trading, and integration for electric cars [50]. A block-
chain’s primary purpose is to hide commercial interactions behind a wall of anonymity 
without sacrificing data security [51]. The use of blockchain technology in the Emerging 
Smart Grid is the subject of many academic reviews [52,53]. Security has to be evaluated 
systematically to improve the SG’s dependability, despite the technology’s widespread 
repute for usefulness [54]. In response to this, the implementation of blockchain-based EV 
charging infrastructure is fully described in [55]. The Ethereum blockchain technology, 
widely used for implementing decentralized applications, serves as the basis for this re-
search [56]. The benefit it provides is the secure crediting of energy flows between electric 
car owners and the corporations who control charging stations. The blockchain’s inherent 
Figure 5. Blockchain architecture of EV applications.
The potential of electric cars as part of a sustainable transport system has gained them
widespread attention in recent years. Rapid technological progress enabling smart network
connectivity has enabled EVs to interact with their surroundings. Through the use of
renewable energies and smart networks, the price of producing power is consistently drop-
ping [49]. Therefore, the creation of a secure communication architecture that preserves
data confidentiality and information anonymity is the primary difficulty of peer-to-peer
technology, E-trading and D-trading, and integration for electric cars [50]. A blockchain’s
primary purpose is to hide commercial interactions behind a wall of anonymity without
sacrificing data security [51]. The use of blockchain technology in the Emerging Smart Grid
is the subject of many academic reviews [52,53]. Security has to be evaluated systemati-
cally to improve the SG’s dependability, despite the technology’s widespread repute for
usefulness [54]. In response to this, the implementation of blockchain-based EV charging
infrastructure is fully described in [55]. The Ethereum blockchain technology, widely used
for implementing decentralized applications, serves as the basis for this research [56]. The
benefit it provides is the secure crediting of energy flows between electric car owners and
the corporations who control charging stations. The blockchain’s inherent constraints, such
as high transaction costs owing to network congestion, power dissipation, and transactions
that do not alter in the event of mistakes, are the only obstacles that may be eliminated
in the future. The importance of technoeconomic assessment of home energy trading
systems was further shown by a test case in [57]. An electric vehicle (EV) is one component
of this system that might benefit from blockchain technology. Electric vehicles that use
blockchain technology not only increase residential engagement with power markets but
also significantly mitigate their negative effects on the grid [58].
Challenges and Solutions: Some problems that have yet to be solved are the scalability
of blockchain data, the security of downloaded data, and the privacy of blockchain trans-
actions. Processing energy transfers and maintaining user privacy present a significant
Energies 2023, 16, 820 9 of 29
difficulty for P2P platforms. The implementation of blockchain technology for EV applica-
tions with WSN infrastructure is hindered by the high resource required and transaction
cost in terms of energy consumption. If these barriers could be removed, blockchain tech-
nology would become the most critical component in EV development. Possible solutions
include the creation of compact blockchain algorithms for real-time consensus.
3.4. Blockchain for Renewable Microgrids
Each day brings more evidence of the ongoing shift and development toward a
renewable grid based on a wide variety of decentralized energy sources, including solar
panels, fuel cells, microturbines, batteries, and so on. Blockchain technology is essential
to the smooth execution of these changes. Figure 6 depicts the MG application’s generic
blockchain architecture. A zone’s electrical grid often covers a significant region, requiring
many MGs to be considered. These many MGs are linked together through the blockchain
system. Without compromising data quality or transparency, the blockchain network
intends to improve safety and confidentiality in the MG operation. The produced energy,
the power to be transferred with other microgrids, etc., are all included in the data block.
Each freshly created block of MG data is verified by a consensus method to ensure its
accuracy. After the block has been confirmed, it is added to the blockchain and the network.
Blockchain nodes need appropriate algorithms to agree on the nature of the energy being
transferred, the value of the power being sold, etc.
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 9 of 29 
 
 
constraints, such as high transaction costs owing to network congestion, power dissipa-
tion, and transactions that do not alter in the event of mistakes, are the only obstacles that 
may be eliminated in the future. The importance of technoeconomic assessment of home 
energy trading systems was further shown by a test case in [57]. An electric vehicle (EV) 
is one component of this system that might benefit from blockchain technology. Electric 
vehicles that use blockchain technology not only increase residential engagement with 
power markets but also significantly mitigate their negative effects on the grid [58]. 
Challenges and Solutions: Some problems that have yet to be solved are the scalabil-
ity of blockchain data, the security of downloaded data, and the privacy of blockchain 
transactions. Processing energy transfers and maintaining user privacy present a signifi-
cant difficulty for P2P platforms. The implementation of blockchain technology for EV 
applications with WSN infrastructure is hindered by the high resource required and trans-
action cost in terms of energy consumption. If these barriers could be removed, blockchain 
technology would become the most critical component in EV development. Possible solu-
tions include the creation of compact blockchain algorithms for real-time consensus. 
3.4. Blockchain for Renewable Microgrids 
Each day brings more evidence of the ongoing shift and development toward a re-
newable grid based on a wide variety of decentralized energy sources, including solar 
panels, fuel cells, microturbines, batteries, and so on. Blockchain technology is essential to 
the smooth execution of these changes. Figure 6 depicts the MG application’s generic 
blockchain architecture. A zone’s electrical grid often covers a significant region, requiring 
many MGs to be considered. These many MGs are linked together through the blockchain 
system. Without compromising data quality or transparency, the blockchain network in-
tends to improve safety and confidentiality in the MG operation. The produced energy, 
the power to be transferred with other microgrids, etc., are all included in the data block. 
Each freshly created block of MG data is verified by a consensus method to ensure its 
accuracy. After the block has been confirmed, it is added to the blockchain and the net-
work. Blockchain nodes need appropriate algorithms to agree on the nature of the energy 
being transferred, the value of the power being sold, etc. 
 
Figure 6. Blockchain architecture for MG. 
Blockchain is viewed as a promising solution in renewable microgrids for efficient 
operation, such as complex point-to-point transactions between producers, traders, and 
users using intricate algorithms to validate, secure, and record these transactions. This is 
due to the growing community, financial, diplomatic, and environmental impacts and 
Figure 6. Blockchain architecture for MG.
Blockchain is viewed as a promising solution in renewable microgrids for efficient op-
eration, such as complex point-to-point transactions between producers, traders, and users
using intricate algorithms to validate, secure, and record these transactions. This is due to
the growing community, financial, diplomatic, and environmental impacts and approaches,
such as boosting power consumption, dealing with the middleman, market liberalization,
and pollution. From a variety of angles, many authors have examined blockchain in the
context of microgrids. The necessity of blockchain, its advantages, and its difficulties were
discussed in [59]. Real-world solutions were provided in [11], including the Brooklyn
Microgrid, which is based on a blockchain environment and uses the proof-of-work (PoW)
mechanism. For individuals who want to suggest and execute workable solutions and
approaches for renewable microgrids based on blockchain technology, additional thorough
studies can be found in [60]. Furthermore, red. [61] presents an effective P2P blockchain-
based energy market between a microgrid and a smart grid, with the distributed consensus
algorithm being tested in the presence of a fault data injection attack (FDIA). In the face of a
Energies 2023, 16, 820 10 of 29
cyberattack, this paper’s primary results demonstrated that the general agreement process
continues, with the P2P market’s production response coming dangerously near to that
of the centralized energy market. In keeping with the solution’s spirit, the authors in [62]
proposed a concept for a blockchain-based incorporated energy management platform
and a bilateral trading mechanism that, according to the simulation findings, significantly
optimizes energy flow in a microgrid. In [60], a different model for blockchain-based energy
systems was proposed, with a Pythagorean fuzzy technique proposed for selecting the
optimal energy generation, distribution, and disposal. Results indicating greater profitabil-
ity and lower CO2 emissions were also published in [63], which presents a different P2P
energy trading method among the distributed generations based on the same technique
employing a fuzzy meta-heuristic method as a pricing solution. In addition, the advantages
of combining the power market with blockchain were investigated in [64] where transac-
tions were emphasized utilizing a multi-agent coordination and trading model based on
the Ethereum private blockchain. As we go further into the issue in this section, we find
that blockchain applications vary depending on the underlying infrastructure technology
of microgrids, such as in the case of AC, DC, or hybrid AC–DC MGs [65–67].
Challenges and Solutions: Blockchain-based renewable microgrids [68,69] provide
many benefits but face significant obstacles. Limitations in technology, finances, society, the
environment, politics and institutions, rules and regulations, social norms, and privacy and
security from the beginning to the end are all obstacles to overcome. Key elements, such
as privacy, resource management, restrictions, and prices, remain challenging to reconcile
practically and effectively. Consortiums run microgrids in various ways; thus, evaluating
and settling on the best algorithm or procedures to use; the most appropriate technology;
the most appropriate investor; and a highly qualified workforce are essential.
3.5. Blockchain for Energy Management System
A distributed system’s development and implementation by incorporating blockchain
gives more advantages to both producers and users in the energy market. Wind and
solar powers are becoming more popular sources of renewable energy, and as a result, the
structure of the energy market and the need for safe energy transactions have evolved
to accommodate this growth [70]. This can be accomplished with the use of blockchain
technology. Energy marketing transactions have tremendous promise for blockchain’s
distributed ledger technology. An EMS aims to facilitate trustworthy real-time trading of
energy among all participants in the energy market, including but not limited to generating
systems (including renewable and nonrenewable energy sources), consumer services,
energy providers, etc. [62]. Figure 7 depicts the blockchain architecture used by an EMS.
The SG plans to combine alternative and traditional power plants. On the demand
side, we have private residences, apartment complexes, office buildings, shopping centers,
etc. Additionally, EV charging facilities are under the purview of SG shoppers. However,
the entities in the consumer domain not only use power but also generate it. Prosumers
are a term used to describe this kind of customer. Prosumers help ease the power grid’s
strain when they store and use energy surpluses. While this relieves pressure on the
power grid, it also makes it critical to track who buys and sells electricity. Safeguards to
protect both parties’ personal information are equally crucial to the success of the energy
marketplace. Blockchain technology may be included into the EMS to accomplish this
goal. As depicted in Figure 7, the blockchain’s network seeks to connect all SG areas,
including the generating system, the technical infrastructure, the consumption system,
the regulator, and the control center. Through its distributed nature, interoperability, and
smart contracts, the blockchain-based EMS protects the privacy and integrity of energy
transactions. Private blockchains may integrate data controls and selective group access
to guarantee safety and privacy in the energy trading market. The blockchain-based EMS
improves transparency in P2P energy trading without jeopardizing users’ right to privacy
because to its decentralized nature.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 11 of 29
Challenges and Solutions: Challenges in trading arise as energy expenditures go up
for which the trading system requires stringent regulation; it cannot be allowed to operate
unchecked. Stringent management of this trading system is essential because as the energy
trade rises, the challenges increase more. As a result, in [71], a mechanism for managing
energy transactions online was presented, allowing customers to learn more about their
own pricing and consumption habits. In ref. [72], Yi Zhang et al. addressed the security
issue for users and energy flow. An online double auction-based energy market structure
was presented by S.N.G. Gourisetti et al. in [73]. Because of blockchain technology, we can
now have smart meters with extra privacy and safety features. Furthermore, a platform
to monitor the energy produced from renewable sources by storing and selling energy
between residences and communication networks of users was suggested in [74]. The
study about applications of blockchain technology in different SG domains is summarized
in Table 2 as follows [75].
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 11 of 29 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Blockchain architecture used by an EMS. 
The SG plans to combine alternative and traditional power plants. On the demand 
side, we have private residences, apartment complexes, office buildings, shopping cen-
ters, etc. Additionally, EV charging facilities are under the purview of SG shoppers. How-
ever, the entities in the consumer domain not only use power but also generate it. Prosum-
ers are a term used to describe this kind of customer. Prosumers help ease the power grid’s 
strain when they store and use energy surpluses. While this relieves pressure on the 
power grid, it also makes it critical to track who buys and sells electricity. Safeguards to 
protect both parties’ personal information are equally crucial to the success of the energy 
marketplace. Blockchain technology may be included into the EMS to accomplish this 
goal. As depicted in Figure 7, the blockchain’s network seeks to connect all SG areas, in-
cluding the generating system, the technical infrastructure, the consumption system, the 
regulator, and the control center. Through its distributed nature, interoperability, and 
smart contracts, the blockchain-based EMS protects the privacy and integrity of energy 
transactions. Private blockchains may integrate data controls and selective group access 
to guarantee safety and privacy in the energy trading market. The blockchain-based EMS 
improves transparency in P2P energy trading without jeopardizing users’ right to privacy 
because to its decentralized nature. 
Challenges and Solutions: Challenges in trading arise as energy expenditures go up 
for which the trading system requires stringent regulation; it cannot be allowed to operate 
unchecked. Stringent management of this trading system is essential because as the en-
ergy trade rises, the challenges increase more. As a result, in [71], a mechanism for man-
aging energy transactions online was presented, allowing customers to learn more about 
their own pricing and consumption habits. In ref. [72], Yi Zhang et al. addressed the secu-
rity issue for users and energy flow. An online double auction-based energy market struc-
ture was presented by S.N.G. Gourisetti et al. in [73]. Because of blockchain technology, 
we can now have smart meters with extra privacy and safety features. Furthermore, a 
platform to monitor the energy produced from renewable sources by storing and selling 
energy between residences and communication networks of users was suggested in [74]. 
The study about applications of blockchain technology in different SG domains is sum-
marized in Table 2 as follows [75]. 
  
Figure 7. Blockchain architecture used by an EMS.
Table 2. Applications of blockchain technology in different SG domains.
Application Area Description Domain Mechanism Used
Home Automation
(HA)
While computationally quick and affordable, access
control in smart homes is vulnerable to malicious assaults. Access control Private blockchain
Secure method of transferring medical data to the medical
facility, but has higher overhead Home care Ethereum blockchain
Reduces communication overhead but adds extra
overhead when sending patient data. Home care Private blockchain
Decreases the block size for charging bill payment.
Cyberattacks could happen because of this as well.
EV-charging bill
payment
Lightweight basic
blockchain
The storage of older people’s data is efficient and of
higher quality, but it is subject to DoS attacks. Home care Consortium
blockchain
A scalable but pricey method of IoT device authentication Authentication
mechanism Ethereum blockchain
A very flexible automated payment system with off-chain
transaction support Automated payment Bitcoin blockchain
A quick and efficient payment procedure. This might be
open to nefarious attacks.
Lightweight
payment system NA
Energies 2023, 16, 820 12 of 29
Table 2. Cont.
Application Area Description Domain Mechanism Used
Electric Vehicles
(EVs)
Utilizing a game-theoretic method to effectively distribute
mining duties to the mining clusters
V2X
communications
Blockchain-based
cellular V2X
networks
Deploying a novel framework (secure V2X) while
protecting the confidentiality and security of the
V2X protocol
Secure V2X
communications
Blockchain and
NDN (named data
networking)
Maintaining data confidentiality and information
anonymity while improving the distribution network and
renewable energy network.
Energy trading and
charging payment
system for EVs
Private blockchain
Charging management framework with crediting in the
safety zone of the energy flows between the owners and
the companies.
Charging
management
Ethereum blockchain
platform
Residential energy trading systems with reduced impact
on the energy distribution network. Blockchain platform Ethereum blockchain
platform
Microgrids (MGs)
Economic and energy blockchain-based flow with fund
authentication and automatic control of transactions. Local energy market Public blockchain
Decrease electricity costs for each time slot and local
energy demand and generation balance, and optimize
energy use, particularly during peak hours.
Local energy mar-
ket/microgrid/smart
grid
Private blockchain
with PoW
mechanism
Decentralized market mechanism Microgrid/smart
grid Private blockchain
Lower electricity price control over power generation, and
full self-consumption of renewable energy
Local energy
market/microgrid Public blockchain
Both a decentralized and a semi-centralized structure are
suggested. Framework 2 utilizes fewer transactions, is
more flexible, and is less secure compared to Framework
1, which uses more transactions.
Local energy
market/microgrid
Solc, Mocha, React.js,
Next.js, Ganachecli,
Metamask,
Ganache-cli, and
Web3
Ensure security and reach consensus when
cyberattacks happen.
Microgrid/smart
grid
Either public or
private blockchain
Improve microgrid energy flow and lower import prices Microgrid Private blockchain
Framework and proposed methodology for
energy management Renewable energy Either public or
private blockchain
Energy Management
Systems (EMS)
Real-time consumer transaction verification, risk
management for energy transactions, and security
Secure energy
transaction Blockchain
Determining the energy trade’s open price and allowing
network members to monitor transactions Energy price Blockchain
Lowering the cost of electricity needed to power the
blockchain’s operations while also improving the
technology’s energy efficiency
Blockchain
performance.
Blockchain-based
virtual electricity
generation
Blockchain
Securing energy flow and users, as well as differentiating
prices based on a classification of providers
and consumers.
Smart contract
trading Blockchain
Energy architecture objectives, and increased security Energy market Blockchain
Energy trading between residents Energy trading Blockchain
Energy trading with low transaction costs Renewable energy Blockchain
Energies 2023, 16, 820 13 of 29
Table 2. Cont.
Application Area Description Domain Mechanism Used
Cloud service platform design for energy trading
without intermediaries Smart contract Blockchain
Trading through a secure decentralized system and
smart contracts
Blockchain evolution
and challenges Blockchain
Smart Cities (SCs)
Enhancing citizens’ standards of living Smart village
architecture
Blockchain in
healthcare
Online consultation data storage security, privacy,
and integrity
Application of BC in
the health system
Blockchain in
healthcare
How to use BC technology in the medical field to keep
track of the patient’s health. Effective data management
and real-time patient monitoring
Application of BC
technology in the
healthcare
Blockchain in
healthcare
Modernizing the healthcare system with improved data
security, privacy, and integrity
Public health in the
smart society
Blockchain in
healthcare
A combination strategy based on off-chain storage and
on-chain verification to increase privacy and security
Development of a
BC based platform
for healthcare
Blockchain in
healthcare
Exploiting photovoltaic parks, reducing pollution, selling
extra energy, and lowering production costs
Green energy
marketing
Blockchain in
Smart City
Effective trade, high-quality production, and capitalizing
on energy surplus Energy management Blockchain in
Smart City
Energy trading, control, and use for irrigation systems
that is effective
Utilizing renewable
energy for irrigation
Blockchain in
Smart City
Design of a model for processing edge nodes in real time
to increase system resilience
Scalable network of
smart cities with
hybrid architecture
Blockchain in
Smart City
An extensive analysis spanning numerous viewpoints on
blockchain in smart cities and communities
Security issues for
the smart city
Blockchain in
Smart City
Applications and study options for the BC-based smart
city concept Social issues Blockchain in
Smart City
With the deployment of BC, the chain-based food
traceability system was used as a case study to improve
the effectiveness of supply chain management in
the sector.
Supply chain data
management
Blockchain in
Smart City
3.6. Blockchain for Energy Management System
The smart city framework is rapidly changing because of the proliferation of tech-
nologies such as blockchain, the IoT, and cloud computing. The future of the Internet of
Things (IoT) will determine the design of “smart cities”, including the number and type of
sensors and “smart objects” used to gather information about public facilities and services,
as well as the availability of that information to the general public, the effectiveness of envi-
ronmental safeguards, and the level of economic growth. Figure 8 depicts an overarching
blockchain architecture for SCs [76]. It would be impractical to run all of the smart city’s
services on the same blockchain network. Because of this, cities of varying sizes and types
of smart services will need different configurations of blockchain networks. It is possible
that each blockchain may be tailored to the specific needs of a particular application. Data
generated by smart equipment (such as smart cars, smart houses, and smart hospitals) are
recorded in a blockchain. To guarantee the services run well, we will need appropriate
techniques and blockchain frameworks [77].
Energies 2023, 16, 820 14 of 29
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 29 
 
 
3.6. Blockchain for Energy Management System  
The smart city framework is rapidly changing because of the proliferation of technol-
ogies such as blockchain, the IoT, and cloud computing. The future of the Internet of 
Things (IoT) will determine the design of “smart cities”, including the number and type 
of sensors and “smart objects” used to gather information about public facilities and ser-
vices, as well as the availability of that information to the general public, the effectiveness 
of environmental safeguards, and the level of economic growth. Figure 8 depicts an over-
arching blockchain architecture for SCs [76]. It would be impractical to run all of the smart 
city’s services on the same blockchain network. Because of this, cities of varying sizes and 
types of smart services will need different configurations of blockchain networks. It is 
possible that each blockchain may be tailored to the specific needs of a particular applica-
tion. Data generated by smart equipment (such as smart cars, smart houses, and smart 
hospitals) are recorded in a blockchain. To guarantee the services run well, we will need 
appropriate techniques and blockchain frameworks [77]. 
 
Figure 8. Overview of a blockchain architecture for SCs. 
Some of the issues with smart city transportation were discussed in [78,79]. These 
studies showed how to use blockchain, which allows for the use of distributed stored data 
and performs transactions between producers and beneficiaries without the need for in-
termediaries, such as banks or governments, to improve public transportation and logis-
tics [80,81], water supply [82,83], green energy [84,85], the environment [86,87], health 
[88,89], and education [90,91]. Smart contracts are becoming increasingly important in the 
evolution of transactions between parties, and blockchain architecture will bolster this 
trend. These contracts are initiated by either party’s actions (understandings) or by the 
readings of sensors, actuators, or Internet-of-Thing tags [92]. As a result, logistics, energy, 
the ecosystem, water management, health, and other sectors will all benefit from block 
chain technology as they help transform communities into smart cities. 
Figure 8. Overview of a blockchain architecture for SCs.
Some of the issues with smart city transportation were discussed in [78,79]. These stud-
ies showed how to use blockchain, which allows for the use of distributed stored data and
performs transactions between producers and beneficiaries without the need for intermedi-
aries, such as banks or governments, to improve public transportation and logistics [80,81],
water supply [82,83], green energy [84,85], the environment [86,87], health [88,89], and
education [90,91]. Smart contracts are becoming increasingly important in the evolution of
transactions between parties, and blockchain architecture will bolster this trend. These con-
tracts are initiated by either party’s actions (understandings) or by the readings of sensors,
actuators, or Internet-of-Thing tags [92]. As a result, logistics, energy, the ecosystem, water
management, health, and other sectors will all benefit from block chain technology as they
help transform communities into smart cities.
Challenges and Solution: Entities in smart cities come in a wide variety. Smart city
entities employ various blockchain networks, each optimized for particular use cases.
When it comes to smart transportation, for instance, the devices are constantly moving to
new spots, but they are static in terms of smart illumination. The blockchain’s architecture
has to be well thought out before use due to the dispersed nature of the entities. There is a
need for proper research to enhance blockchain technology so that it must be robust and
quick. Furthermore, it might be difficult to obtain data from one blockchain network to
another in the SC because of a lack of compatibility.
4. Blockchain-Enabled Cybersecurity System for Smart Grids
4.1. Common Security Risks in Smart Grids
Smart grids provide a number of possible concerns that might affect both businesses
and normal consumers. Customers’ personal information, among other sensitive pieces of
data, may be at danger if the organization suffers any attack. Customers are vulnerable
even when they are not online because enemies may attempt to snoop on them and steal
private information. The percentage of cyberattacks is higher in the USA compared to any
other country, which is 73%, while all other countries have cyberattacks less than 5%, and
Energies 2023, 16, 820 15 of 29
sector wise, the energy sector has the topmost level of cyberattacks, which is 51%. It is
common knowledge that cyberattacks may severely damage the smart grid. Cyberattacks
may compromise a smart grid’s availability, integrity, and privacy. Most cyberattacks may
be broken down into a wide variety of subtypes, making it hard to list them all. The CIA
Classification for smart grid attacks is listed in Table 3. This section will introduce several
common forms of cyberattacks on the smart grid.
Table 3. CIA classification for smart grid attacks.
CIA Attack
Confidentiality [15]
Social Engineering, Eavesdropping, Traffic Analysis, Unauthorized Access,
Password Pilfering, MITM, Snifitting, Replay, Masquerading, and
Data Injection
Integrity [16]
Tampering, Replay, Wormhole, False Data Injection, Spoofing, Data
Modification, Time Synchronization, Load Drop, MITM,
and Masquerading
Availability [17] Wormhole, Jamming, Denial of service, LDos, Buffer Overflow, Teardrop,
Smurf, MITM, Spoofing, Puppet, Time Synchronization, and Masquerading
4.1.1. Denial-of Service (DoS) Attacks
Distributed denial-of-service (DoS) attack is a kind of cyberattack in which hackers
send out false instructions to a server or network, causing the service to be interrupted,
either momentarily or permanently, for the target audience [93]. To overburden systems
and prevent incomplete queries, attackers repeatedly send many requests to the targeted
computer or resource [94]. The standard DoS attack employs a single computer and a single
communication link to overwhelm the target network or resource. Distributed denial-of-
service (DDoS) attacks are similar in nature but use a group of computers and networks
to overwhelm their intended victim. Since it is hard to halt the attack by limiting a single
source, the consequences of this attack might be far more severe [95].
Current denial-of-service and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on smart
rids target a variety of communication levels, including the application layer, the network
and transport layers, the media access control (MAC) layer, and the physical layer [96].
Due to their poor computing capabilities, application-layer-based DoS/DDoS attacks can
compromise millions of ICT devices in a smart grid [97]. Extreme data volumes are the
mainstay of denial-of-service (DoS) and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on
the network and transport layers, slowing transmission bandwidth in the communication
channels and ultimately impairing access for legitimate users. The quality of end-to-end
communications is at risk from this form of assault [98]. To gain access to the network by
reducing the performance of those who use the same communication channel, a DoS/DDoS
attack at the MAC layer might deliberately tamper with the MAC settings. It is common
knowledge that three types of frames (data frames, control frames, and management
frames) are used to convey information at the MAC layer. While data frames are usually
encrypted, management and control frames are not protected in the same way. As a result,
denial-of-service and distributed denial-of-service attacks may disrupt the control and
management infrastructure. It is a common practice for an attacker to use signal jamming
to conduct a denial-of-service or distributed denial-of-service attack at the physical layer;
all they need is a bridge to the communication channels. According to previous reports,
jammer assaults on a smart grid may cause anything from delayed delivery of time-critical
signals to a total denial of service [99].
4.1.2. False Data Injection Attack (FDIA)
FDIA may have detrimental effects on a power system because it can disrupt the state
estimation process, leading the system operator astray [100]. State estimate is often a vital
part of any control center. It takes raw sensor readings from the SCADA system, filters
Energies 2023, 16, 820 16 of 29
them, and then manipulates each bus’s status. Many power system applications rely on
state estimates’ outcomes [101,102]. False and malicious data information may be used to
deliberately mislead energy management systems’ control and monitoring functionalities
(EMSs). Furthermore, a malevolent assault might lead to disastrous outcomes. The primary
research foci are the theoretical foundations, practical implications, and countermeasures
of FDIAs. The goal of the theoretical work is to develop injection vectors that can evade
detection by the command-and-control server in a variety of scenarios. On the application
side, i.e., energy management systems (EMS) and market management systems, the effect
of FDIAs on power system functioning is evaluated (MMS). The primary responsibility of
the defender is to provide system operators with effective defense tactics [103]. A legal
FDIA may affect the electricity market and energy distribution and disrupt power system
operations. Recently, Xie et al. [104,105] investigated both the ex-ante and ex-post effects of
FDIAs in the electrical market. One of the goals of an assault is to increase one’s gain. As a
rule, they aim to buy virtual power cheaply at one node and then resell it to other nodes
via an FDIA for profit.
4.1.3. Phishing
Since phishing is so simple to do, it might be the initial step in exposing companies
and their consumers to danger. Hackers may get access to sensitive information about
an electricity company if its clients do not properly dispose of their bills and payment
receipts [106]. However, employees may also face threats from inside the company, such
as phishing emails that appear legitimate but really include malware that steals personal
information. Giving information to unreliable sources and understanding the ramifications
of these threats may have a privacy and financial impact on smart grid consumers. Hence,
it is a major issue for designing a defense against phishing assaults [107].
4.1.4. Eavesdropping
Some forms of spoofing attacks include eavesdropping and analyzing traffic patterns.
The intruder may steal private data by eavesdropping on network traffic. Keeping the de-
vices linked to the broader network, which a smart grid relies on, is challenging. Therefore,
it poses a danger to the whole system. Most data security centers are concerned about
smart grid since it presents the most significant threat of data theft [108].
4.2. Security Breaches
A smart grid is a technological composite that uses network and communication
technologies to provide a number of advantages while delivering electricity. Smart grids,
however, may be susceptible to the same dangers associated with online systems. Numer-
ous security breaches have occurred, and these are examined in various papers that detail
the effects of certain significant cyberattacks and provide recommendations for preventing
such assaults in the future [35].
4.2.1. Trojan-Horse Malware Black Energy
A cyberattack incident occurred amid a civil war scenario on 25th December 2015. A
cyberattack on an electrical power plant in the Ukrainian city of Ivano-Frankivsk placed
the lives of 80,000 people in danger by leaving them in the dark. The cyberattack was
performed by utilizing a spear-phishing email and a Trojan-horse software known as the
“BlackEnergy” [108]. This was a very destructive virus that could wipe files, corrupt hard
drives, and even take over afflicted machines. The cyberattack progressed further when the
culprit launched a targeted denial-of-service assault (DoS attack) on the industry’s utility
equipment, disabling the support phone number of the operator at the power plant [109].
Therefore, customers could not report the outage because of the DoS attack. This issue
worsened significantly and severely since the cyberattack stole information and destabilized
a country’s essential infrastructure. Without heat or power, many people perished in the
bitter cold. This is the single most disastrous event in recent history [110].
Energies 2023, 16, 820 17 of 29
4.2.2. Stuxnet
Stuxnet is a dangerous computer worm that attacks SCADA systems (SCADA). In
2010, Stuxnet was discovered for the first time (Denning, 2012). It was speculated that the
United States’ and Israeli spy services were responsible for developing the Stuxnet [111].
The harmful Stuxnet computer worm leverages the Microsoft Windows’ operating system
and networks and is capable of manipulating programmable logic controllers (PLCs), which
are responsible for managing the electromechanical operations of machines. The massive
computer worm Stuxnet managed to enter the control system of Iran’s Nuclear Power Plant,
where it manipulated the (PLCs) that regulated the centrifuges used to separate nuclear
material, causing them to spin faster than normal and rip the machinery apart [112]. In
response to the Stuxnet computer virus, the specialized machinery increased their rotational
speed and promptly began damaging the nuclear fuel. While Stuxnet itself poses little
threat to infected machines, it does perform a check to determine whether the infected
machine is linked to certain Siemens PLC types. The United States and Israel designed
Stuxnet to stop Iran’s nuclear weapon development.
4.2.3. WannaCry Ransomware
WannaCry ransomware was a catastrophic piece of software that brought down the
computers of thousands of average individuals all around the world and crippled major
corporations, such as Renault and FedEx. On 12 May 2017, the WannaCry ransomware was
released. Over 200 thousand machines were infected with the WannaCry Ransomware mal-
ware, which locked data and demanded a fee to decrypt them [113]. If victims did not pay
the USD 300 in bitcoins, the hackers sought to decrypt the whole system and threatened to
wipe all of the system data permanently. According to reports, the WannaCry Ransomware
assault had the greatest effect on NHS hospital systems, resulting in the cancellation of over
19,000 appointments and putting many lives at risk. Twenty million pounds in penalties
and an additional seventy-two million pounds in cleaning up and updating the IT systems
made up the overall cost of rebuilding the NHS’s IT infrastructure [114]. The ransomware
assault was disseminated in a number of different ways, including via phishing emails and
antiquated computers that lacked the latest Microsoft security updates. According to the
joint investigation conducted by the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia,
the assault was carried out by highly skilled hackers from North Korea. As computers in
hospitals are utilized for life-or-death surgeries, the focus on this deadly cyberattack has
created a terrible danger to human lives [115].
4.3. Countermeasures against Cyberattacks
Concerning cybersecurity in smart grids, the information and communication net-
works are particularly exposed to threats and hazards. Practicing certain security risks
preferably requires a security solution to guard against vulnerabilities. The greatest chal-
lenge to a network and system is the dangers and threats that it faces. Figure 9 shows
the classification of smart grid attacks and threats from different sources. Protecting the
integrity of a smart grid system and its data requires a proper protection scheme that can
counterattack to a wide range of cyberattacks. It is believed that using many defensive mea-
sures at different detecting nodes may achieve a protected and secure system. A distributed
denial-of-service (DDoS) assault is one of the most significant dangers to a smart grid
because it may cause the breakdown of the communication networks and control systems
that are the foundation of the smart grid. The two types of strategies against DoS attacks
followed by a discussion of additional counterattacks for smart grid is given as follows.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 18 of 29
Energies 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 29 
 
 
4.3. Countermeasures against Cyberattacks 
Concerning cybersecurity in smart grids, the information and communication net-
works are particularly exposed to threats and hazards. Practicing certain security risks 
preferably requires a security solution to guard against vulnerabilities. The greatest chal-
lenge to a network and system is the dangers and threats that it faces. Figure 9 shows the 
classification of smart grid attacks and threats from different sources. Protecting the in-
tegrity of a smart grid system and its data requires a proper protection scheme that can 
counterattack to a wide range of cyberattacks. It is believed that using many defensive 
measures at different detecting nodes may achieve a protected and secure system. A dis-
tributed denial-of-service (DDoS) assault is one of the most significant dangers to a smart 
grid because it may cause the breakdown of the communication networks and control 
systems that are the foundation of the smart grid. The two types of strategies against DoS 
attacks followed by a discussion of additional counterattacks for smart grid is given as 
follows. 
 
Figure 9. Classification of smart grid attacks and threats from different sources. 
4.3.1. Detection and Defense for DoS Attack 
DoS cyberattacks may be initiated from anywhere in the globe with access to com-
munication networks including the Internet, and a smart grid must be able to identify and 
defend against these attacks. Obviously, the first step in taking precautions against as-
saults is to identify them [116]. Detection based on the signal itself occurs at the physical 
MAC layer. By receiving the signal and gauging its intensity, a DoS attack detector may 
determine whether an attack is in progress and sound an alert if one is. Detection based 
on individual packets is a method that may be used to evaluate the transmission’s success 
across any number of layers. Given that DoS assaults often cause packet loss or delay, and, 
consequently, a decline in network performance, this is a common and efficient strategy. 
DoS attacks may be detected, and the security of a network can be tested or measured by 
sending out probe packets in advance. The hybrid approach aims to improve the accuracy 
of threat detection by designing a single integrated strategy out of two or more methods 
[117]. 
Defense, in the form of attack mitigation measures, may be deployed to protect a 
network against DoS assaults after they have been identified. There are two primary cat-
egories of countermeasures: those that operate at the network layer and those that operate 
at the physical layer. Defenses against denial-of-service attacks that include some kind of 
Figure 9. Classification of smart grid attacks and threats from different sources.
4.3.1. Detection and Defense for DoS Attack
DoS cyberattacks may be initiated from anywhere in the globe with access to com-
munication networks including the Internet, and a smart grid must be able to identify
and defend against these attacks. Obviously, the first step in taking precautions against
assaults is to identify them [116]. Detection based on the signal itself occurs at the physical
MAC layer. By receiving the signal and gauging its intensity, a DoS attack detector may
determine whether an attack is in progress and sound an alert if one is. Detection based
on individual packets is a method that may be used to evaluate the transmission’s success
across any number of layers. Given that DoS assaults often cause packet loss or delay, and,
consequently, a decline in network performance, this is a common and efficient strategy.
DoS attacks may be detected, and the security of a network can be tested or measured
by sending out probe packets in advance. The hybrid approach aims to improve the ac-
curacy of threat detection by designing a single integrated strategy out of two or more
methods [117].
Defense, in the form of attack mitigation measures, may be deployed to protect a
network against DoS assaults after they have been identified. There are two primary
categories of countermeasures: those that operate at the network layer and those that
operate at the physical layer. Defenses against denial-of-service attacks that include some
kind of network layer mitigation are rate limiting, filtering, and reconfiguration. The goal of
rate-limiting technique is to restrict the transmission speed of malicious packets. Filtering
employs a filtering system based on comparing packet source addresses to a blacklist,
blocking any suspicious traffic so the attacking packets will not reach their intended targets
in this manner. Reconfiguring the network’s architecture to provide the victim extra
resources or shut down the attacking nodes is one approach [118]. In a wireless smart
grid, a wireless jamming attack should be the principal denial-of-service attack. Jamming-
resistant techniques have been developed in recent years to reduce the effects of this kind
of assault. In coordinated control, different methods, including direct-sequence spread
spectrum (DSSS), frequency-hopping spread spectrum (FHSS), and chirp spread spectrum
(CSS), are used to protect against wireless cyberattacks. However, in DSSS, the secret is
designed to be unknowable to attackers in a straight sequence, while in FHSS, the secret
is supposed to be unknowable to attackers in a hopping pattern. With uncoordinated
protocols, a new secret is generated randomly for each conversation, making it difficult
for the attackers to gather enough knowledge to disrupt the signal. This approach holds
Energies 2023, 16, 820 19 of 29
significant promise for securing wireless communications in a decentralized setting since it
does not rely on the transmitter and the receiver sharing an assumed secret [119].
4.3.2. Encryption
The stated encryption encodes data so an unauthorized party cannot decode them.
Any piece of information that is encrypted and then any data that the hackers intercept are
useless in the form of raw code. Encryption may be seen as a kind of hidden coding. A
cipher is the method by which your information is encrypted, and a key is the set of rules
that enables you to read the message again [120]. The most highly rated VPN services use
256-bit AES (Advanced Encryption Standard), the industry’s strongest encryption standard,
where 256 is the length of the encryption cipher being employed. With 256-bit encryption,
the number of possible permutations exceeds the number of stars in the Milky Way. Banks
and governments all across the globe rely on this degree of encryption to protect their
sensitive information [121].
4.3.3. Authentication
Robust authentication systems are of utmost importance in situations when it is neces-
sary to maintain authentication and manage access [122]. An “implicit deny policy” may
be useful in implementing authentication and the policy’s usage in allowing only explicit
users access to the network. This policy provides the business with security solutions and
allows for the differentiation of rights across users (e.g., management can view all extra
data linked to projects, while workers have restricted access to data). By limiting access to
trusted employees, you can lessen the likelihood of a security breach and know exactly who
logged in. In addition, SSL protocols may be used to perform authentication. Cyberattacks,
such as denial of service, might compromise the protocols [123]. Because of the increased
bandwidth needed for communication inside a smart grid network, cryptographic methods
may be employed for authentication [124].
4.3.4. Malware Protection
Malware protection is essential for a smart grid because of the need to secure and
protecting the embedded system and the general-purpose systems that are linked to the
smart grid from cyberattacks. To verify the integrity of the embedded software, a manu-
facturer’s key is needed. To provide the solutions, the manufacturer’s software may need
to be authentic, and the company may need to implement risk management in order to
limit the damage that may come from installing counterfeit programs [115]. An alternative
to utilizing the manufacturer’s key is to ensure that the program is authentic and has not
been illegally duplicated. Antivirus software is often used as a first line of defense when
it comes to warding off malware. Threats may become susceptible to malware through
phishing assaults, but the antivirus software must be up to date with the latest patch, and
the attacker must not discover a means to evade the protection. Using a network intrusion
prevention system (NIPS), which can both restrict user access to a network and defend it
from cyberattacks, is the most efficient and secure method for securing a smart grid. In
addition, the NIPS can keep an eye on intrusion data and respond to halt an attack before
it ever begins. Network intrusion detection systems (NIDS) provide another option for
smart grid security by monitoring and analyzing the network traffic in order to identify
and prevent network-based attacks [125].
4.3.5. Network Security
VPNs allow users to increase their protection while connecting to a public network
through the Internet. Using public network infrastructure puts sensitive information at risk,
thus a virtual private network (VPN) employs a number of security measures, including
encryption, to safeguard data in transit. Furthermore, virtual private networks (VPNs) are
employed for communication since they provide a safe channel for data transfer. There
are two distinct VPNs, both of which provide advantages to businesses and their frequent
Energies 2023, 16, 820 20 of 29
customers [126]. Remote access virtual private networks (VPNs) allow users to connect
to internal company networks through a public network. After authenticating, users on
mobile devices and desktop computers will be able to access the VPN server. When the
credentials are right, the authentication is able to confirm access and provide access to the
virtual network’s resources. An organization’s proprietary apps and data are among the
resources that are accessible solely inside the company. Connecting to a VPN gateway
allows users of the remote access VPN to perform their duties from any location. Virtual
private networking (VPN) between two sites is quite similar to VPN access from a remote
location. However, it often links the whole network in a single spot, even if the networks
themselves are situated elsewhere; this is helpful for a bigger company that has to safely
share its resources with several outposts in different areas to serve its partner or client
business [127].
4.3.6. Risk and Maturity Assessments
Recent years have seen the development of a variety of ingenious methods for ef-
ficiently conducting cybersecurity risk assessments and executing mitigations in exten-
sive, sophisticated networks and infrastructure where complete security audits cannot be
performed owing to time and capacity constraints. Cyber defense triage is a technique
proposed by [128] that helps identify high-impact attack areas that need security solutions
immediately. Again, security holes and weak spots may be found and corrected if a matu-
rity assessment is performed, as suggested in [129]. This includes risk assessment, which is
only one of several controls that can be reviewed.
4.3.7. IPS and IDS
Technologies for identifying and blocking intrusions in a network include intrusion
prevention systems (IPS) and intrusion detection systems (IDS). An IPS is a kind of network
protection that can recognize and stop certain attacks [130]. Intrusion prevention systems
constantly monitor your network, recording any suspicious activity. An IPS alerts the
system administrators and they shut down the access points and set up the firewalls to
avoid further assaults. It is possible to utilize an IPS to detect when workers or visitors to a
network are breaking the regulations set out by the company. In contrast, an IDS is just
tasked with monitoring the network and alerting system administrators to any suspicious
activity [131].
5. Blockchain Implication for Cybersecurity of Smart Grid Paradigm
Considering a more diverse and dispersed structure for SG is necessary in light of
the urgent need to include renewable energy sources. This goal has been accomplished
with the use of a DER and a decentralized power-generating system [132]. However, this
has added further layers of complexity to the SG. PMUs, smart meters, home automation
sensors, remote terminal units, etc., are only a few examples of the equipment that make up
a SG’s complex infrastructure, which also includes devices from the generation, transmis-
sion, distribution, user, operation, marketing, and utility domains [133]. Maintaining the
reliability of this fantastic SG infrastructure needs constant vigilance. Different applications
are needed for a different set of communication tools and protocols. A wide area network
(WAN) serves as the backbone of the communication system (WAN). Local area networks
(LAN), home area networks (HAN), wireless sensor networks (WSN), neighborhood area
networks (NAN), etc. are a few examples of various forms of communication networks.
The TCP/IP protocol suite is widely used for data transmission over these communication
networks. In short, TCP/IP is not a safe protocol to use. As a result, the SG apps’ commu-
nication network is very susceptible to assault. Although a SG has adopted some basic
security measures, such as a firewall, intrusion detection, encryption, and authentication, it
is still susceptible to a number of cyberattacks. In [134], the author provides a thorough
overview of the different detection techniques available for spotting cases of erroneous
data injection.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 21 of 29
Generally speaking, a SG fits the profile of a cyber-physical system [135,136]. Cyberse-
curity is an essential factor that guarantees the three key properties of every cyber-physical
system: availability, confidentiality, and integrity. As a property, “availability” means
that all information may be accessed quickly and easily. Depending on the severity of the
cyberattack, availability may be hindered by data blockage, data delay, data corruption,
or data loss. Cyberattacks have a significant effect on the accessibility of SG apps. To
prevent other parties from gaining access to sensitive or private data, the system is said to
have the quality of confidentiality. The privacy and copyrights of a SG application might
be jeopardized by a hack on confidentially. Theft of password-related information is one
way that such accidents might allow unauthorized access to the program, which can have
catastrophic effects on its functioning. To prevent tampering, corruption, or deletion of
data, integrity is defined as the capacity of an application to prevent unwanted access to
its storage system. Information used to setup an application may be compromised by an
assault on its integrity, resulting in a catastrophic loss. The sensors, for instance, may end
up misconfigured due to the change data, which would then cause the SG program to
fail. Blockchain is an open, decentralized ledger that cannot be altered once it has been
created and does not need a trusted third party to function. Because of this, blockchain is
an essential component of SG apps because it provides a safe means of transferring data.
The security of a SG application may be fortified by using a blockchain to specifically coun-
teract threats. Due to the numerous types of participants and the diverse ways in which
agreement is reached, a public blockchain is the safest of the different types of blockchains.
Members of the public blockchain may maintain their anonymity, but only trustworthy
nodes are allowed to participate in the consortium and private blockchains. Proof of work
is used as the consensus method in the public blockchain, whereas multi-party voting
and rigorously pre-approved nodes are used in the consortium blockchain and private
blockchain, respectively. However, the processing cost of a public blockchain is quite high.
Therefore, consortium and private blockchains are preferred over public blockchains when
security concerns are minimal and computational complexity is low.
Smart devices create data that are sent to the blockchain network server through the
TCP/IP protocol. The data may be hashed and encrypted at the device level, forming
the block that can later be added to the blockchain network if the devices have sufficient
processing capacity. This is the safest design since if the data are altered once they leave
the devices, they will invalidate the block because of the update in the hash function. This,
however, places significant computational strain on the end nodes, which are often already
performing many simultaneous activities. Another option is to use TCP/IP to transfer data
to blockchain servers/nodes and then construct blockchain blocks. Though less safe, it
lacks the computing capability of more advanced smart gadgets. The latter is where the use
of private and public keys for further authentication might be useful. Since all consortium
blockchain members are known and trustworthy, and the consensus method is centered
on multi-party consensus with no anonymity loopholes, this design intends to maximize
security. The administration and the management choose the nodes that will participate in
mining on the consortium and private blockchains.
6. Challenges and Potential Future Research Directions
To fully realize blockchain’s potential as a game-changing component, a number
of significant issues related to scalability, computing cost, security, and privacy need to
be resolved.
Scalability limitations: The throughput, efficiency, and computing cost of existing
blockchain systems are all too often inadequate. Many blockchains now have long process-
ing times for transactions to be put into the chain of previously verified blocks because
of limitations in block size. As a result, block time grows exponentially, degrading the
system’s efficiency. If every transaction is recorded in the distributed ledger, it will grow
to be enormous very quickly [137,138]. IoT data are massive because of the complexity of
IoT use cases, such as smart cities and eHealth. As a result, the amount of data generated
Energies 2023, 16, 820 22 of 29
by IoT devices will explode, making it difficult for a blockchain to handle such massive
data sets. As a result of these drawbacks, many app developers do not consider blockchain
technology to be a viable replacement for the status quo in managing complex IoT net-
works [139–141]. High computational cost: As the computational cost of a blockchain, the
fee for executing a transaction was published by Wood et al. [142]. There are several moving
parts in the execution of a transaction, such as creating robust security, mining, verifying,
and storing it across a distributed network of users [143]. Together, these procedures need
a considerable amount of processing time. Some mining methods, such proof of work
(PoW), proof of stake (PoS), and practical Byzantine fault tolerance (pBFT), need much
more power than others. To validate transactions, for example, proof of work (PoW), the
most decentralized mining mechanism, involves solving a complex mathematical problem.
IoT systems struggle to match the resource requirements of PoW for qualifying the most
decentralized nature because of their limited resources. The complexity of a blockchain
system will need substantial technological and human resources, even for IoT devices
with reasonably high processing capabilities. Concerns about high maintenance costs from
consumers would be sparked, preventing the widespread use of blockchain-based services.
Security and privacy issue: Blockchain technology is resilient to DDoS, Sybil, selfish
mining, and ransomware, but the current implementation has its own security issues.
Blockchain’s consensus mechanisms and the confirmation of new transactions are vulnera-
ble to manipulation by actors that control more than 50% of the computers operating the
blockchain. In Bitcoin parlance, this is known as a 51% assault. Blockchains are vulnerable
to data loss and network interruption if their transactions are not closely monitored. Sybil
attacks include malevolent nodes creating many identities in order to deceive others by
reporting incorrect information or overwhelming the network with fraudulent transac-
tions [144,145]. Distributed denial-of-service attacks is more challenging on a blockchain
network. However, DDoS assaults and similar message-stealing attacks are particularly
prevalent on blockchain networks [146]. DDoS attacks target monetary services, including
mining, electronic wallets, and cryptocurrency exchanges. Selfish mining is a technique
used in bitcoin mining wherein a group of miners pool their resources in order to maximize
their revenue. In selfish mining, a miner (or group of miners) deliberately withholds
or releases blocks from the network to maximize their financial gain [147–151]. Storing
all types of health data on a blockchain creates a delay in performing transactions and
risks data leakage and revelation of patients’ sensitive information, despite the fact that
blockchain and IoT can facilitate secure data exchange.
More research into the construction of a blockchain-based smart grid framework,
including an IDS and DAPPS tailored to smart grid applications, may be pursued using
various architectural approaches. Considering DDoS attacks, FDIA attacks, breaches, and
man-in-the-middle attacks, a testing framework for a blockchain-enabled smart grid may
be researched and created. Multiple distributed blockchain networks may be combined
to form the blockchain network of the whole transmission system, a potential benefit
of the distributed implementation of the blockchain with smart contract functions. The
ability to monitor and regulate the transmission system in a decentralized, cyber-secured
environment can deal with the rising number of distributed generators (DGs) and protect
the system’s functioning from a single point of failure. A power grid, for instance, may
be partitioned into areas, each of which would be monitored by a unique collection of
ICT devices enabled by the Internet of Things (IoT) and equipped with smart contracts
containing the governing logic and algorithms. It is possible to designate one area as
the command center and then create a system for invoking contracts across separated
areas that considers the time syncing of sensors and actuators. The distributed control
algorithm must provide individual subcontracts for regional generation and consumption
control. Additionally, sophisticated algorithms for cyber-protected RTU and IED control
in the smart grid may be built as part of blockchain-based smart contracts. To regulate
voltage, tap changers in the electrical grid may be operated using smart controls stored on
the blockchain.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 23 of 29
7. Conclusions
As data storage and processing capabilities improve, so does SG. Blockchain is one
such innovation that has the ability to revolutionize a SG’s internal financial dealings. The
blockchain may be used to authorize transactions without a central authority since it is
a decentralized and secure system. It has been underused for SG applications despite its
enormous utility in other fields. In this study, we looked at blockchain technology from
the point of view of its potential usefulness in SG settings. Important SG applications
were outlined, along with suggested general structures and highlighted obstacles. The
analysis could help researchers focus their efforts on creating unique technologies that can
handle the demands of real-world SG applications. From many vantage points, blockchain-
based technologies are still in their infancy and represent unsolved research questions
for the future. Many SG apps run in real time, and the blockchain should not slow
them down. Computing demands place a heavy burden on the resources available in
blockchain-based systems. Blockchain technology has to be optimized to run on less
resource-intensive frameworks without sacrificing security. To make this technology widely
used and interoperable, regulators will need to establish standardized processes. Future
study into some of these questions has the potential to alter the landscape of blockchain-
based systems radically.
Competency- and productivity-wise, smart grids outperform their historical coun-
terparts because they are more secure, employ more renewable energy sources, enhance
energy management efficiency, lower consumers’ electricity bills, and cut down on green-
house gas emissions and reduce their environmental impact. Yet, another internet-wide
cybersecurity risk will be introduced by this novel system. As the conventional power grid
increasingly relies on private networks that do not need a major cybersecurity concern,
the importance of cybersecurity in the power sector grows. As a result, cybersecurity in
smart grid is an emerging area of study that is gaining traction in both the academic circles
and the business world. While several papers have discussed the security advantages
and vulnerabilities of smart grids in their study, almost all of them have concluded that
a denial-of-service attack is the greatest danger to smart grid that makes it vulnerable to
network attacks, which would effectively shut down the whole grid.
This article provides an overview and discussion of cybersecurity in the smart grid
context. Several significant cyberattack models have been given, along with defensive
strategies to counteract them. This study also considers potential smart grid-related dif-
ficulties. The complexity of smart grids arises from the wide range of devices that must
communicate over an extensive network coverage. The most challenging part of securing
these devices is to protect them against cyberattacks over large geographical networks.
Finally, computer network protocols must be updated to reflect the current communication
state to provide complex encryption techniques and offer security countermeasures. As a
result, it will protect us from more sophisticated cyber threats.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, M.W. and M.A.K.; methodology, M.W., M.A.K., A.G., S.F.,
I.A.S. and P.S.; software, M.W. and M.A.K.; validation, M.W., M.A.K. and A.G.; formal analysis, M.W.,
M.A.K., A.G., S.F., I.A.S. and P.S.; investigation, M.W., M.A.K., A.G., S.F., I.A.S. and P.S.; resources,
M.W., M.A.K., A.G., S.F., I.A.S. and P.S.; data curation, M.W.; writing—original draft preparation,
M.W. and M.A.K.; writing—review and editing, M.W., M.A.K., A.G., S.F., I.A.S. and P.S.; visualization,
M.W., M.A.K., A.G., S.F., I.A.S. and P.S.; supervision, I.A.S.; project administration, I.A.S.; funding
acquisition, P.S. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Data Availability Statement: The data supporting the reported results are available in the manuscript.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Energies 2023, 16, 820 24 of 29
References
1. Jha, A.V.; Ghazali, A.N.; Appasani, B.; Ravariu, C.; Srinivasulu, A. Reliability analysis of smart grid networks Incorporating
hardware failures and packet loss. Rev. Roum. Des Sci. Tech. 2021, 65, 245–252.
2. Mahmoud, M.A.; Md Nasir, N.R.; Gurunathan, M.; Raj, P.; Mostafa, S. The current state of the art in research on predictive
maintenance in smart grid distribution network: Fault’s types, causes, and prediction methods—A systematic review. Energies
2021, 14, 5078. [CrossRef]
3. Appasani, B.; Jha, A.V.; Mishra, S.K.; Ghazali, A.N. Communication infrastructure for situational awareness enhancement in
WAMS with optimal PMU placement. Prot. Control Mod. Power Syst. 2021, 6, 9. [CrossRef]
4. Kaltakis, K.; Polyzi, P.; Drosatos, G.; Rantos, K. Privacy-Preserving Solutions in Blockchain-Enabled Internet of Vehicles. Appl. Sci.
2021, 11, 9792. [CrossRef]
5. Yapa, C.; de Alwis, C.; Liyanage, M.; Ekanayake, J. Survey on blockchain for future smart grids: Technical aspects, applications,
integration challenges and future research. Energy Rep. 2021, 7, 6530–6564. [CrossRef]
6. Baidya, S.; Potdar, V.; Ray, P.P.; Nandi, C. Reviewing the opportunities, challenges, and future directions for the digitalization of
energy. Energy Res. Soc. Sci. 2021, 81, 102243. [CrossRef]
7. Ma, Z.; Clausen, A.; Lin, Y.; Jørgensen, B.N. An overview of digitalization for the building-to-grid ecosystem. Energy Inform. 2021,
4, 36. [CrossRef]
8. Liu, C.; Zhang, X.; Chai, K.K.; Loo, J.; Chen, Y. A survey on blockchain-enabled smart grids: Advances, applications and
challenges. IET Smart Cities 2021, 3, 56–78. [CrossRef]
9. Hasankhani, A.; Hakimi, S.M.; Bisheh-Niasar, M.; Shafie-khah, M.; Asadolahi, H. Blockchain technology in the future smart grids:
A comprehensive review and frameworks. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2021, 129, 106811. [CrossRef]
10. Yagmur, A.; Dedeturk, B.A.; Soran, A.; Jung, J.; Onen, A. Blockchain-based energy applications: The DSO perspective. IEEE
Access 2021, 9, 145605–145625. [CrossRef]
11. Mollah, M.B.; Zhao, J.; Niyato, D.; Lam, K.-Y.; Zhang, X.; Ghias, A.M.; Koh, L.H.; Yang, L. Blockchain for future smart grid: A
comprehensive survey. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 18–43. [CrossRef]
12. Kumar, N.M.; Chand, A.A.; Malvoni, M.; Prasad, K.A.; Mamun, K.A.; Islam, F.; Chopra, S.S. Distributed energy resources and the
application of AI, IoT, and blockchain in smart grids. Energies 2020, 13, 5739. [CrossRef]
13. Miglani, A.; Kumar, N.; Chamola, V.; Zeadally, S. Blockchain for Internet of Energy management: Review, solutions, and
challenges. Comput. Commun. 2020, 151, 395–418. [CrossRef]
14. Zia, M.F.; Benbouzid, M.; Elbouchikhi, E.; Muyeen, S.; Techato, K.; Guerrero, J.M.J.I.A. Microgrid transactive energy: Review,
architectures, distributed ledger technologies, and market analysis. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 19410–19432. [CrossRef]
15. Guru, D.; Perumal, S.; Varadarajan, V. Approaches towards blockchain innovation: A survey and future directions. Electronics
2021, 10, 1219. [CrossRef]
16. Khajeh, H.; Laaksonen, H.; Gazafroudi, A.S.; Shafie-khah, M. Towards flexibility trading at TSO-DSO-customer levels: A review.
Energies 2019, 13, 165. [CrossRef]
17. Liaqat, R.; Sajjad, I.A.; Waseem, M.; Alhelou, H.H. Appliance Level Energy Characterization of Residential Electricity Demand:
Prospects, Challenges and Recommendations. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 148676–148697. [CrossRef]
18. Wang, Q.; Li, R.; Zhan, L. Blockchain technology in the energy sector: From basic research to real world applications. Comput. Sci.
Rev. 2021, 39, 100362. [CrossRef]
19. Khan, T.; Yu, M.; Waseem, M. Review on recent optimization strategies for hybrid renewable energy system with hydrogen
technologies: State of the art, trends and future directions. Int. J. Hydrogen Energy 2022, 47, 25155–25201. [CrossRef]
20. Bodkhe, U.; Tanwar, S.; Parekh, K.; Khanpara, P.; Tyagi, S.; Kumar, N.; Alazab, M. Blockchain for industry 4.0: A comprehensive
review. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 79764–79800. [CrossRef]
21. Lim, M.K.; Li, Y.; Wang, C.; Tseng, M.-L. A literature review of blockchain technology applications in supply chains: A
comprehensive analysis of themes, methodologies and industries. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2021, 154, 107133. [CrossRef]
22. Berdik, D.; Otoum, S.; Schmidt, N.; Porter, D.; Jararweh, Y. A survey on blockchain for information systems management and
security. Inf. Process. Manag. 2021, 58, 102397. [CrossRef]
23. Meng, T.; Zhao, Y.; Wolter, K.; Xu, C.-Z. On consortium blockchain consistency: A queueing network model approach. IEEE Trans.
Parallel Distrib. Syst. 2021, 32, 1369–1382. [CrossRef]
24. Bhattacharjee, A.; Badsha, S.; Shahid, A.R.; Livani, H.; Sengupta, S. Block-phasor: A decentralized blockchain framework to
enhance security of synchrophasor. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE Kansas Power and Energy Conference (KPEC), Manhattan,
KS, USA, 13–14 July 2020; pp. 1–6.
25. WU, Z.; LIANG, Y.; KANG, J.; YU, R.; HE, Z. Secure data storage and sharing system based on consortium blockchain in smart
grid. J. Comput. Appl. 2017, 37, 2742.
26. Hasan, M.K.; Alkhalifah, A.; Islam, S.; Babiker, N.; Habib, A.; Aman, A.H.M.; Hossain, M. Blockchain technology on smart
grid, energy trading, and big data: Security issues, challenges, and recommendations. Wirel. Commun. Mob. Comput. 2022,
2022, 9065768. [CrossRef]
27. Kumar, A.; Bhushan, B.; Nand, P. Preventing and Detecting Intrusion of Cyberattacks in Smart Grid by Integrating Blockchain. In
Micro-Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering; Springer: Singapore, 2022; pp. 119–130.
http://doi.org/10.3390/en14165078
http://doi.org/10.1186/s41601-021-00189-9
http://doi.org/10.3390/app11219792
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2021.09.112
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.erss.2021.102243
http://doi.org/10.1186/s42162-021-00156-6
http://doi.org/10.1049/smc2.12010
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.106811
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3122987
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.2993601
http://doi.org/10.3390/en13215739
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2020.01.014
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2968402
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10101219
http://doi.org/10.3390/en13010165
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3123196
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2021.100362
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhydene.2022.05.263
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2988579
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2021.107133
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2020.102397
http://doi.org/10.1109/TPDS.2021.3049915
http://doi.org/10.1155/2022/9065768
Energies 2023, 16, 820 25 of 29
28. Thakare, S.; Pund, M. Introduction to Blockchain and Terminologies. In Blockchain for Smart Systems; Chapman and Hall/CRC:
Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2022; pp. 3–20.
29. Çelik, D.; Meral, M.E.; Waseem, M. The progress, impact analysis, challenges and new perceptions for electric power and energy
sectors in the light of the COVID-19 pandemic. Sustain. Energy Grids Netw. 2022, 31, 100728. [CrossRef]
30. Guo, Y.; Wan, Z.; Cheng, X. When Blockchain Meets Smart Grids: A Comprehensive Survey. High-Confid. Comput. 2022, 2, 100059.
[CrossRef]
31. Çelik, D.; Meral, M.E.; Waseem, M. Scenarios, Virtualization and Applications for Blockchain Technology in Smart Grids. In
Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE Kansas Power and Energy Conference (KPEC), Manhattan, KS, USA, 25–26 April 2022; pp. 1–5.
32. Waseem, M.; Lin, Z.; Liu, S.; Sajjad, I.A.; Aziz, T. Optimal GWCSO-based home appliances scheduling for demand response
considering end-users comfort. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2020, 187, 106477. [CrossRef]
33. Mathew, R.; Mehbodniya, A.; Ambalgi, A.P.; Murali, M.; Sahay, K.B.; Babu, D.V.J.S.E.T. Assessments. In a virtual power plant, a
blockchain-based decentralized power management solution for home distributed generation. Sustain. Energy Technol. Assess.
2022, 49, 101731.
34. Augello, A.; Gallo, P.; Sanseverino, E.R.; Sciumè, G.; Tornatore, M. A Coexistence Analysis of Blockchain, SCADA Systems, and
OpenADR for Energy Services Provision. IEEE Access 2022, 10, 99088–99101. [CrossRef]
35. Goudarzi, A.; Ghayoor, F.; Waseem, M.; Fahad, S.; Traore, I. A Survey on IoT-Enabled Smart Grids: Emerging, Applications,
Challenges, and Outlook. Energies 2022, 15, 6984. [CrossRef]
36. Majeed, R.; Abdullah, N.A.; Ashraf, I.; Zikria, Y.B.; Mushtaq, M.F.; Umer, M. An intelligent, secure, and smart home automation
system. Sci. Program. 2020, 2020, 4579291. [CrossRef]
37. Tian, H.; Jian, Y.; Ge, X. Blockchain-based AMI framework for data security and privacy protection. Sustain. Energy Grids Netw.
2022, 32, 100807. [CrossRef]
38. Khan, M.A.; Sajjad, I.A.; Tahir, M.; Haseeb, A. IOT Application for Energy Management in Smart Homes. Eng. Proc. 2022, 20, 43.
39. Kamal, M.; Tariq, M. Light-weight security and blockchain based provenance for advanced metering infrastructure. IEEE Access
2019, 7, 87345–87356. [CrossRef]
40. Khalid, R.; Javaid, N.; Almogren, A.; Javed, M.U.; Javaid, S.; Zuair, M. A blockchain-based load balancing in decentralized hybrid
P2P energy trading market in smart grid. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 47047–47062. [CrossRef]
41. Sovacool, B.K.; Kester, J.; Noel, L.; de Rubens, G.Z. Actors, business models, and innovation activity systems for vehicle-to-grid
(V2G) technology: A comprehensive review. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2020, 131, 109963. [CrossRef]
42. Islam, M.M.; Shahjalal, M.; Hasan, M.K.; Jang, Y.M. Blockchain-based energy transaction model for electric vehicles in v2g
network. In Proceedings of the 2020 International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Information and Communication
(ICAIIC), Fukuoka, Japan, 19–21 February 2020; pp. 628–630.
43. Rehman, A.; Hassan, M.F.; Yew, K.H.; Paputungan, I.; Tran, D.C. State-of-the-art IoV trust management a meta-synthesis
systematic literature review (SLR). PeerJ Comput. Sci. 2020, 6, e334. [CrossRef]
44. Pal, R.; Chavhan, S.; Gupta, D.; Khanna, A.; Padmanaban, S.; Khan, B.; Rodrigues, J.J. A comprehensive review on IoT-based
infrastructure for smart grid applications. IET Renew. Power Gener. 2021, 15, 3761–3776. [CrossRef]
45. Gschwendtner, C.; Sinsel, S.R.; Stephan, A. Vehicle-to-X (V2X) implementation: An overview of predominate trial configurations
and technical, social and regulatory challenges. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021, 145, 110977. [CrossRef]
46. Khan, M.A.; Ghosh, S.; Busari, S.A.; Huq, K.M.S.; Dagiuklas, T.; Mumtaz, S.; Iqbal, M.; Rodriguez, J. Robust, resilient and reliable
architecture for v2x communications. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2021, 22, 4414–4430. [CrossRef]
47. Nguyen, D.C.; Pathirana, P.N.; Ding, M.; Seneviratne, A. Blockchain for 5G and beyond networks: A state of the art survey.
J. Netw. Comput. Appl. 2020, 166, 102693. [CrossRef]
48. Xu, C.; Wu, H.; Liu, H.; Li, X.; Liu, L.; Wang, P. An intelligent scheduling access privacy protection model of electric vehicle based
on 5G-V2X. Sci. Program. 2021, 2021, 1198794. [CrossRef]
49. Rawat, D.B.; Doku, R.; Adebayo, A.; Bajracharya, C.; Kamhoua, C. Blockchain enabled named data networking for secure
vehicle-to-everything communications. IEEE Netw. 2020, 34, 185–189. [CrossRef]
50. Gomes, L.; Spínola, J.; Vale, Z.; Corchado, J.M. Agent-based architecture for demand side management using real-time resources’
priorities and a deterministic optimization algorithm. J. Clean. Prod. 2019, 241, 118154. [CrossRef]
51. Khan, P.W.; Byun, Y.-C. Blockchain-based peer-to-peer energy trading and charging payment system for electric vehicles.
Sustainability 2021, 13, 7962. [CrossRef]
52. Musleh, A.S.; Yao, G.; Muyeen, S. Blockchain applications in smart grid–review and frameworks. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 86746–86757.
[CrossRef]
53. Sadiq, A.; Javed, M.U.; Khalid, R.; Almogren, A.; Shafiq, M.; Javaid, N. Blockchain based data and energy trading in internet of
electric vehicles. IEEE Access 2020, 9, 7000–7020. [CrossRef]
54. Kim, M.; Park, K.; Yu, S.; Lee, J.; Park, Y.; Lee, S.-W.; Chung, B. A secure charging system for electric vehicles based on blockchain.
Sensors 2019, 19, 3028. [CrossRef]
55. Dorokhova, M.; Vianin, J.; Alder, J.-M.; Ballif, C.; Wyrsch, N.; Wannier, D. A Blockchain-Supported Framework for Charging
Management of Electric Vehicles. Energies 2021, 14, 7144. [CrossRef]
56. Dib, O.; Brousmiche, K.-L.; Durand, A.; Thea, E.; Hamida, E.B. Consortium blockchains: Overview, applications and challenges.
Int. J. Adv. Telecommun. 2018, 11, 51–64.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.segan.2022.100728
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.hcc.2022.100059
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2020.106477
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3205121
http://doi.org/10.3390/en15196984
http://doi.org/10.1155/2020/4579291
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.segan.2022.100807
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2925787
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2979051
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2020.109963
http://doi.org/10.7717/peerj-cs.334
http://doi.org/10.1049/rpg2.12272
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2021.110977
http://doi.org/10.1109/TITS.2021.3084519
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102693
http://doi.org/10.1155/2021/1198794
http://doi.org/10.1109/MNET.001.1900593
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118154
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13147962
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2920682
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3048169
http://doi.org/10.3390/s19133028
http://doi.org/10.3390/en14217144
Energies 2023, 16, 820 26 of 29
57. Saxena, S.; Farag, H.E.; Brookson, A.; Turesson, H.; Kim, H. A permissioned blockchain system to reduce peak demand in
residential communities via energy trading: A real-world case study. IEEE Access 2020, 9, 5517–5530. [CrossRef]
58. Huang, Z.; Li, Z.; Lai, C.S.; Zhao, Z.; Wu, X.; Li, X.; Tong, N.; Lai, L.L. A novel power market mechanism based on blockchain for
electric vehicle charging stations. Electronics 2021, 10, 307. [CrossRef]
59. Vieira, G.; Zhang, J. Peer-to-peer energy trading in a microgrid leveraged by smart contracts. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021,
143, 110900. [CrossRef]
60. Yildizbasi, A. Blockchain and renewable energy: Integration challenges in circular economy era. Renew. Energy 2021, 176, 183–197.
[CrossRef]
61. Kavousi-Fard, A.; Almutairi, A.; Al-Sumaiti, A.; Farughian, A.; Alyami, S. An effective secured peer-to-peer energy market based
on blockchain architecture for the interconnected microgrid and smart grid. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2021, 132, 107171.
[CrossRef]
62. van Leeuwen, G.; AlSkaif, T.; Gibescu, M.; van Sark, W. An integrated blockchain-based energy management platform with
bilateral trading for microgrid communities. Appl. Energy 2020, 263, 114613. [CrossRef]
63. Tsao, Y.-C.; Thanh, V.-V. Toward sustainable microgrids with blockchain technology-based peer-to-peer energy trading mechanism:
A fuzzy meta-heuristic approach. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2021, 136, 110452. [CrossRef]
64. Wang, X.; Liu, P.; Ji, Z. Trading platform for cooperation and sharing based on blockchain within multi-agent energy internet.
Glob. Energy Interconnect. 2021, 4, 384–393. [CrossRef]
65. Li, Q.; Li, A.; Wang, T.; Cai, Y. Interconnected hybrid AC-DC microgrids security enhancement using blockchain technology
considering uncertainty. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2021, 133, 107324. [CrossRef]
66. Wang, T.; Hua, H.; Wei, Z.; Cao, J. Challenges of blockchain in new generation energy systems and future outlooks. Int. J. Electr.
Power Energy Syst. 2022, 135, 107499. [CrossRef]
67. Wang, L.; Ma, Y.; Zhu, L.; Wang, X.; Cong, H.; Shi, T. Design of integrated energy market cloud service platform based on
blockchain smart contract. Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst. 2022, 135, 107515. [CrossRef]
68. Ahl, A.; Yarime, M.; Goto, M.; Chopra, S.S.; Kumar, N.M.; Tanaka, K.; Sagawa, D. Exploring blockchain for the energy transition:
Opportunities and challenges based on a case study in Japan. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2020, 117, 109488. [CrossRef]
69. Khan, M.A.; Ali, A. Hybrid Fuzzy-PI and ANFIS Controller Design for Rotor Current Control of DFIG Based Wind Turbine. Pak.
J. Eng. Technol. 2022, 5, 35–41. [CrossRef]
70. Çelik, D.; Meral, M.E.; Waseem, M. Investigation and analysis of effective approaches, opportunities, bottlenecks and future
potential capabilities for digitalization of energy systems and sustainable development goals. Electr. Power Syst. Res. 2022, 211,
108251. [CrossRef]
71. Hu, W.; Li, H. A blockchain-based secure transaction model for distributed energy in Industrial Internet of Things. Alex. Eng. J.
2021, 60, 491–500. [CrossRef]
72. Zhang, Y.; Shi, Q. An intelligent transaction model for energy blockchain based on diversity of subjects. Alex. Eng. J. 2021, 60,
749–756. [CrossRef]
73. Gourisetti, S.N.G.; Sebastian-Cardenas, D.J.; Bhattarai, B.; Wang, P.; Widergren, S.; Borkum, M.; Randall, A. Blockchain smart
contract reference framework and program logic architecture for transactive energy systems. Appl. Energy 2021, 304, 117860.
[CrossRef]
74. Khan, T.; Waseem, M.; Tahir, M.; Liu, S.; Yu, M. Autonomous hydrogen-based solar-powered energy system for rural electrification
in Balochistan, Pakistan: An energy-economic feasibility analysis. Energy Convers. Manag. 2022, 271, 116284. [CrossRef]
75. Appasani, B.; Mishra, S.K.; Jha, A.V.; Mishra, S.K.; Enescu, F.M.; Sorlei, I.S.; Bîrleanu, F.G.; Takorabet, N.; Thounthong, P.; Bizon,
N. Blockchain-Enabled Smart Grid Applications: Architecture, Challenges, and Solutions. Sustainability 2022, 14, 8801. [CrossRef]
76. Esposito, C.; Ficco, M.; Gupta, B.B. Blockchain-based authentication and authorization for smart city applications. Inf. Process.
Manag. 2021, 58, 102468. [CrossRef]
77. Rejeb, A.; Rejeb, K.; Simske, S.J.; Keogh, J.G. Blockchain technology in the smart city: A bibliometric review. Qual. Quant. 2022, 56,
2875–2906. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
78. Enescu, F.M.; Bizon, N.; Ionescu, V.M. Blockchain–a new tehnology for the smart village. In Proceedings of the 2021 13th
International Conference on Electronics, Computers and Artificial Intelligence (ECAI), Pitesti, Romania, 1–3 July2021; pp. 1–6.
79. Enescu, F.M.; Bizon, N.; Cirstea, A.; Stirbu, C. Blockchain technology applied in health the study of blockchain application in the
health system (I). In Proceedings of the 2018 10th International Conference on Electronics, Computers and Artificial Intelligence
(ECAI), Iasi, Romania, 28–30 June 2018; pp. 1–4.
80. Kumar, A.; Singh, A.K.; Ahmad, I.; Kumar Singh, P.; Verma, P.K.; Alissa, K.A.; Bajaj, M.; Ur Rehman, A.; Tag-Eldin, E. A novel
decentralized blockchain architecture for the preservation of privacy and data security against cyberattacks in healthcare. Sensors
2022, 22, 5921. [CrossRef]
81. Enescu, F.M.; Bizon, N.; Onu, A.; Răboacă, M.S.; Thounthong, P.; Mazare, A.G.; S, erban, G. Implementing blockchain technology
in irrigation systems that integrate photovoltaic energy generation systems. Sustainability 2020, 12, 1540. [CrossRef]
82. Raboaca, M.S.; Bizon, N.; Trufin, C.; Enescu, F.M. Efficient and secure strategy for energy systems of interconnected farmers′
associations to meet variable energy demand. Mathematics 2020, 8, 2182. [CrossRef]
83. Rocha, G.d.S.R.; de Oliveira, L.; Talamini, E. Blockchain applications in agribusiness: A systematic review. Future Internet 2021,
13, 95. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3047885
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10030307
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2021.110900
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.renene.2021.05.053
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107171
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.114613
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2020.110452
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.gloei.2021.09.009
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107324
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107499
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijepes.2021.107515
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2019.109488
http://doi.org/10.51846/vol5iss1pp35-41
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.epsr.2022.108251
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.aej.2020.09.021
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.aej.2020.10.005
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117860
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.enconman.2022.116284
http://doi.org/10.3390/su14148801
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2020.102468
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11135-021-01251-2
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34629554
http://doi.org/10.3390/s22155921
http://doi.org/10.3390/su12041540
http://doi.org/10.3390/math8122182
http://doi.org/10.3390/fi13040095
Energies 2023, 16, 820 27 of 29
84. Waseem, M.; Lin, Z.; Ding, Y.; Wen, F.; Liu, S.; Palu, I. Technologies and practical implementations of air-conditioner based
demand response. J. Mod. Power Syst. Clean Energy 2020, 9, 1395–1413. [CrossRef]
85. Rizwan, M.; Waseem, M.; Liaqat, R.; Sajjad, I.A.; Dampage, U.; Salmen, S.H.; Obaid, S.A.; Mohamed, M.A.; Annuk, A. SPSO
Based Optimal Integration of DGs in Local Distribution Systems under Extreme Load Growth for Smart Cities. Electronics 2021,
10, 2542. [CrossRef]
86. Megahed, N.A.; Abdel-Kader, R.F. Smart Cities after COVID-19: Building a conceptual framework through a multidisciplinary
perspective. Sci. Afr. 2022, 17, e01374. [CrossRef]
87. Wu, H.; Cao, J.; Yang, Y.; Tung, C.L.; Jiang, S.; Tang, B.; Liu, Y.; Wang, X.; Deng, Y. Data management in supply chain using
blockchain: Challenges and a case study. In Proceedings of the 2019 28th International Conference on Computer Communication
and Networks (ICCCN), Valencia, Spain, 29 July–1 August 2019; pp. 1–8.
88. Aggarwal, S.; Chaudhary, R.; Aujla, G.S.; Kumar, N.; Choo, K.-K.R.; Zomaya, A. Blockchain for smart communities: Applications,
challenges and opportunities. J. Netw. Comput. Appl. 2019, 144, 13–48. [CrossRef]
89. Al Sadawi, A.; Madani, B.; Saboor, S.; Ndiaye, M.; Abu-Lebdeh, G.J. A comprehensive hierarchical blockchain system for carbon
emission trading utilizing blockchain of things and smart contract. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 2021, 173, 121124. [CrossRef]
90. Zia, M. B-DRIVE: A blockchain based distributed IoT network for smart urban transportation. Blockchain Res. Appl. 2021,
2, 100033. [CrossRef]
91. Pournaras, E. Proof of witness presence: Blockchain consensus for augmented democracy in smart cities. J. Parallel Distrib.
Comput. 2020, 145, 160–175. [CrossRef]
92. Iqbal, M.M.; Waseem, M.; Manan, A.; Liaqat, R.; Muqeet, A.; Wasaya, A. IoT-Enabled Smart Home Energy Management Strategy
for DR Actions in Smart Grid Paradigm. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Bhurban Conference on Applied Sciences and
Technologies (IBCAST), Islamabad, Pakistan, 12–16 January 2021; pp. 352–357.
93. Huseinović, A.; Mrdović, S.; Bicakci, K.; Uludag, S. A survey of denial-of-service attacks and solutions in the smart grid. IEEE
Access 2020, 8, 177447–177470. [CrossRef]
94. Huseinovic, A.; Mrdovic, S.; Bicakci, K.; Uludag, S. A taxonomy of the emerging Denial-of-Service attacks in the smart grid and
countermeasures. In Proceedings of the 2018 26th Telecommunications Forum (TELFOR), Belgrade, Serbia, 20–21 November
2018; pp. 1–4.
95. Du, D.; Li, X.; Li, W.; Chen, R.; Fei, M.; Wu, L. ADMM-based distributed state estimation of smart grid under data deception and
denial of service attacks. IEEE Trans. Syst. Man Cybern. Syst. 2019, 49, 1698–1711. [CrossRef]
96. Valliammai, A.; Bavatharinee, U.; Shivadharshini, K.; Hemavathi, N.; Meenalochani, M.; Sriranjani, R. A Comprehensive Study
on Distributed Denial of Service Attacks in Internet of Things Based Smart Grid. In Proceedings of the International Conference
on Intelligent Data Communication Technologies and Internet of Things, Coimbatore, India, 12–13 September 2019; pp. 685–691.
97. Raja, D.J.S.; Sriranjani, R.; Parvathy, A.; Hemavathi, N. A Review on Distributed Denial of Service Attack in Smart Grid. In
Proceedings of the 2022 7th International Conference on Communication and Electronics Systems (ICCES), Coimbatore, India,
22–24 June 2022; pp. 812–819.
98. Holik, F.; Flå, L.H.; Jaatun, M.G.; Yayilgan, S.Y.; Foros, J. Threat modeling of a smart grid secondary substation. Electronics 2022,
11, 850. [CrossRef]
99. Acarali, D.; Rao, K.R.; Rajarajan, M.; Chema, D.; Ginzburg, M. Modelling smart grid IT-OT dependencies for DDoS impact
propagation. Comput. Secur. 2022, 112, 102528. [CrossRef]
100. Mukherjee, D.; Chakraborty, S.; Ghosh, S. Deep learning-based multilabel classification for locational detection of false data
injection attack in smart grids. Electr. Eng. 2022, 104, 259–282. [CrossRef]
101. Yan, J.-J.; Yang, G.-H.; Wang, Y. Dynamic Reduced-Order Observer-Based Detection of False Data Injection Attacks With
Application to Smart Grid Systems. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2022, 18, 6712–6722. [CrossRef]
102. Reda, H.T.; Anwar, A.; Mahmood, A. Comprehensive survey and taxonomies of false data injection attacks in smart grids: Attack
models, targets, and impacts. Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev. 2022, 163, 112423. [CrossRef]
103. Mahi-Al-rashid, A.; Hossain, F.; Anwar, A.; Azam, S. False data injection attack detection in smart grid using energy consumption
forecasting. Energies 2022, 15, 4877. [CrossRef]
104. Wang, S.; Bi, S.; Zhang, Y.-J.A. Locational detection of the false data injection attack in a smart grid: A multilabel classification
approach. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 7, 8218–8227. [CrossRef]
105. Deng, R.; Liang, H. False data injection attacks with limited susceptance information and new countermeasures in smart grid.
IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2018, 15, 1619–1628. [CrossRef]
106. Nafees, M.N.; Saxena, N.; Cardenas, A.; Grijalva, S.; Burnap, P. Smart grid cyber-physical situational awareness of complex
operational technology attacks: A review. ACM Comput. Surv. 2022. [CrossRef]
107. Kimani, K.; Oduol, V.; Langat, K. Cyber security challenges for IoT-based smart grid networks. Int. J. Crit. Infrastruct. Prot. 2019,
25, 36–49. [CrossRef]
108. Gunduz, M.Z.; Das, R. Analysis of cyber-attacks on smart grid applications. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference
on Artificial Intelligence and Data Processing (IDAP), Malatya, Turkey, 28–30 September 2018; pp. 1–5.
109. Le, T.D.; Anwar, A.; Loke, S.W.; Beuran, R.; Tan, Y. Gridattacksim: A cyber attack simulation framework for smart grids. Electronics
2020, 9, 1218. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.35833/MPCE.2019.000449
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10202542
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.sciaf.2022.e01374
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2019.06.018
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2021.121124
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.bcra.2021.100033
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jpdc.2020.06.015
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3026923
http://doi.org/10.1109/TSMC.2019.2896292
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11060850
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cose.2021.102528
http://doi.org/10.1007/s00202-021-01278-6
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2022.3144445
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2022.112423
http://doi.org/10.3390/en15134877
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.2983911
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2018.2863256
http://doi.org/10.1145/3565570
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2019.01.001
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics9081218
Energies 2023, 16, 820 28 of 29
110. Zheng, L.; Gao, T.; Zhang, X. Security protection and testing system for cyber-physical based smart power grid. In Proceedings of
the PURPLE MOUNTAIN FORUM 2019-International Forum on Smart Grid Protection and Control; Springer: Singapore, 2020;
pp. 847–857.
111. Abdullah, H.I.M.; Mustaffa, M.Z.; Rahim, F.A.; Ibrahim, Z.-A.; Yusoff, Y.; Yussof, S.; Bakar, A.A.; Ismail, R.; Ramli, R. Smart grid
digital forensics investigation framework. In Proceedings of the 2020 8th International Conference on Information Technology
and Multimedia (ICIMU), Selangor, Malaysia, 24–26 August 2020; pp. 200–205.
112. Xu, K.; Wang, X.; Xu, H.; Dong, N.; Han, M.; Zhou, X. A vulnerability scanning scheme based on attack graph for smart grid
industrial control system. IOP Conf. Ser. Earth Environ. Sci. 2021, 645, 012060. [CrossRef]
113. Faquir, D.; Chouliaras, N.; Sofia, V.; Olga, K.; Maglaras, L. Cybersecurity in smart grids, challenges and solutions. AIMS Electron.
Electr. Eng. 2021, 5, 24–37.
114. Akbanov, M.; Vassilakis, V.G.; Logothetis, M.D.J. Ransomware detection and mitigation using software-defined networking: The
case of WannaCry. Comput. Electr. Eng. 2019, 76, 111–121. [CrossRef]
115. Kuznetsov, A.; Kavun, S.; Smirnov, O.; Babenko, V.; Nakisko, O.; Kuznetsova, K. Malware correlation monitoring in computer
networks of promising smart grids. In Proceedings of the 2019 IEEE 6th International Conference on Energy Smart Systems (ESS),
Kyiv, Ukraine, 17–19 April 2019; pp. 347–352.
116. Shaaban, A.R.; Abdelwanees, E.; Hussein, M. Distributed Denial of Service Attacks Analysis, Detection, and Mitigation for the
Space Control Ground Network: DDoS attacks analysis, detection and mitigation. Proc. Pak. Acad. Sci. A Phys. Comput. Sci. 2020,
57, 97–108.
117. Sairam, V.; Kumar, M. Counter attacks as self-defense. Int. J. Sci. Res. Eng. Trends 2019, 5, 976–981.
118. Toapanta, S.M.T.; Gallegos, L.E.M.; Morán, M.J.C.; Rojas, J.G.O. Analysis of models of security to mitigate the risks, vulnerabilities
and threats in a company of services of telecommunications. In Proceedings of the 2020 3rd International Conference on
Information and Computer Technologies (ICICT), San Jose, CA, USA, 9–12 March 2020; pp. 445–450.
119. Neves, R.H.; Silva, A.A.; Gava, V.; Azevedo, M.T.; Sandoval, J.F.; Oliveira, F.S.; Guelfi, A.E.; Kofuji, S.T. DoS Attack on SDN: A
study on control plane strategies in-band and out-of-band. Res. Sq. 2022, preprint.
120. Zeng, Z.; Li, Y.; Cao, Y.; Zhao, Y.; Zhong, J.; Sidorov, D.; Zeng, X. Blockchain Technology for Information Security of the Energy
Internet: Fundamentals, Features, Strategy and Application. Energies 2020, 13, 881. [CrossRef]
121. Khan, M.A.; Saleh, A.M.; Waseem, M.; Sajjad, I.A. Artificial Intelligence Enabled Demand Response: Prospects and Challenges in
Smart Grid Environment. IEEE Access 2023, 11, 1477–1505. [CrossRef]
122. Guan, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Zhu, L.; Wu, L.; Yu, S. EFFECT: An efficient flexible privacy-preserving data aggregation scheme with
authentication in smart grid. Sci. China Inf. Sci. 2019, 62, 32103. [CrossRef]
123. Agarkar, A.; Agrawal, H. A review and vision on authentication and privacy preservation schemes in smart grid network. Secur.
Priv. 2019, 2, e62. [CrossRef]
124. Sureshkumar, V.; Anandhi, S.; Amin, R.; Selvarajan, N.; Madhumathi, R. Design of robust mutual authentication and key
establishment security protocol for cloud-enabled smart grid communication. IEEE Syst. J. 2020, 15, 3565–3572. [CrossRef]
125. Almasarani, A.; Majid, M. 5G-Wireless sensor networks for smart grid-accelerating technology’s progress and innovation in the
kingdom of Saudi arabia. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2021, 182, 46–55.
126. Nguyen, T.N.; Liu, B.-H.; Nguyen, N.P.; Chou, J.-T. Cyber security of smart grid: Attacks and defenses. In Proceedings of the ICC
2020-2020 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), Dublin, Ireland, 7–11 June 2020; pp. 1–6.
127. Leszczyna, R. Standards on cyber security assessment of smart grid. Int. J. Crit. Infrastruct. Prot. 2018, 22, 70–89. [CrossRef]
128. Sundararajan, A.; Hernandez, A.S.; Sarwat, A.I. Adapting big data standards, maturity models to smart grid distributed
generation: Critical review. IET Smart Grid 2020, 3, 508–519. [CrossRef]
129. Mir, A.W.; Ramachandran, R.K. Security gaps assessment of smart grid based SCADA systems. Inf. Comput. Secur. 2019, 27,
434–452. [CrossRef]
130. Annor-Asante, M.; Pranggono, B. Development of smart grid testbed with low-cost hardware and software for cybersecurity
research and education. Wirel. Pers. Commun. 2018, 101, 1357–1377. [CrossRef]
131. Kisielewicz, T.; Stanek, S.; Zytniewski, M. A Multi-Agent Adaptive Architecture for Smart-Grid-Intrusion Detection and
Prevention. Energies 2022, 15, 4726. [CrossRef]
132. Rafique, Z.; Khalid, H.M.; Muyeen, S. Communication systems in distributed generation: A bibliographical review and frame-
works. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 207226–207239. [CrossRef]
133. Jha, A.V.; Appasani, B.; Ghazali, A.N. A Comprehensive Framework for the Assessment of Synchrophasor Communication
Networks from the Perspective of Situational Awareness in a Smart Grid Cyber Physical System. Technol. Econ. Smart Grids
Sustain. Energy 2022, 7, 20. [CrossRef]
134. Musleh, A.S.; Chen, G.; Dong, Z.Y. A survey on the detection algorithms for false data injection attacks in smart grids. IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid 2019, 11, 2218–2234. [CrossRef]
135. Inayat, U.; Zia, M.F.; Mahmood, S.; Khalid, H.M.; Benbouzid, M. Learning-Based Methods for Cyber Attacks Detection in IoT
Systems: A Survey on Methods, Analysis, and Future Prospects. Electronics 2022, 11, 1502. [CrossRef]
136. Waseem, M.; Lin, Z.; Liu, S.; Zhang, Z.; Aziz, T.; Khan, D. Fuzzy compromised solution-based novel home appliances scheduling
and demand response with optimal dispatch of distributed energy resources. Appl. Energy 2021, 290, 116761. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1088/1755-1315/645/1/012060
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2019.03.012
http://doi.org/10.3390/en13040881
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3231444
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11432-018-9451-y
http://doi.org/10.1002/spy2.62
http://doi.org/10.1109/JSYST.2020.3039402
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijcip.2018.05.006
http://doi.org/10.1049/iet-stg.2019.0298
http://doi.org/10.1108/ICS-12-2018-0146
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-018-5766-6
http://doi.org/10.3390/en15134726
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3037196
http://doi.org/10.1007/s40866-022-00146-x
http://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2019.2949998
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11091502
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.116761
Energies 2023, 16, 820 29 of 29
137. Biswas, S.; Sharif, K.; Li, F.; Maharjan, S.; Mohanty, S.P.; Wang, Y. PoBT: A Lightweight Consensus Algorithm for Scalable IoT
Business Blockchain. IEEE Internet Things J. 2020, 7, 2343–2355. [CrossRef]
138. Waseem, M.; Lin, Z.; Liu, S.; Jinai, Z.; Rizwan, M.; Sajjad, I.A. Optimal BRA based electric demand prediction strategy considering
instance-based learning of the forecast factors. Int. Trans. Electr. Energy Syst. 2021, 31, e12967. [CrossRef]
139. Aziz, T.; Lin, Z.; Waseem, M.; Liu, S. Review on optimization methodologies in transmission network reconfiguration of power
systems for grid resilience. Int. Trans. Electr. Energy Syst. 2021, 31, e12704. [CrossRef]
140. Waseem, M.; Sajjad, I.A.; Haroon, S.S.; Amin, S.; Farooq, H.; Martirano, L.; Napoli, R. Electrical Demand and its Flexibility in
Different Energy Sectors. Electr. Power Compon. Syst. 2020, 48, 1339–1361. [CrossRef]
141. Kim, S.; Kwon, Y.; Cho, S. A Survey of Scalability Solutions on Blockchain. In Proceedings of the 2018 International Conference
on Information and Communication Technology Convergence (ICTC), Jeju Island, Republic of Korea, 17–19 October 2018;
pp. 1204–1207.
142. Wood, E. A Secure Decentralised Generalised Transaction Ledger, Ethereum Proj. Yellow Pap. 2014, 151, 1–32.
143. Jabbar, A.; Dani, S. Investigating the link between transaction and computational costs in a blockchain environment. Int. J. Prod.
Res. 2020, 58, 3423–3436. [CrossRef]
144. Michelin, R.A.; Dorri, A.; Steger, M.; Lunardi, R.C.; Kanhere, S.S.; Jurdak, R.; Zorzo, A.F. SpeedyChain: A framework for
decoupling data from blockchain for smart cities. In Proceedings of the 15th EAI international conference on mobile and
ubiquitous systems: Computing, networking and services, New York, NY, USA, 5–7 November 2018; pp. 145–154.
145. Huang, J.; Kong, L.; Chen, G.; Wu, M.-Y.; Liu, X.; Zeng, P. Towards secure industrial IoT: Blockchain system with credit-based
consensus mechanism. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2019, 15, 3680–3689. [CrossRef]
146. Alladi, T.; Chamola, V.; Parizi, R.M.; Choo, K.-K.R. Blockchain applications for industry 4.0 and industrial IoT: A review. IEEE
Access 2019, 7, 176935–176951. [CrossRef]
147. Kang, J.; Xiong, Z.; Niyato, D.; Ye, D.; Kim, D.I.; Zhao, J. Toward secure blockchain-enabled internet of vehicles: Optimizing
consensus management using reputation and contract theory. IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol. 2019, 68, 2906–2920. [CrossRef]
148. Goudarzi, A.; Fahad, S.; Ni, J.; Ghayoor, F.; Siano, P.; Haes Alhelou, H. A sequential hybridization of ETLBO and IPSO for solving
reserve-constrained combined heat, power and economic dispatch problem. IET Gener. Transm. Distrib. 2022, 16, 1930–1949.
[CrossRef]
149. Goudarzi, A.; Zhang, C.; Fahad, S.; Mahdi, A.J. A hybrid sequential approach for solving environmentally constrained optimal
scheduling in co-generation systems. Energy Rep. 2021, 7, 3460–3479. [CrossRef]
150. Fahad, S.; Goudarzi, A.; Li, Y.; Xiang, J. A coordination control strategy for power quality enhancement of an active distribution
network. Energy Rep. 2022, 8, 5455–5471. [CrossRef]
151. Fahad, S.; Goudarzi, A.; Xiang, J. In From Grid Feeding to Grid Supporting Converters: A Constant Power Active Distribution
Network Perspective. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE 29th International Symposium on Industrial Electronics (ISIE), Delft, The
Netherlands, 17–19 June 2020; pp. 862–867.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2019.2958077
http://doi.org/10.1002/2050-7038.12967
http://doi.org/10.1002/2050-7038.12704
http://doi.org/10.1080/15325008.2020.1854372
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1754487
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2019.2903342
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2956748
http://doi.org/10.1109/TVT.2019.2894944
http://doi.org/10.1049/gtd2.12404
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2021.05.078
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.egyr.2022.04.014
	Introduction 
	Overview of Blockchain 
	Operation Blockchain for Smart Grids Applications 
	Blockchain for Home Automation 
	Blockchain for Advanced Metering Infrastructure 
	Blockchain for Electric Vehicles 
	Blockchain for Renewable Microgrids 
	Blockchain for Energy Management System 
	Blockchain for Energy Management System 
	Blockchain-Enabled Cybersecurity System for Smart Grids 
	Common Security Risks in Smart Grids 
	Denial-of Service (DoS) Attacks 
	False Data Injection Attack (FDIA) 
	Phishing 
	Eavesdropping 
	Security Breaches 
	Trojan-Horse Malware Black Energy 
	Stuxnet 
	WannaCry Ransomware 
	Countermeasures against Cyberattacks 
	Detection and Defense for DoS Attack 
	Encryption 
	Authentication 
	Malware Protection 
	Network Security 
	Risk and Maturity Assessments 
	IPS and IDS 
	Blockchain Implication for Cybersecurity of Smart Grid Paradigm 
	Challenges and Potential Future Research Directions 
	Conclusions 
	References