Hierarchical Blockchain Design for Distributed Control and Energy Trading Within Microgrids
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022 3133
Hierarchical Blockchain Design for Distributed
Control and Energy Trading Within Microgrids
Jiawei Yang , Member, IEEE, Jiahong Dai , Graduate Student Member, IEEE,
Hoay Beng Gooi , Life Senior Member, IEEE, Hung Dinh Nguyen , Senior Member, IEEE,
and Ping Wang , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Blockchain technology is recognized as a suitable
tool to secure the energy trading because it could perfectly match
the distributed structure of peer-to-peer (P2P) energy market.
But its usage is stuck on the transaction level. Control systems are
significant to the microgrid as they ensure a stable power delivery
system and regulate the performance of parameters such as active
power and frequency. This paper proves that the blockchain
technology is also effective in securing the distributed control
systems against the false data injection attack. A six-prosumer
microgrid is tested with the implementation of the hierarchical
blockchain system. The security of both the control system and
energy trading system of the microgrid is ensured. Smart con-
tracts are created to calculate the feedback measurements for the
control system and execute the energy transactions. According
to the hierarchical structure, the private blockchain with static
nodes is implemented for the distributed control to match the
sampling rate. A Proof-of-Authority based blockchain is utilized
to support the energy trading. In addition, a double auction
based simple iteration (DA-SI) pricing scheme is designed to
improve the social welfare of the microgrid. Finally, case stud-
ies are presented to verify the proposed hierarchical blockchain
system as an effective method to safeguard the control system
and maximize the benefits of prosumers. Numerical results show
the effectiveness and feasibility of the proposed approach.
Index Terms—Distributed control, peer-to-peer energy trading,
cyber-security, hierarchical blockchain, smart grid.
I. INTRODUCTION
PEER-TO-PEER (P2P) energy trading has become an
increasingly popular research direction since it allows
direct energy trading among prosumers without being charged
Manuscript received November 11, 2021; revised February 3, 2022;
accepted February 19, 2022. Date of publication February 23, 2022; date
of current version June 21, 2022. This work was supported in part by the
National Research Foundation, Singapore, and EMA-ESG, Singapore, under
Award NRF2019NRF-CG002-002, and in part by the Agency for Science,
Technology and Research (A*SATR), Singapore, under its Singapore-
Germany Academic-Industry (2 + 2) International Collaboration under
Grant A1990b0060. Paper no. TSG-01812-2021. (Corresponding author:
Jiawei Yang.)
Jiawei Yang and Jiahong Dai are with the School of Electrical
and Electronics Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
(e-mail: jiawei008@e.ntu.edu.sg).
Hoay Beng Gooi is with the School of Electrical and Electronic
Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
Hung Dinh Nguyen is with the Department of EEE, Nanyang Technological
University, Singapore.
Ping Wang is with the Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science, York University, Toronto, ON M3J 1P3, Canada.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2022.3153693.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TSG.2022.3153693
by intermediaries. To ensure the transparency and security of
transactions, blockchain technology is widely used to protect
the energy trading within microgrids. As blockchain has been
already considered as an effective method for supporting P2P
energy trading [1], the application potential of blockchain in
other aspects of power system such as to safeguard the secu-
rity of a control system could also be realized. To maintain a
robust energy delivery system for energy trading, the require-
ment for a solid control system for local distributed generators
is extremely significant [2]. Nowadays, the software systems
for the modern power system, especially for the distributed
secondary control, is vulnerable to cyber attacks. False data
injection (FDI) is one of the malicious methods to attack the
exchange measurement data and control commands via the
control network of microgrids [3]. Due to the cryptographic
mechanism and distributed ledger features of blockchain, it is
valuable to apply blockchain technology to ensure the security
of both control systems and energy trading for power systems.
A. Related Work
For the previous research on blockchain based energy trad-
ing, the authors in [4] integrate their proposed blockchain
framework with a double-auction Vickrey-Clarke-Groves
(VCG) mechanism to handle probable market deficiencies. The
bilateral contracts and electronic commerce platform are also
created to support the trading functionalities with the main
grid, which is similarly considered in [5]. Differently, the
authors in [5] also take the power loss factor from energy trans-
mission into account and create an internal mining-rewarding
mechanism to maintain the consortium blockchain extension,
which is also utilized in [6], [7] to provide a quantitative
analysis of the blockchain value and disable the dishon-
esty and malicious behaviors among participants. In [8], the
authors design a new slot-ahead electricity market structure
based on an end-user marginal price linked with a modified
blockchain model. To consider prosumers’ behavior deviation
in the distributed power dispatch mechanisms, a distributed
strategy update algorithm is proposed in [9] to optimize their
bids by using the price information. For the implementa-
tion of blockchain, the authors in [10] use private blockchain
to enhance the stability and efficiency of their proposed
energy trading model with the consideration of credit rat-
ing. The research work about various pricing schemes for
blockchain based energy trading is also investigated. Game
theory [11]–[13], demand response [14], [15] and double
1949-3053 c© 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0381-8265
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-5770-3573
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5983-2181
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2610-5161
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1599-5480
3134 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022
auction [16], [17] are widely applied in the P2P energy trad-
ing. But the mechanisms of game theory and demand response
include a complicated iterative computation burden that the
smart contract could not afford. Therefore the double auction
is considered as the optimal market clearing method to be sup-
ported by the blockchain. In addition, while traditional double
auctions could only provide a trading price range, determining
the optimal price of the market calls for more specific pricing
schemes.
As energy trading is operated on the basis of safe energy
generation and transmission systems, the cyber-security for
the distributed control of power systems becomes a signif-
icant task. The centralized control system of the microgrid
is vulnerable to the FDI since the microgrid operator could
not provide efficient detection and protection. FDI as a major
threat to microgrids is studied in the previous work. The
authors in [18] introduce an attack vector relaxing error and
propose an imperfect false data injection attack model as well
as its implementation method. In [19], the authors analyze
the FDI attack in the electricity grid that it could compromise
either the physical or economic operation of the power system
based on the experience from the late 2015 Ukraine Blackout
event. The local FDI attack is modelled in [20] with reduced
network information to determine the optimal attacking region
of modern power grids. In addition to the modelling and sim-
ulation, the detection of FDI attack is studied in [14], where a
sub-grid oriented micro-service framework which integrates a
designed spatial-temporal neural network in AC-model power
systems is proposed. Various types of FDI datasets are tested
on a public benchmark power grid. The authors in [21] anal-
yse different FDI detection algorithms including the model
based and data driven algorithms. The main criteria that
should be considered in developing detection algorithms for
the FDI attacks is also presented. Other FDI detection methods
such as filter-based tracking scheme [22], deep learning [23]
and deep neural network [24] are utilized to recognize the
behavior pattern of FDI based on the historical measurement
data.
B. Motivation and Contribution
However, the implementation process of blockchain is rarely
demonstrated in the previous works and the computation bur-
den of their proposed pricing scheme cannot be afforded by the
blockchain system theoretically such as machine learning [25]
and game theory [26], [27]. The drawbacks of both public and
private blockchains are not addressed since: 1) public chain
could cause enormous gas costs and mining consumption;
2) private chain cannot ensure the decentralized trading struc-
ture of P2P energy market and it becomes vulnerable when the
central agent is attacked or becomes malicious. Additionally,
it should be noted that no studies have been considered on
expanding blockchain in other aspects of the power system in
addition to its usage for P2P energy trading. The bottleneck
of blockchain applications in the power system lies essen-
tially in supporting the energy transaction. Current studies on
blockchain based control system mainly focus on the access
control system with IoT, which ensures the data privacy of
networks. The concept of this type of control system is dif-
ferent from that existing in the power system. And for the
FDI attack against the distributed control systems, most of
the previous studies only focused on modelling and detection
without proposing an effective protection approach [28]–[30].
For those studies with respective protection strategies, their
designed methods are only effective to few specific FDI attacks
or their problem formulation is based on random attacks [31].
Although blockchain is considered as a potential method to
address FDI attacks in several works [32], [33], there is
no implementation to prove that it could be a comprehen-
sive method to protect the secondary control of the power
system.
In this paper, the focus is on designing a hierarchical
blockchain based on the Ethereum platform to protect both
the control system and energy trading for a microgrid. The
first level of blockchain implementation is for the distributed
secondary control layer, which requires a secure and efficient
communication environment for the neighbouring local dis-
tributed generation (DG) controllers. Depending on the crypto-
graphic and consensus protocol feature of the blockchain, any
malicious attack is prevented by its adoption [34]. Besides, its
data transparency and the decentralization feature could pro-
vide an efficient detection of the FDI. Instead of exchanging
the money and products (energy) for transactions, the designed
smart contracts are responsible for executing the exchange of
the input and feedback control commands during each sam-
pling slot. To match each extremely short sampling slot and
ensure the control quality, the Ethereum private blockchain
with static nodes connection is used for the first level of
the proposed hierarchical blockchain system since the public
blockchain requires a much longer period for block production
and costs enormous gas consumption. It has been proved that
a private blockchain is able to mine 20,000 transactions per
second [35] which is adequate to match the sampling of the
distributed control system (DCS).
The second level of the hierarchical blockchain system is
designed for the P2P energy trading within the microgrid.
Due to the limited calculation capability of smart contracts,
a double-auction with simple iterations (DA-SI) method is
proposed to generate the optimal trading price for both con-
sumers and producers to improve the social welfare. In
the second blockchain level, an Ethereum based Proof-of-
Authority (PoA) private blockchain is adopted to protect each
energy transaction. By assigning all of the prosumers as the
authority nodes, the PoA consensus protocol regulates the
behaviors of prosumers and incentivizes the miners to maintain
the blockchain operation [36]. Besides, the mining consump-
tion is controllable since the mining opportunity is competed
within the microgrid and the decentralized trading structure
is ensured as no central agent could dominate the mining
mechanism.
In this context, the contributions of this paper are:
• The breakthrough of the bottleneck of blockchain appli-
cations in a power system is achieved by the designed
hierarchical blockchain system, which expands its usage
to the distributed secondary control layer of the microgrid
in addition to the energy trading.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL BLOCKCHAIN DESIGN FOR DISTRIBUTED CONTROL 3135
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram for the hierarchical blockchain system based microgrid.
• Both the internal and external FDI attacks against
secondary control are analyzed and defended by the
proposed blockchain model and the quality of each
control process is also ensured as the mining rate
is improved to match the sampling rate of control
system.
• A smart contract-affordable pricing scheme design is
created by using DA-SI method with the PoA consen-
sus protocol, which eliminates the price gap between
buying and selling price and improves prosumers’
welfare.
• The implementation of the hierarchical blockchain system
to protect and support both DCS and P2P energy trading
is specifically demonstrated.
The remaining of this paper is organized as follows:
Section II presents the system setup of the proposed hierarchi-
cal blockchain system for the microgrid. Section III describes
the protection mechanism of the first blockchain layer for the
secondary control. The second blockchain layer designed for
P2P energy trading with the proposed DA-SI scheme is intro-
duced in Section IV and a welfare analysis is presented. A
case study as well as the implementation process of the hier-
archical blockchain system is shown in Section V. Section VI
analyses the performance and security results of the proposed
method. Finally, Section VII concludes the study and proposes
its related future work.
II. HIERARCHICAL BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEM SETUP
The proposed hierarchical blockchain system is set up based
on Ethereum platform. As one of the biggest blockchain
companies, Ethereum provides multiple blockchain services
and flexible environment for researchers to build up their
own projects. Although Hyperledger Fabric and Hyperledger
Besu are also proficient in the private blockchain setup [37],
Ethereum private blockchain is facilitated with a simpler
and clearer mining mechanism [38] which is more suit-
able for matching the high-rate sampling frequency of DCS.
The blockchain setup for the P2P energy trading within the
microgrid is also based on Ethereum but the PoA consensus
protocol is adopted to progressively support the DA-SI pric-
ing scheme. Fig. 1 presents the schematic illustration of the
proposed blockchain based microgrid system.
According to Fig. 1, the first level of the proposed
blockchain system is the private blockchain based DCS for
four DG controllers, which safeguards the data transmission
and delivers the control commands back to the microgrid.
Supported by the first distributed control layer, the second level
of the blockchain system is the energy trading layer within the
6-prosumer microgrid, including four producers with respec-
tive DG and two consumers. All prosumers are equipped with
a battery energy storage system (BESS). Specific explanations
of the proposed hierarchical blockchain based microgrid for
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3136 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022
Fig. 2. DCS structure of microgrids.
DCS and energy trading are provided in Sections III and IV
respectively.
III. FIRST LEVEL: PRIVATE BLOCKCHAIN
DESIGN FOR DCS
In Fig. 1, the distributed control layer of the DCS simulation
setup by RT-LAB is operated in a real-time simulator machine.
In this paper, the proposed blockchain system is set up on the
four-DG controller microgrid.
A. Working Process
In this section, the working process of the proposed model
is specifically explained. The real-time input data sampled
from DCS is transferred to a socket interface via the User
Datagram Protocol (UDP), which is a communication proto-
col used to enable low-latency data transmission. The socket
interface provides data transmission services between the DCS
and the private Ethereum blockchain, including four data
transfer channels for the four DG secondary controllers. The
data items are packed and categorized for further transmis-
sion to the proposed blockchain system by using Remote
Procedure Calls (gRPC) which provides services such as
authentication and bidirectional streaming. After receiving
the input data, the DG controller nodes collect the mea-
surements from each other depending on the communica-
tion network provided by the static nodes services shown
in Fig. 2.
According to Fig. 2, each controller node could only com-
municate directly with another two nodes since there is no
communication line between the nodes on the diagonal lines.
The communication structure of the four DG controllers could
be described as a weighted adjacency matrix I as:
I =
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
0 in12 0 in14
in21 0 in23 0
0 in32 0 in34
in41 0 in43 0
⎤
⎥⎥⎦ (1)
where inij > 0 refers to the direct information exchange
between controllers DGi and DGj. Since there is no com-
munication line between DG1 and DG3, DG2 and DG4, the
corresponding elements are 0.
The static nodes are a set of trusted nodes and the
DG controller nodes are connected with each other through
StaticNode.json, which records their enode [39] addresses of
them. enode is the connection port of each blockchain node
offered by the Ethereum platform [36]. In addition, static
nodes are exempted from maximum peer and remote connec-
tion limits and therefore this connection method provides a
more flexible communication network and improves the speed
of the mining process. Under most ideal conditions, the dura-
tion of each block production equals to that of each sampling
process (Tb = Ts).
The smart contracts are responsible for the controller for-
mulation and feedback calculation. The functions in the smart
contracts for data exchange are designed for the four sec-
ondary controllers. After being deployed to the blockchain by
the Truffle.js, the Web3.py calls the functions offered in smart
contracts to calculate the control feedback such as frequency
Uw sent by the secondary controllers as:
Uw = Kw ∗ [
(I − D) ∗ F + G ∗ (
F∗ − F
)]
(2)
F =
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
w1
w2
w3
w4
⎤
⎥⎥⎦ (3)
D =
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
in12 + in14 0 0 0
0 in21 + in23 0 0
0 0 in32 + in34 0
0 0 0 in41 + in43
⎤
⎥⎥⎦
(4)
where G is the weighted matrix and F∗ is the reference
frequency matrix of the four DG units. Kw refers to the pos-
itive control gain. For each controller, the diagonal elements
in D refer to the communication lines linked with other con-
trollers according to Matrix I. They are the sum of the elements
in every row of Matrix I. The working mechanism of smart
contracts is demonstrated by Algorithm 1.
It should be noted that the final step of the smart contract
execution is to remove the previous data. It is because new
measurement data of the next control process will arrive. The
removal of the previous data helps to relieve the storage burden
of smart contracts and prevent latency caused from the mining
process. Then, the new value of the DCS frequency with its
objective is calculated as:
wi = w∗
i − kwiP + δwi (5)
lim
t→∞ wi(t) = w∗
i (6)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL BLOCKCHAIN DESIGN FOR DISTRIBUTED CONTROL 3137
Algorithm 1 DCS Execution of Smart Contract
for each smartcontracti ∈ [blocki] do
Establish structure of each node:
<address[account], uint[id], int[f , P, Q, v]>,
bool[true]
Constructor:
reference value Kw, w∗
i , owner[msg.sender]
Receive data:
Register nodes <address, id, [f , P, Q, v]>;
Require node.engage = true;
Input: int[f , P, Q, v]
Calculation:
Function I: feedback calculation for node1;
Function II: feedback calculation for node2;
Function III: feedback calculation for node3;
Function IV: feedback calculation for node4;
Return values to four nodes:
<address[account], uint[id], int[f , P, Q, v]>,
bool[true];
Delete nodes information;
end for;
where w∗
i is the reference frequency value for DGi. kwi is the
droop coefficients and δwi is the compensation item of the
secondary control.
Finally, the new measurements are transferred back to the
socket interface via the gRPC and further passed to the real-
time simulator machine, which is the end of one control
process.
B. Protection Rationale
Unlike the traditional private blockchain that only one node
is assigned as the miner to pack the data and maintain the
operation of a blockchain, all of the four nodes are assigned
as miners to share the computation burden of mining. The
input and feedback data is protected by a cryptographic pack-
ing method called hash function, which encodes the practical
measurement data into a set of hash codes. The produced hash
codes are extremely difficult to be decoded and traced. Thus,
these data items are protected by the blockchain system. The
content of each block that will be hashed includes the mea-
surement data, smart contracts, time and previous hash codes
of its former block, which is defined as:
Block(n) = Hash(DCS<data>, Ctrcs, Time, Block(n − 1))
(7)
where Ctrcs refers to the deployed smart contracts and DCS <
data > refers to the measurements of the electrical parameters.
According to (7), the chains of blocks are established
because the hash codes of each new block are produced based
on those of the previous blocks. This feature protects the DCS
system as any malicious attacks on overwriting the content
of the blocks would break the chain which could be sim-
ply detected and become an invalid attack. Especially for
the attacks outside the microgrid such as the FDI attack, the
attackers are required to decode the hash code, inject the
false data into the DCS data or smart contracts and re-hash
the new block content with all of its previous blocks again.
Furthermore, since the blockchain only recognizes the longest
chain, the mining computation capability of the attackers must
overpass those four mining nodes within the microgrid. Such
enormous workload is extremely energy consuming which is
considered as impossible to accomplish. To enhance the min-
ing rate, the mining difficulty of the blockchain is set at a very
low value. With the support from the gRPC, the mining speed
is theoretically impossible to be exceeded by any attackers
outside the microgrid.
Another type of FDI attack is the attacker inside the
microgrid, which means the attacker is one of the assigned
miners. In this scenario, DG controller node1 is assumed to
be the malicious miner. In each control process, the input of
the attacker node1 is overwritten and injected as false data set:
NT
1 = [
FD1 D2 0 D4
]
(8)
where FD is the false input from node1 and Di is the input
from the other nodei controllers.
According to (2), a false calculation outcome of the smart
contract is generated as:
Uow1 = K
[(
D∗ − FD1
) + (D2 − FD1) + (D3 − FD1)
]
(9)
with
Uow1 = U + αow1 (10)
where D∗ is the reference value, and αow1 refers to the
deviation between the corrected U and the false Uow1.
When it comes to the DG controller node2, the input
received could be defined as:
NT
2 = [
FD1 D2 D3 0
]
(11)
where FD1 is the input false data from the node1.
Its feedback value U2 is also influenced by the false FD1
injection which leads to a new false measurement from node2
as FD2 in the next round of control as:
Uow2 = K
[(
D∗ − D2
) + (FD1 − D2) + (D3 − D2)
]
. (12)
Subsequently, the false feedback provided by the attacker
node1 then progressively influence the inputs for all the other
controller nodes as well as those of the next DCS process until
all of the inputs are false data which is shown as:
I(x) =
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
FD1 FD1 0 FD1
FD2 FD2 FD2 0
0 FD3 FD3 FD3
FD4 0 FD4 FD4
⎤
⎥⎥⎦. (13)
The consequence caused by (13) would lead to frequency
concussion and breakdown of the DCS system. In this sce-
nario, the advantage of static nodes based private blockchain
could be realized. Within the proposed blockchain system,
tracing the data does not require decoding and re-mining for
the other miners within the microgrid, and therefore it is
convenient and efficient to detect the malicious miner. As men-
tioned, the list of static nodes is made on the basis of trust
among miners of the private blockchain. Since the whole min-
ing process is transparent to the other three miners, once the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3138 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022
Fig. 3. Protection mechanism against internal and external attacks.
malicious miner has been detected, it will be defined as an
untrustworthy node and its account address will be eliminated
in the static nodes list, thereby losing the connection to the
whole blockchain based DCS system. The protection rationale
of the proposed blockchain system is illustrated in Fig. 3.
Overall, the first level of the hierarchical blockchain system
is able to guarantee the integrity and reliability of the DCS
system without causing any negative effect as long as 2/3 of
the nodes are not compromised according to the Ethereum
standards [36].
IV. SECOND LEVEL: POA BLOCKCHAIN
DESIGN FOR ENERGY TRADING
As shown in Fig. 1, the proposed microgrid system includes
six prosumers, of which four producers are equipped with DG
and the other two are consumers. In the P2P market, producers
could also become consumers when their energy generation
cannot fulfill their load demands and consumers could become
producers when they have surplus energy in their BESS. The
energy generated by each producer should firstly fulfill their
own demands and the extra energy stored in BESS could be
sold in the market. Since private blockchain is applied in the
proposed model, the mining consumption is extremely low and
thereby being ignored in the welfare calculation.
A. Blockchain Design
Different to the blockchain adopted in the first DCS layer, a
PoA based private blockchain is applied for the energy trading
layer. According to the PoA consensus protocol, only authority
nodes could validate transactions and generate blocks. These
authority nodes are also known as trusted nodes. This means
that the authority role depends on the reputation of each node.
Prosumers earn the right to become authority nodes so they are
incentivized to maintain the mining process to attach a positive
reputation to their own identity. Malicious operation within the
microgrid will be punished by having the node removed from
the list of authority nodes. This consensus protocol is more
robust and efficient than the others such as Proof-of-Work and
Proof-of-Stake due to less energy consumption and latency
caused.
In the proposed PoA blockchain system, all six prosumers
are initially assigned as authority nodes to share the min-
ing burden. The communication network is supported by a
Bootnode service instead of static nodes since the mining
process for energy trading is not required to achieve such
high-rate block production as that for the DCS system, and
the interface of Bootnode enables the supervision of the nodes
connection. The information of energy generation and BESS
profile is stored in prosumers’ respective database. The data of
successful energy trading is recorded in the distributed ledger
offered by the blockchain system. The proposed DA-SL pric-
ing scheme is coded in the smart contract and deployed to the
blockchain by Truffle.js. The WEB3 interface enables the data
transmission of energy transactions between the microgrid and
the blockchain system.
The protection rationale for the energy trading layer is sim-
ilar to that for the DCS layer. As transaction information is
hashed and added to the blockchain, it is impossible to be over-
written. In addition, legal behaviors of prosumers are ensured
since malicious operation is punished according to the PoA
consensus protocol.
B. Pricing Scheme Design
In this paper, a DA-SI pricing scheme is proposed to gen-
erate the trading price and clear the market. An effective
double auction based pricing scheme should maximize the
social welfare and total utilities of prosumers while incentiviz-
ing prosumers to bid their price. In the DA-SI pricing scheme,
the bid prices of consumers (bi) are sorted in the descending
order with the consideration of the price offered by the utility
grid (UG),
b1 > b2 > · · · > bN > bFIT , N ∈ [1, 6] (14)
where bFIT is the price offered by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) and
N is the number of consumers.
The ask prices of the producers (ai) are sorted in the ascend-
ing order with the consideration of the price offered by the
utility grid (UG) as:
a1 < a2 < · · · < a6−N < aUG, N ∈ [1, 6] (15)
where aUG refers to the price from the utility grid. With six
total prosumers and N conusmers, the number of producers is
calculated as 6 − N.
As illustrated in Fig. 4, the intersection point of the quantity-
price curves of the producers and consumers defines the range
of the clearing price within [aj, bi].
To further calculate the clearing price within the range,
a simple-iteration (SI) plan is proposed. The final value of
the clearing price for each time slot should be related to
the supply-demand (SD) ratio according to the rationale of
economics [40]. The SD ratio ε is calculated as:
εt =
∑6−N
j=1 pt
Gj∑N
i=1 pt
Di
(16)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL BLOCKCHAIN DESIGN FOR DISTRIBUTED CONTROL 3139
Fig. 4. DA-SI pricing mechanism.
where pt
Gj refers to the surplus energy generated by producer
j and pt
Di is the energy demands of consumer i.
The correlation between the electricity ask prices and the
SD ratio should be negatively proportional [41]. With the price
range [aj, bi] produced from the double auction mechanism,
the SI scheme is designed as:
At(n + 1) = Bt(n)
Bt(n)−At(n)
At(n)
εt + 1
,
{
At(0) = at
j
Bt(0) = bt
i
(17)
Bt(n + 1) = At(n + 1)εt + Bt(n)(1 − εt),
{
At(0) = at
j
Bt(0) = bt
i
(18)
where 0 < ε < 1, and A(n) and B(n) are the ask and bid
prices after n iterations.
The iteration will be terminated until the value of the bid
price equals the ask price A(n) = B(n). The specific conver-
gence proof of the iterations is introduced in [5]. But unlike
the iteration scheme provided in [5], the initial value of A(0)
and B(0) are set as aj and bi respectively according to the dou-
ble auction, in which the price range is smaller and thus the
iteration calculation burden is progressively relieved and more
affordable for smart contracts execution. Finally, the clearing
price C for each time slot is defined as:
Ct = At(n) = Bt(n). (19)
The proposed DA-SI pricing scheme is written in the smart
contracts. This enables the clearing of energy transactions
automatically when the respective value for payments and
products is balanced. Then, transactions are validated by the
authority prosumers and added to the PoA blockchain. As
the price gap between bid prices and ask prices is elimi-
nated, the electricity price is represented by C in the remaining
sections.
C. Utility and Welfare Analysis
According to Fig. 1, prosumers within the microgrid are
equipped with BESS. If the annual cost of each prosumer’s
battery system is Ebs, then the equivalent daily cost is cal-
culated as Ebs
365 . Another expense of the microgrid is the
generation cost Eg from the producers, which is generally
defined as a quadratic convex form of each producer’s power
generation Gj [42],
Egj = αjG
2
j + βjGj + σj (20)
where αj, βj and σj are the cost function parameters related to
the types of generation source and the cost of maintenance.
The utility function models the satisfaction level of pro-
sumers related to the amount of energy purchased under
various scenarios [43]. A reasonable utility function design
should satisfy certain conditions which are:
• If there is no executed energy transaction, the value of
customers’ satisfaction level is 0.
• Within the scale of the function, the maximum value is
supposed to be obtained.
To achieve the above two requirements in the energy trading
field and for the purpose of a clear demonstration, a widely
adopted piece-wise quadratic utility function is applied for
each consumer. This is defined as:
Ut(pt
i
) =
⎧⎨
⎩
2rt
ip
t
i − wi
(
pt
i
)2
pt
i <
rt
i
wi
(rt
i)
2
wi
pt
i >= rt
i
wi
(21)
where rt
i and wi are the private parameters of consumer i,
both of which distinguish the consumer from the others. The
value of rt
i may vary in different time slots or with respective
behaviors of consumers. wi is a constant value that relies on
specific energy trading conditions.
In this paper, the energy trading is based on the assump-
tion that the energy demands proposed by each consumer are
inflexible and necessary. This means the amount of energy
demands is the minimum value that achieves the maximum of
the utility function.
pt
i = min
⎡
⎢⎣ arg max
pt
i=pt
Di=
rt
i
wi
∥∥Ut(pt
i
)∥∥
⎤
⎥⎦ (22)
where pt
i is the power demand of prosumer i in t time slot.
Based on (22), the value of rt
i can be calculated as:
rt
i = wi × pt
Di. (23)
By substituting the result from (23) into (21), the new utility
function is formed as:
U
(
pt
i
)t =
{
wipt
i × ∣∣2pt
Di − pt
i)
∣∣ pt
i �= pt
Di
wip
2,t
Di pt
i = pt
Di.
(24)
With the consideration of the energy trading, the welfare of
consumers within the microgrid for one day is defined as:
Wc =
th∑
t=t1
N∑
i=1
(
Ut(pt
i
) − Ctpt
i − γ Et
gi
)
−
N∑
i=1
Ebs
365
(25)
where γ = 1 refers to the consumers with DG and γ = 0
refers to the consumers without DG. t is the time slot.
The welfare of producers within the microgrid for one
day is calculated by eliminating the cost of battery and DG
maintenance from their incomes via the energy trading as:
Wp =
th∑
t=t1
⎡
⎣Ct pt
Di −
6−N∑
j=1
Et
gi
⎤
⎦ −
6−N∑
j=1
Ebs
365
. (26)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3140 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022
TABLE I
PARAMETERS OF DCS
TABLE II
FACILITIES INFORMATION FOR BLOCKCHAIN IMPLEMENTATION
Finally, the social welfare of the microgrid is defined as
the total value of the welfare of all prosumers within the
microgrid.
V. CASE STUDIES
In this section, the simulation of the four-DG control system
is performed in RT-LAB and MATLAB software. The simu-
lation model of the four-DG islanded microgrid is established
and Table I shows the electrical and control parameters for the
microgrid.
The information of the software and hardware facilities
for the hierarchical blockchain implementation is provided
in Table II. For both layers, the blockchain is established
by installing Geth − 1.10.6 with Truffle − v5.1.49.js and
Web3 − 5.12.0.py to deploy and realise the functions written
in the Solidity smart contracts.
A. First Level Blockchain Implementation
For the first layer, four of ten Raspberry Pi 4Bs are used
for the node installation of the four-DG secondary con-
trollers. gRPC and UDP are set up for the data transmission
between different modules illustrated in Fig. 1. Static nodes
are set up by storing the enode ports of the DG nodes in
static−nodes.json for the communication network. The block
production interval is restrained within 200µs. The smart con-
tracts deployment is demonstrated in Fig. 5, which includes the
addresses of smart contracts, corresponding authority nodes
and hash codes. The control results of the proposed blockchain
based DCS and the DCS without blockchain in the normal
condition are compared in Fig. 6. The control results under
Fig. 5. Smart contracts deployment.
Fig. 6. Comparison of DCS without blockchain (DCS) and with blockchain
(B-DCS) in normal condition.
Fig. 7. Comparison of DCS without blockchain (DCS) and with blockchain
(B-DCS) under FDI attack.
a FDI attack at 6 seconds are compared in Fig. 7 (the data
injection is made by node1.
According to Fig. 6, the implementation of blockchain does
not influence the DCS results negatively as there is no dif-
ference in the results between the blockchain based DCS
and the DCS without blockchain. According to Fig. 7, with-
out the blockchain protection, the frequency of the microgrid
breaks down immediately after the FDI attack, meanwhile
the frequency remains near its normal value with the protec-
tion of the proposed blockchain system. Therefore, based on
the aforementioned results, the proposed blockchain system
could ensure the control quality and safeguard the control
system simultaneously. For the FDI attacks, Fig. 8 illustrates
the gas and energy consumption as well as the mining speed of
the attackers compared to the data of the original blockchain
maintenance.
From the comparison provided in Fig. 8(a), (b) and (c), the
gas and energy consumption required for a successful FDI
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL BLOCKCHAIN DESIGN FOR DISTRIBUTED CONTROL 3141
Fig. 8. The comparison of (a) gas costs, (b) energy consumption and
(c) mining speed between attackers and authority nodes. (d) The deviation
rate between sampling and mining.
Fig. 9. Block information for DCS.
attack is extremely high compared with a normal blockchain
maintenance. In addition, the mining speed of the attacker is
much slower than that of the authority nodes. Therefore the
proposed DCS system is comprehensively protected by the
proposed private blockchain system against any possible FDI
attack. Although the deviation rate between the DCS sampling
and the mining shown in Fig. 8(d) could potentially interfere
with the DCS results, this interference could be prevented as
long as it is restrained in a controllable scale. The reason for
the cause of the deviation is because the functionality of the
Raspberry Pi is not stable, leading to the asynchronisation
between the mining rate and sampling rate. But it is convenient
to restrain the deviation because of the low mining difficulty
offered by private blockchains. In the proposed work, the devi-
ation is restrained in a controllable scale as shown in Fig. 8(d)
and the results are shown in Fig. 6.
The specific content of a block is shown in Fig. 9,
including the transaction hash, block number and the DCS
data. The DCS data is presented as an integer num-
ber 4957433545000032540142497786 as smart contracts can
only execute integer calculations. The practical meaning
of this integer refers to <49.5743Hz, 3545w, 325.4014V ,
249.7786Val> which are the measurement delivered to the
DCS.
B. Second Level Blockchain Implementation
For the second blockchain layer, Puppeth is installed for
the PoA protocol implementation and the Bootnode service
is applied for the communication network shown in Fig. 10.
30303 to 30308 are the connection ports for the six prosumers
respectively.
Fig. 10. Bootnode communication services.
TABLE III
PARAMETERS OF GENERATORS AND POWER LOSS
Fig. 11. Smart contracts based DA-SI deployment.
The RT-lab with MATLAB software is used to simulate
the energy trading within the microgrid with consideration of
Lithium-ion batteries as the BESS of prosumers. The charg-
ing/discharging efficiency is 90% and the annual maintenance
cost is 16,000 Singapore cents. The prices offered by the utility
grid and FIT are 22.93 cents/kWh and 9.3 cents/kWh respec-
tively. The parameter wi of the utility function is set as 0.25
and the value of rt
i is calculated by (23). The other parameters
of the producers are listed in Table III.
The DA-SI pricing scheme is written in smart contracts and
deployed to the PoA blockchain which is shown in Fig. 11.
To present the advantage of DA-SI, its clearing price and
welfare are compared with those of the traditional trading of
the prosumer with utility grid (PWG) as well as another widely
used double auction scheme which calculates the middle rate
of the [aj, bi] (DA-MR) [44]. The energy trading information
for these three methods is compared in Fig. 12.
The iteration number of DA-SI calculation illustrated in
Fig. 12(a) is affordable for smart contracts. After calculat-
ing the social welfare for the microgrid with consideration of
power demands, generation and the clearing prices, the wel-
fare is improved most by the proposed DA-SI pricing scheme
as shown in Fig. 12(d).
The respective welfare generated by different pricing
schemes for producers and consumers are presented in Fig. 13,
from which the welfare of both producers and consumers is
improve most by using the proposed DA-SI pricing scheme,
which produces a strong incentive for them to participate in the
P2P energy trading market and bid/ask their prices. Overall,
the proposed hierarchical blockchain system with DA-SI is
able to safeguard the DCS and energy trading while ensuring
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3142 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022
Fig. 12. (a) The iteration calculation process in a time slot of DA-SI. (b) The
clearing prices generated by three methods. (c) The total power demands ang
generation of the microgrid. (d) the welfare comparison of the three pricing
schemes.
Fig. 13. The respective welfare of (a) producers and (b) consumers provided
by different schemes.
the quality of the control results and improving the social
welfare of the microgrid.
VI. PERFORMANCE AND SECURITY ANALYSIS
In this paper, the proposed hierarchical blockchain system
is designed for the microgrid, including the first private
blockchain level for control system and the second PoA
blockchain level for P2P energy trading.
A. Control System Layer
In the first level, the DCS is protected by the private
blockchain system against the FDI attack. After the imple-
mentation of the blockchain, attackers are required to take
tremendous computation burden and energy expense to con-
duct a successful attack, which is theoretically impossible to
achieve. The static nodes service supports the communica-
tion network for the four DG controller nodes. By assigning
them as the miners, all of the nodes are incentivized to behave
legally to avoid the punishment of being eliminated from the
static nodes list. In addition, the fast mining rate of the pri-
vate blockchain enables its execution to match the sampling
rate of DCS thereby maintaining a good quality of control
results. The performance of the implemented blockchain for
the control system is presented in Table IV.
According to Table IV, the transaction per second (TPS)
of the proposed blockchain is improved to match the sam-
pling rate. The fluctuation of the TPS values is caused by
TABLE IV
PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS OF BLOCKCHAIN FOR CONTROL SYSTEM
the unstable functionality of the RPI but it is restrained in
an acceptable range and would not affect the control results
according to Fig. 6. The rapid increasing rate of the block
number is extremely difficult for the attacker to surpass, which
could effectively solve the external FDI attacks. The detec-
tion capability depends on the tracibility and transparency of
the blockchain system. The internal FDI attack is addressed
by eliminating the address of the malicious node from the
static nodes list. In addition, the storage cost is affordable for
the controller nodes since each of their gas balance is above
9 × 1056 according to Fig. 11, which proves the feasibility of
the proposed method.
B. Energy Trading Layer
In the second level, the energy trading within the microgrid
is secured by the PoA consensus protocol based blockchain
with the communication service provided by the Bootnode.
The trading role of each prosumer is flexible depending on
their power generation and demands. With the analysis of
the utility function and welfare functions, the proposed DA-
SI pricing scheme generates the optimal clearing price for
the energy trading and improves the social welfare for the
microgrid when it is compared with the DA-MR and PWG
methods. The proposed blockchain system is also energy
efficient as the mining difficulty is extremely low for pri-
vate blockchains and thus, the mining consumption could be
ignored in the energy trading calculation. The performance of
the implemented blockchain for the energy trading is presented
in Table V.
Compared to the blockchain performance with that of the
control system, the production rate of blocks is more stable
and it maintains at two seconds per block as a constant value.
This is because the requirement for the mining rate is much
slower than that of the control system blockchain and it could
be supported adequately by the RPIs. Due to fewer number
of mined blocks, the storage cost is also less than that of the
control system. The illegal trading behaviors are punished by
the PoA consensus protocol by depriving the authority role
of the nodes and the opportunity to trade, which ensures the
security and data integrity of the prosumers.
At last, the energy consumption caused by the computation
and operation of the blockchain for both the control system
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YANG et al.: HIERARCHICAL BLOCKCHAIN DESIGN FOR DISTRIBUTED CONTROL 3143
TABLE V
PERFORMANCE PARAMETERS OF BLOCKCHAIN FOR ENERGY TRADING
Fig. 14. The total computation and operation consumption of the hierarchical
blockchain system.
and energy trading is demonstrated in Fig. 14. The values
of the energy consumption of both layers are below 33W
and thereby being ignored in the welfare calculation. It also
proves the energy efficiency of the proposed method as the
difficulty of private blockchain is extremely low, leading to
less computation cost.
VII. CONCLUSION
This paper proposes a hierarchical blockchain system
for both the control system and energy trading system of
a microgrid. Both blockchain levels are set up based on
Ethereum platform and provide a comprehensive protection
for the microgrid. The private blockchain with static nodes
service is designed to protect the DCS against FDI attacks
within and outside the microgrid. It also ensures the control
quality without negative impact on the system performance. At
this level, the breakthrough of the blockchain application in
power systems is achieved by expanding its usage to the con-
trol system in addition to secure energy trading. The second
level blockchain is set up based on PoA consensus protocol
to maintain participants’ legal behaviors, and a smart contract
based DA-SI pricing scheme is designed to improve the social
welfare of the microgrid and maximize the benefit of both
producers and consumers. In the case study section, the imple-
mentation of the proposed blockchain and the smart contracts
deployment are specifically demonstrated. Numerical results
verify the effectiveness and feasibility of the proposed method
for both distributed control and energy trading system.
The future direction would be scaling up the size of the
microgrid and testing the performance of the hierarchical
blockchain structure. Since the blockchain system could be
damaged if 2/3 of the authority nodes or miners within the
microgrid become malicious, a larger microgrid size with more
prosumers could provide a more resilient blockchain system
against FDI attacks.
REFERENCES
[1] M. B. Mollah et al., “Blockchain for future smart grid: A comprehensive
survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 18–43, Jan. 2021.
[2] Q. Shafiee, Č. Stefanović, T. Dragičević, P. Popovski, J. C. Vasquez,
and J. M. Guerrero, “Robust networked control scheme for distributed
secondary control of islanded microgrids,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron.,
vol. 61, no. 10, pp. 5363–5374, Oct. 2014.
[3] R. Deng, G. Xiao, R. Lu, H. Liang, and A. V. Vasilakos, “False
data injection on state estimation in power systems—Attacks, impacts,
and defense: A survey,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 13, no. 2,
pp. 411–423, Apr. 2017.
[4] M. K. AlAshery et al., “A blockchain-enabled multi-settlement quasi-
ideal peer-to-peer trading framework,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 12,
no. 1, pp. 885–896, Jan. 2021.
[5] J. Yang, A. Paudel, H. B. Gooi, and H. D. Nguyen, “A proof-of-stake
public blockchain based pricing scheme for peer-to-peer energy trading,”
Appl. Energy, vol. 298, Sep. 2021, Art. no. 117154. [Online]. Available:
https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0306261921005900
[6] S. Chen et al., “A trusted energy trading framework by marrying
blockchain and optimization,” Adv. Appl. Energy, vol. 2, May 2021,
Art. no. 100029.
[7] S. Chen, L. Zhang, Z. Yan, and Z. Shen, “A distributed and robust
security-constrained economic dispatch algorithm based on blockchain,”
IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 691–700, Jan. 2022.
[8] M. R. Hamouda, M. E. Nassar, and M. M. A. Salama, “A novel energy
trading framework using adapted blockchain technology,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 2165–2175, May 2021.
[9] S. Chen, C. Xu, Z. Yan, X. Guan, and X. Le, “Accommodating
strategic players in distributed algorithms for power dispatch
problems,” IEEE Trans. Cybern., early access, Jun. 24, 2021,
doi: 10.1109/TCYB.2021.3085400.
[10] K. Zhou, J. Chong, X. Lu, and S. Yang, “Credit-based peer-to-peer elec-
tricity trading in energy blockchain environment,” IEEE Trans. Smart
Grid, vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 678–687, Jan. 2022.
[11] A. Paudel, K. Chaudhari, C. Long, and H. B. Gooi, “Peer-to-peer energy
trading in a prosumer-based community microgrid: A game-theoretic
model,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 66, no. 8, pp. 6087–6097,
Aug. 2019.
[12] M. Pilz and L. Al-Fagih, “Recent advances in local energy trading in
the smart grid based on game-theoretic approaches,” IEEE Trans. Smart
Grid, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 1363–1371, Mar. 2019.
[13] K. Anoh, S. Maharjan, A. Ikpehai, Y. Zhang, and B. Adebisi,
“Energy peer-to-peer trading in virtual microgrids in smart grids: A
game-theoretic approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 11, no. 2,
pp. 1264–1275, Mar. 2020.
[14] S. Aggarwal and N. Kumar, “A consortium blockchain-based energy
trading for demand response management in vehicle-to-grid,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 70, no. 9, pp. 9480–9494, Sep. 2021.
[15] Y. Li et al., “Optimal operation of multimicrogrids via cooperative
energy and reserve scheduling,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 14,
no. 8, pp. 3459–3468, Aug. 2018.
[16] G. Gao et al., “FogChain: A blockchain-based peer-to-peer solar power
trading system powered by fog AI,” IEEE Internet Things J., early
access, Aug. 31, 2021, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3109057.
[17] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang, and E. Hossain,
“Enabling localized peer-to-peer electricity trading among plug-in hybrid
electric vehicles using consortium blockchains,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 3154–3164, Dec. 2017.
[18] J. Zhao, G. Zhang, Z. Y. Dong, and K. P. Wong, “Forecasting-aided
imperfect false data injection attacks against power system nonlin-
ear state estimation,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 6–8,
Jan. 2016.
[19] G. Liang, S. R. Weller, J. Zhao, F. Luo, and Z. Y. Dong, “The 2015
Ukraine blackout: Implications for false data injection attacks,” IEEE
Trans. Power Syst., vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 3317–3318, Jul. 2017.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TCYB.2021.3085400
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3109057
3144 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 13, NO. 4, JULY 2022
[20] X. Liu, Z. Bao, D. Lu, and Z. Li, “Modeling of local false data injection
attacks with reduced network information,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1686–1696, Jul. 2015.
[21] A. S. Musleh, G. Chen, and Z. Y. Dong, “A survey on the detection
algorithms for false data injection attacks in smart grids,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 2218–2234, May 2020.
[22] Z.-H. Pang, G.-P. Liu, D. Zhou, F. Hou, and D. Sun, “Two-channel
false data injection attacks against output tracking control of networked
systems,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 63, no. 5, pp. 3242–3251,
May 2016.
[23] Y. He, G. J. Mendis, and J. Wei, “Real-time detection of false data injec-
tion attacks in smart grid: A deep learning-based intelligent mechanism,”
IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 2505–2516, Sep. 2017.
[24] J. J. Q. Yu, Y. Hou, and V. O. K. Li, “Online false data injection
attack detection with wavelet transform and deep neural networks,” IEEE
Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 14, no. 7, pp. 3271–3280, Jul. 2018.
[25] D. Said, “A decentralized electricity trading framework (DETF) for
connected EVs: A blockchain and machine learning for profit mar-
gin optimization,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 10,
pp. 6594–6602, Oct. 2021.
[26] S. Xia, F. Lin, Z. Chen, C. Tang, Y. Ma, and X. Yu, “A Bayesian
game based vehicle-to-vehicle electricity trading scheme for blockchain-
enabled Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 7,
pp. 6856–6868, Jul. 2020.
[27] N. Liu, L. Tan, L. Zhou, and Q. Chen, “Multi-party energy man-
agement of energy hub: A hybrid approach with Stackelberg game
and blockchain,” J. Mod. Power Syst. Clean Energy, vol. 8, no. 5,
pp. 919–928, Sep. 2020.
[28] L. Liu, M. Esmalifalak, Q. Ding, V. A. Emesih, and Z. Han, “Detecting
false data injection attacks on power grid by sparse optimization,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 612–621, Mar. 2014.
[29] C. Liu, H. Liang, and T. Chen, “Network parameter coordinated false
data injection attacks against power system AC state estimation,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 1626–1639, Mar. 2021.
[30] X. Liu, Y. Song, and Z. Li, “Dummy data attacks in power systems,”
IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 11, no. 2, pp. 1792–1795, Mar. 2020.
[31] S. Lakshminarayana, A. Kammoun, M. Debbah, and H. V. Poor, “Data-
driven false data injection attacks against power grids: A random
matrix approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 12, no. 1, pp. 635–646,
Jan. 2021.
[32] M. Ahmed and A.-S. K. Pathan, “False data injection attack (FDIA):
An overview and new metrics for fair evaluation of its countermeasure,”
Complex Adapt. Syst. Model., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 1–14, 2020.
[33] S. Aoufi, A. Derhab, and M. Guerroumi, “Survey of false data injection
in smart power grid: Attacks, countermeasures and challenges,” J. Inf.
Security Appl., vol. 54, Oct. 2020, Art. no. 102518.
[34] S. Zhai, Y. Yang, J. Li, C. Qiu, and J. Zhao, “Research on the application
of cryptography on the blockchain,” J. Phys. Conf. Ser., vol. 1168, no. 3,
2019, Art. no. 32077.
[35] C. Gorenflo, S. Lee, L. Golab, and S. Keshav, “FastFabric: Scaling
hyperledger fabric to 20 000 transactions per second,” Int. J. Netw.
Manag., vol. 30, no. 5, p. e2099, 2020.
[36] V. Buterin et al., “Ethereum white paper,” GitHub Repository, Rep. 1,
vol. 1, 2013, pp. 22–23. [Online]. Available: ethereum.org
[37] E. Androulaki et al., “Hyperledger fabric: A distributed operating system
for permissioned blockchains,” in Proc. 13th EuroSys Conf., 2018,
pp. 1–15.
[38] M. Valenta and P. Sandner, Comparison of Ethereum, Hyperledger
Fabric and Corda, Frankfurt School, Frankfurt, Germany and
Blockchain Center, New York, NY, USA, 2017.
[39] N. Prusty, Blockchain for Enterprise: Build Scalable Blockchain
Applications With Privacy, Interoperability, and Permissioned Features.
Birmingham, U.K.: Packt Publ. Ltd., 2018.
[40] M. J. Miranda and P. L. Fackler, Applied Computational Economics and
Finance. Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 2004.
[41] N. Liu, X. Yu, C. Wang, C. Li, L. Ma, and J. Lei, “Energy-sharing
model with price-based demand response for microgrids of peer-to-peer
prosumers,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 3569–3583,
Sep. 2017.
[42] X.-F. Wang, Y. Song, and M. Irving, Modern Power Systems Analysis.
Boston, MA, USA: Springer, 2010.
[43] S. Maharjan, Q. Zhu, Y. Zhang, S. Gjessing, and T. Başar, “Demand
response management in the smart grid in a large population regime,”
IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 189–199, Jan. 2016.
[44] C. Plott, N. Roy, and B. Tong, “Marshall and Walras, disequilibrium
trades and the dynamics of equilibration in the continuous double auction
market,” J. Econ. Behav. Org., vol. 94, pp. 190–205, Oct. 2013.
Jiawei Yang (Member, IEEE) received the B.E.
degree in electrical engineering and automation from
Wuhan University, China, in 2018, and the M.E.
degree in electrical and electronic engineering from
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore, in
2020, where he is currently pursuing the Ph.D.
degree in electrical engineering. His current research
interests include peer-to-peer energy trading and
blockchain application in power system control.
Jiahong Dai (Graduate Student Member,
IEEE) received the B.Eng. degree in smart grid
information engineering from the Hefei University
of Technology, China, in 2017. He is currently
pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the School of
Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang
Technological University, Singapore. His research
interest is cyber-resilience in smart grids, including
the application of software-defined network,
blockchain technology, and quantum learning in
microgrids and versatile validation testbeds for
cyber–physical systems and the cybersecurity research.
Hoay Beng Gooi (Life Senior Member, IEEE)
received the B.S. degree in electrical engineering
from National Taiwan University in 1978, the M.S.
degree in electrical engineering from the University
of New Brunswick in 1980, and the Ph.D. degree in
electrical engineering from Ohio State University in
1983. He is an Associate Professor with the School
of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Nanyang
Technological University, Singapore. His current
research interests include microgrid energy man-
agement systems dealing with storage, electricity
market, and spinning reserve.
Hung Dinh Nguyen (Senior Member, IEEE)
received the Ph.D. degree in electric power engineer-
ing from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,
Cambridge, MA, USA, in 2017. He is a 2017
Siebel Scholar in energy science. He is currently
an Assistant Professor of Electrical and Electronic
Engineering with Nanyang Technological University,
Singapore. His research interests include power
system operation and control with machine learning,
the nonlinearity, dynamics and stability of large scale
power systems; dynamic security assessment/energy
management system, and smart grids.
Ping Wang (Fellow, IEEE) received the bachelor’s
and master’s degrees in electrical and computer engi-
neering from the Huazhong University of Science
and Technology in 1994 and 1997, respectively, and
the Ph.D. degree in electrical and computer engi-
neering from the University of Waterloo, Canada,
in 2008. She is currently an Associate Professor
with the Department of Electrical Engineering and
Computer Science, York University. Prior to that,
she worked with Nanyang Technological University,
Singapore, from 2008 to 2018. Her research interests
are mainly in wireless communication networks, cloud computing, and the
Internet of Things. Her scholarly works have been widely disseminated
through top-ranked IEEE journals/conferences and received the Best Paper
Awards from IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference in
2020 and 2012, the IEEE Communication Society: Green Communications
& Computing Technical Committee in 2018, and the IEEE International
Conference on Communications in 2007. She is a Distinguished Lecturer of
the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:09:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice