WANA Wallet: The Application Design of Currency Wallets with Transaction Entertainment and Socialization Capital and Display Functions
 
 
WANA Wallet: The application design of 
currency  wallets with transaction entertainment and 
socialization capital and display functions 
Wen-Xuan Zeng 
Department of Interaction Design, 
National Taipei University of 
Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
t109ac8017@ntut.org.tw 
 
Ju-Chun Ko 
Department of Interaction Design, 
National Taipei University of 
Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
dablog@gmail.com
Wen-Hsuan Yang 
Department of Interaction Design, 
National Taipei University of 
Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
whyang.ixd@gmail.com 
 
Chi-Hao Lung 
Department of Interaction Design, 
National Taipei University of 
Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
drag0725@yahoo.com.tw 
Chun-Lin Pan 
Department of Interaction Design 
National Taipei University of 
TechnologyTaipei, Taiwan 
wdbps93206@gmail.com  
 
Hsiao-Yue Tsao 
Department of Interaction Design 
National Taipei University of 
Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
sytsau@ntut.edu.tw
Abstract—The rise of blockchain technology has made a 
particularly deep impact on financial technology. This study 
utilizes a gamification mechanism based on blockchain’s 
transparency and unalterableness to allow users to see each 
other’s transformed wallet data and virtual avatars during 
transactions, and in so doing, to build trust among users and 
make transactions fun. Meanwhile, the gamification mechanism 
will build a social group to enhance the perception of and 
interaction with the real world. This study intends to combine 
socialization capital and propose a brand-new financial 
experience and transaction model.  
Keywords—Currency wallet, Augmented Reality, social 
capital, blockchain, transaction entertainment 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Blockchain has become a technology buzzword. Endless 
advances in technologies have led to myriads of blockchain 
applications, e.g., cryptocurrencies, Initial Coin Offering 
(ICO), Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT), etc. Though the number 
of people familiar with blockchain technology is continuously 
climbing, over 70% of the general public still find it unfamiliar 
and therefore mistrust it, as of 2021[1]. Also, due to its limited 
social presence, this emerging technology is not widely known 
to all. Studies show that increasing interactive entertainment 
among users can effectively enhance the social presence and 
affect users’ loyalty, perceived ease of use and trust [2]. 
However, the required cryptocurrency wallet applications[3] 
in blockchain overlook the development of socialization 
capital and interactive entertainment experience. Therefore, 
this study focuses on cryptocurrency wallets, namely, 
blockchain technology and transaction entertainment. WANA 
Wallet, a type of cryptocurrency wallet, has been created to 
offer transaction entertainment and socialization capital 
display. The investigation will also be made on whether 
“transaction entertainment improves user experience”; and 
whether “socialization capital enhances trust among users” 
when using WANA Wallet. 
As blockchain information has the characteristics of being 
open, transparent and unalterable, WANA Wallet offers 
gamified wallet data transformation, so that users can display 
wallet status and personal virtual identity of their own accord 
when engaged in games during the transaction. In doing so, 
users can build mutual trust towards each other and indirectly 
avoid potential frauds. The interface of WANA Wallet 
packaged with games and entertainment to lure the general 
public into the world of blockchain. In the traditional financial 
sector, there are many successful cases of integrated finance 
and transaction entertainment, e.g., Line Pay, JKOPAY and 
Taiwan Pay, which have brought new transaction trends to the 
market.  
NFT promotes the socialization value in the world of 
blockchain. Given the commercial financial value created by 
NFT, it is amply evident that people are taking socialization 
value more and more seriously. So, social groups for WANA 
Wallet can also be created for research purposes. Using 
functions like mutual following, buying and selling NFT 
collectibles is an innovative way for users to display their 
socialization assets through cryptocurrency wallets. 
Nowadays, cryptocurrency wallets are getting better 
developed, and proposing new concepts for integration is only 
necessary. This study intends to combine socialization capital, 
entertainment and cryptocurrency wallets to lower the entry 
threshold for users to the world of blockchain.   
II. DESIGN CONCEPT 
Transaction application programs in blockchain are all 
equipped with basic functions like payment transfer , wallet 
address display and NFT browsing. . Studies show that 
socialization can better satisfy people’s needs than 
money[4].  When the aforementioned socialization capital and 
social entertainment are satisfied, the top level of Maslow's 
hierarchy of needs are also satisfied: self-actualization[5].   
The fact that people use online social platforms to interact 
and share information indicates that such platforms, will allow 
users to amass socialization capital. One study points out that 
the impact of gamification can bring entertainment and 
enhance user adhesion. Of the eight core concepts in 
gamification, “Possession and Ownership” and “Social Impact 
and Connection” will both impact the electronic virtual 
transaction platforms[6]. Currently socialization capital and 
social entertainment features are less developed in most 
transaction applications in blockchain. This indicates that 
there is much business potential for the development of 
cryptocurrency wallet applications.   
978-1-6654-7050-6/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
2022 IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics - Taiwan
537
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
on
su
m
er
 E
le
ct
ro
ni
cs
 - 
Ta
iw
an
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
70
50
-6
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
CE
-T
AI
W
AN
55
30
6.
20
22
.9
86
89
84
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:26:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
This study centers around socialization capital and builds a 
socialization-oriented cryptocurrency wallet that enables users 
to build up their socialization capital when using 
cryptocurrency wallets. A gamification mechanism will also 
work in conjunction with the transparency of blockchain to 
keep users fast informed of the transaction status and build 
mutual trust, thereby to enhance the entertainment and 
immersive experience for users. Meanwhile, a new 
cryptocurrency transaction system will be constructed in such 
a way that the general public will learn about blockchain and 
subsequently take part in it. 
III. PROTOTYPE 
This study presents a type of cryptocurrency wallets based 
on the transparent blockchain, integrating augmented reality 
and social group functions to increase the perception of and 
interaction with reality and improve transaction experience.  
Fig. 1. Present Upon entering WANA Wallet, users can 
create a virtual identity, scan QR Code, and see a virtual avatar 
carrying out virtual commands on their behalf, whereby 
having an immersive transaction experience, which will bring 
users closer together, much like the way the “Possession and 
Ownership” feature does in gamification theories. Meanwhile, 
with the characteristic transparent and unalterable blockchain, 
the gamification mechanism allows one to see other users’ 
transformed wallet data during the transaction. For instance, 
when users have 300 NFT collectibles or complete 50 
transactions, they will receive an “NFT Collector” or 
“Honorable Dealer” emblem from the system. This will give 
users a reference point that is not visible in regular transaction 
programs, and a function not yet available in cryptocurrency 
wallets on the market. After the transaction, virtual avatar 
accessories will be admitted into the user account in 
accordance with exclusive contract addresses to create a sense 
of post-transaction fun, satisfaction, and user loyalty.  
 
Fig.1 Transaction Entertainment 
Fig. 2. Present Users can use the accessory-assembled 
virtual avatar as their exclusive profile image in the wallet. 
People in the old days would stamp their name chops onto 
scrolls of paintings; the more name chops of famous people 
there are on the painting, the more valuable the painting is. So, 
the number of famous people appearing on the painting 
indicates the visibility of the painting. This study takes into 
consideration such psychological factors at play in online 
social groups, utilizes NFT’s socialization value and displays 
the number of personal collectibles and followers on one’s 
main pages, as a function that is linked to “Social impact and 
connection” in gamification theories.  
 
Fig 2. Socialization capital display 
 
Fig3. Flowchart of the innovative WANA currency wallet 
IV. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 
Cryptocurrency wallets where only basic payment transfer 
is available but blockchain’s development cycles, as well as 
socialization capital and entertainment for the users are 
overlooked. Proposed new concepts are starkly different and 
innovative. Offering socialization capital and entertainment 
will satisfy users’ psychological needs of self-actualization. 
Social interaction will trigger transaction behaviors. Such a 
cycle proves the importance of combining socialization capital 
with financial behaviors. Yet in combining socialization and 
finance lie potential risks on trust issues. In application 
programs, gamification data in blockchain is provided as the 
basis for user transaction. However, data transformation 
methods and principles still require further lab testing for 
future planning and for identifying what kind of data users will 
require in order to trust, use and rely on cryptocurrency 
wallets. The above can be actualized through blockchain 
applications and thus lay out the direction of further studies.  
For future studies, the focus will be on the assessment of 
WANA Wallet’s practical system applications, using KANO 
Model to evaluate the transaction entertainment and 
innovative design in combined service mechanism of WANA 
Wallet. 
V. REFERENCES 
[1] Chen, You-Ping, and Ju-Chun Ko. "The Impact of AR Filter Combines 
Blockchain Virtual Online Pets and brings Blockchain into our 
lives." 2020 IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics-
Taiwan (ICCE-Taiwan). IEEE, 2020. 
[2] Biocca, Frank, Chad Harms, and Judee K. Burgoon. "Toward a more 
robust theory and measure of social presence: Review and suggested 
criteria." Presence: Teleoperators & virtual environments 12.5 (2003): 
456-480. 
[3] Suratkar, Saurabh, Mahesh Shirole, and Sunil Bhirud. "Cryptocurrency 
wallet: A review." 2020 4th International Conference on Computer, 
Communication and Signal Processing (ICCCSP). IEEE, 2020. 
[4] David Houghton, Andrew Pressey, Doga Istanbulluoglu,Who needs 
social networking? An empirical enquiry into the capability of 
Facebook to meet human needs and satisfaction with life,Computers in 
Human Behavior,Volume 104,2020,106153,ISSN 0747-
5632,https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2019.09.029. 
[5] Steinfield, Charles, Nicole B. Ellison, and Cliff Lampe. "Social capital, 
self-esteem, and use of online social network sites: A longitudinal 
analysis." Journal of applied developmental psychology 29.6 (2008): 
434-445. 
[6] Azmi, Lina Fatini, Norasnita Ahmad, and Noorminshah A. Iahad. 
"Gamification Elements in E-commerce–A Review." 2021 
International Congress of Advanced Technology and Engineering 
(ICOTEN). IEEE, 2021. 
538Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:26:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.