Energy Block Chain Trading Mechanism Based on Game Strategy
Energy Block Chain Trading Mechanism
Based on Game Strategy
Xuesong Zhou 1,2, Donghui Xu1,2* Youjie Ma1,2,Fuhou Tu1
1School of Electrical Engineering and Automation
Tianjin University of Technology
2Tianjin Key Laboratory of Control Theory and Application
in Complex Systems
Tianjin University of Technology
Binshui Xidao Extension 391,Tianjin 300384,China Binshui Xidao Extension 391,Tianjin 300384,China
zxsmyj@126.com
*corresponding author: 1479817312@qq.com
zxsmyj@126.com
1613663775@qq.com
Abstract - With the rapid development of photovoltaic, wind
power and other new energy sources, more and more renewable
energy sources have been applied to the power market. However,
there is still a serious phenomenon of "abandoning light and
wind" at the present stage. In Addition, China's fossil energy still
occupies a dominant position. Therefore, how to improve the
utilization rate of renewable energy and reduce carbon emissions
is a problem worthy of study. Based on micro the renewable
energy power suppliers and power grid in the net in the thermal
power suppliers as the research object, based on cooperative
game model is established and the consensus league chain
mechanism, combined with the carbon emission reduction
contribution and load characteristics, set up power and new
energy power plant net income for the biggest target of
cooperative game model, and through the analysis of the trading
main body's contribution to the alliance, Improve Shapley value
profit distribution model. Simulation results show that: based on
the cooperative game formed by blockchain, the total profit of
power suppliers is higher than the sum of the profits of power
suppliers under the traditional mode, which improves the
utilization rate of renewable energy, reduces the rate of
abandoned light and wind, and reduces the carbon emissions.
Index Terms - mechanism of exchange, consensus mechanism,
cooperative game
I. INTRODUCTION
At present, in the "carbon neutral" goal, driven by
electrical energy in the field of zero carbon such as wind
power and solar energy, tidal power new energy into the
development phase, but our country new energy trading
market mechanism is imperfect [1], the system reform does
not reach the designated position, user green energy-saving
consciousness is not strong, there are abandoned electric, more
difficult given, the price is high, Hindering the process of
using new energy power generation to achieve carbon
neutrality.
To better promote the new energy given in a timely
manner, and guide society from traditional to low carbon
energy utilization of new energy electricity conceptual change,
optimize the structure of electric energy supply, improve the
efficiency of energy use, the need to further optimize energy
security system in our country, break the barrier of the electric
power information, resolve the problem of trust, promote new
energy electricity utilization, To provide safe, fast and effic-
ient energy trading services for power market subjects.
At present, the development of blockchain technology
has entered the 3.0 era, which can not only record the main
body data in the chain, but also record any valuable things that
can be expressed in the form of code[2]. The generation time
of each block has been reduced to 10~15s. For the electric
energy trading mechanism in the spot market, which is mainly
aimed at the days, days and hours, the block chain can better
serve the scheduling trading demand of the electric power spot
trading market.
At present, there have been some studies on the trans-
action mechanism of the electricity market. Reference [3]
makes an in-depth discussion on the electricity transaction
method of distribution network, but fails to consider the
transaction factors concerned by the mutual selection of the
transaction parties. Reference [4] proposed that the absorption
of photovoltaic surplus electric energy through smart contract
could improve the absorption rate of new energy on the
premise of ensuring the stability of the electricity market, but
factors such as demand response delay and economic benefit
in the transaction process were not considered. In reference
[5], the bidding method of multiple wind farms‘joint quotation
is proposed in order to reduce uncertainty penalty. Reference
[6] proposes a method based on multi-agent bidding equilib-
rium to simulate bidding transactions in microgrid. Reference
[7] studies the power purchase strategy of large users in the
power market based on incomplete information. However,
most of the above researches use auction mechanism or non-
cooperative game theory to realize electricity trading. For the
same problem, if the participants adopt the cooperative game,
they can get more benefits than the non-cooperative game. At
the same time, the existing research is still under the
traditional centralized mode of exploration, there are still some
problems such as transaction information asymmetry, trans-
action processing efficiency.
Therefore, this article on the basis of existing research, in
a distributed fire in new energy power suppliers and power
grid power suppliers as the research object, to the power
supply reliability, low carbon and transaction costs for the
game factors, set up alliance for a green trade cooperation
chain, through data security interaction, trade complementary
decisions, in order to realize the traditional power supply
mode toward low carbon, high efficiency of power supply
mode, Reduce transaction costs and reduce carbon emissions
from electricity.
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 M
ec
ha
tro
ni
cs
 a
nd
 A
ut
om
at
io
n 
(I
C
M
A
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
08
53
-0
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
M
A
54
51
9.
20
22
.9
85
60
34
904978-1-6654-0853-0/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
Proceedings of 2022 IEEE
International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation
August 7 - 10, Guilin China
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
II. GAME ARCHITECTURE DESIGN OF POWER MARKET BASED
ON BLOCK CHAIN TECHNOLOGY
A. Overall System Architecture Design
The overall architecture of the power market trading
system based on the alliance block chain is shown in Fig. 1.
The alliance chain takes the transaction chain as the main
chain, while the natural information chain, dispatching chain,
power grid supervision chain and power data chain serve as
side chains, which can well ensure the security and data
independence of various power codes. Node according to its
different chain access real-time access to data, the chain
increase trading regulation and confidentiality of data, data to
avoid excessive inflation, break the barrier of the information
at the same time, reduce the degree of information asymmetry,
improve exchange rate, completely conform to the electric
power market and strong controllability, quick speed, good
data confidentiality and high transaction throughput of
comprehensive requirements.
Fig. 1 Energy blockchain architecture design
The trading subjects are thermal power plants,
photovoltaic power plants, wind power plants and load users,
etc. Among them, thermal power plants and distributed new
energy power plants cooperate with each other in terms of
carbon emission reduction contribution, power supply
reliability, depth peak load balancing and other factors by
smart contract and consensus mechanism, so as to ensure the
maximization of green and economy and reduce the game
cost. In addition, the power grid supervision side chain
supervises and manages the operation data of each main body
of the power market to ensure the reliable and stable operation
of the power market and provide a reliable theoretical basis for
the game between the main body of the transaction.
B. Blockchain Consensus Mechanism Design
Based on low carbon environmental protection, avoid
waste example force principle, power league chain uses the
Ouroboros random algorithm, using the contribution values of
node user's alliance and contribution cycle as the product of
interest in the currency of age, the traditional trust voting
mechanism contributing to union optimized scheduling
mechanism, sorting coins age form the rights and interests of
the top 5% of node set, The Ouroboros algorithm is used to
randomly select the master node from the equity node set. The
random algorithm is unpredictable, which ensures the
characteristics of low loss and high expansibility. Meanwhile,
the security of the system is optimized and the decentralized
characteristics are further improved.
.
0
( ( )
T
on on
i t i
t
Rank C T S

  (1)
1 2( , , ) ( , , )j i NF S sl S S S S   …, (2)
.min .max
on on on
i i iC C C  (3)
Where, on
iC is the contribution value of node i in the alliance,
S is the set of equity holder candidates,  is the random seed,
jsl is the node j in the slot, iS is the primary node. .min
on
iC 、
.max
on
iC represents the minimum and maximum contribution
value specified by the candidate set of node i in the alliance.
The stochastic algorithm selects the master node for
slot trading session from the set of candidates S . During the
same epoch period, S and  remain constant until the end of
the period. According to the results of the last round of
electric energy trading, a new certificate of equity
 , ,decp ev
ki i iv C R is generated, updated S , and a new  is
randomly generated to enter the next trading cycle.
The improved consensus algorithm selects the block-
maker in the current slot according to the probability of the
equity ratio. Only all nodes in the trust node set
, 1i j NS   participate in the consensus process. The trust node
iS that is currently empowered creates a block and broadcast it
to other trust nodes i jS  for verification. After verification is
successful, the block is added to the local area to reach
consensus on the latest height block. Once the violation is
detected, the system will deduct the credit value and monetary
amount of the node, and the successful mining node will be
rewarded with the block fee.
Ⅲ. POWER GRID GAME MODEL
Definition: cooperative game  ,N v ,  1,    N n … , ,
characteristic function v represents the benefits of the
cooperative alliance as a whole[8-9]. characteristic function v
Satisfies super additivity, means:
       
        
1
1 2,   ,
          1 2 3,   ,
n
i
v N v v n
v v v n v i

 
    
…
… …
(4)
When the inequality relation is established, it proves that
the alliance has cooperative benefits, but whether the new
alliance can be maintained in the long run depends on how to
distribute cooperative surplus. N-dimensional real-paid vector
finally obtained by each alliance member  1,   , n
nx x x R …
Need to meet：
1) Holistic rationality means that the alliance, as a
subject, plays a game with players outside the alliance or the
alliance to strive for cooperative surplus[8-10] :
  1 1 =nx x x v N  … (5)
2) Individual rationality means that no player will accept
less than the level of payment at the time of the alliance:
905
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
  ,ix v i i N  (6)
The standard definition of game model of multi-energy
trading strategy proposed in this paper is as follows: In the
blockchain-based power grid, cooperative alliance C is
composed of large power grid thermal power supplier T and
micro grid renewable energy power supplier R, namely,
cooperative game model is [ , ]C R T .Define the objective
function to represent the profits of alliance C. After cooper-
ation, the two power suppliers can be regarded as a grid group
with different power generation modes, and trade with the
outside in the form of a whole. In the wind and light
abandoning period of the system, the thermal power plant and
the distributed new energy electric field carry out alliance
cooperation, that is, by purchasing the remaining distributed
new energy to improve the abandonment rate of the new
energy power plant and reduce the high carbon rate of the
traditional thermal power plant.
A. Trading Strategy Model Construction
Based on game theory, a cooperative game model of
multi-power energy trading strategy is constructed. This
model conforms to the circular game law of “energy bidding
first and energy consumption adjustment later” in the energy
trading market, and provides a reasonable reference for the
trading mechanism by solving the optimal strategy that fits the
interests of both parties.
In order to transform the power structure to low carbon
emission reduction, increase the proportion of distributed new
energy consumption and secure and reliable power supply,
introduce carbon emission reduction quota mechanism. In
day-ahead transaction mode, the cost of traditional thermal
power plants includes generation cost, unit start-up and
shutdown cost and high carbon cost.
1) Cost of generating electricity from coal-fired power
plants
It is mainly related to the energy purchase cost, operation
cost and environmental cost.
2
TG T TC aQ bQ c   (7)
Where, TQ is the amount of electricity generated by A thermal
power plant, 0, 0, 0a b c  
2) Unit start-up and shutdown costs
, , 1 ,(1 )
T
st
S i t i t i t
i
C u u C

  (8)
Where, ,i tu is the state of the crew at the time, run for 1,stop
for 0, ,
st
i tC is start-up cost of unit i.
3) High carbon cost
For traditional thermal power plants, carbon emissions
are high. If carbon emissions are higher than national
standards, in the absence of carbon capture and storage
technology, which will produce a certain penalty cost ec
penC .
0
=max p pec
pen P
e
C C
e

（ ,0） (9)
Where, P is the penalty coefficient of carbon emission excess
ratio, Pe is the actual carbon emission, 0e is the reference
carbon emission, PC is carbon emissions penalize costs.
Therefore, in the traditional non-cooperative transaction
mode, the total cost of thermal power plant TC is
T T
ec
T G S penC C C C   (10)
In day-ahead transaction mode, the cost of distributed
new energy power plant includes generation cost, abandon-
ment cost, energy storage cost.
1) The cost composition of different distributed new
energy generation is different. The cost of distributed new
energy generation CRC is mainly the variable cost related to
power generation and the fixed cost of power generation
equipment purchase and maintenance.
CR RC dQ e  (11)
Where, is the power supply of distributed new energy power
plant, 0, 0d e 
2) Energy storage cost
,( / 1)cd p loss
es i i k iC C C   (12)
Where, ,/cd p
i i kC  represents the ideal charge and discharge cost
without considering the charge and discharge efficiency, loss
iC
is the cost of electric energy loss.
3) Energy abandonment costs
1
sell esm
j j
rp pact
j j
Q Q
C C
Q

  (13)
Where: m is the number of units in the new energy power
plant, pC is the cost of energy abandonment per unit of the
system, sell
jQ is the sold electricity in the power plant, es
jQ is
the stored electricity in the power plant, and act
jQ is the actual
electricity generation of the power plant on the day.
4) New energy is susceptible to environmental factors
such as wind speed and illumination, and its power generation
is unstable. If the actual generating capacity is lower than the
contracted amount, it shall pay liquidated damages.
2 1(0.97 ) ( )sr ow ow rice rice
pen as actC P P P P    (14)
Where, sr
enC is the penalty amount of the power plant, cl
enC is
the penalty amount of the user, avC is the average price of
market transaction, ow
asC is the agreed transaction electricity,
ow
actC is the actual transmission electricity, and 0 is the daily
interest rate.
Therefore, under the traditional non-cooperative trans-
action mode, the total cost of distributed new energy power
plant RC is
R
sr
R G es rp penC C C C C    (15)
B. Game Strategies
In the day-ahead transaction mode, after the load users
send the electricity demand data to the blockchain, the
distributed new energy power plants and thermal power plants
release the generation plan and corresponding electricity price
906
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
in turn.
When there is excess electricity, the distributed new
energy supplier will sell it to the large power grid thermal
power supplier at a lower price to obtain certain benefits.
Revenue RE earned by distributed new energy suppliers from
selling excess electricity to large grid thermal power suppliers
and the cost TcC paid by the thermal power supplier from the
distributed new energy power supplier are as follows:
0max( ,0)R Rm RE P Q Q   (16)
0( ) max( ,0)Tc R tc RC P P Q Q    (17)
Where, mRP is the selling price of the excess electric quantity
of distributed new energy, 0Q is the actual electric quantity
demanded by the distributed new energy power supplier, and
tcP is the electric power transmission cost per unit electric
quantity per unit distance.
On the contrary, when the distributed new energy power
supplier is short of power supply, in order to meet the needs of
users, the distributed new energy power supplier will also
purchase the electricity needed from the thermal power
supplier of the large grid, that is, the purchase cost cRC of the
distributed new energy power supplier and the sales revenue
TE of the thermal power supplier are respectively:
0max( ,0)T T TE P Q Q   (18)
0( ) max( ,0)Rc R tc RC P P Q Q    (19)
Where, TP is the electricity price of thermal power plants, and
0Q is the actual demand of distributed new energy power
suppliers.
To sum up, the revenue of distributed new energy power
supplier is composed of user power supply, incentive benefit
and revenue of part of electricity sold to large power grid
thermal power supplier when supply exceeds demand. Cost
includes generation cost, penalty cost and cost of purchasing
power from large power grid thermal power supplier when
supply is less than demand. The profit function of distributed
new energy power supplier and large grid thermal power
supplier is:
ec
T CT pen TC TC C C C E    (20)
sr
R CR pen RC R sC C C C E C     (21)
In electricity market based on the block chain, distributed
new energy power suppliers and power grid power supply
business as the main participants, making its own power
supply strategy should consider other power suppliers may
take power supply strategy, power suppliers to maximize the
interests of not only related to their own decisions, also will be
affected by other producers. The application of blockchain
effectively improves the timeliness and trading volume of
bilateral transactions, and reduces greenhouse gas emissions
while improving the utilization rate of renewable energy. In
cooperation, the incentive benefit of each power supplier
increases and the penalty cost decreases, while the application
of blockchain reduces its decision-making cost.
C. Alliance Multi-agent Benefit Distribution Based on Shapley
Value
According to the definition of the model, the revenue of
the cooperative game is greater than that of the non-
cooperative game. This encourages distributed new energy
power suppliers and large power grid thermal power suppliers
to actively adopt blockchain technology for cooperation.
Compared with non-cooperative game, cooperative game
focuses on the reasonable distribution of profits, and Shapley
value method can be applied to calculate the profits iP of grid
participants[11-12], which is based on the average marginal
contribution value of each member of the alliance to share
profits, that is, the greater the contribution, the greater the
profit.
   
( )
( ) / , 1, 2,3
i
i
s i s
P s p s p s i i N

     …, (22)
     ! 1 !
!
N s s
s
N

 
 (23)
Where, is represents all subsets of grid power suppliers
included in the alliance; s represents the number of power
suppliers in subset s;  s represents the weighting factor
and distribution factor of each power supplier;  P s is the
income of set s;  /P s i represents the profit obtained from
the alliance cooperation formed by the remaining power
suppliers after the power plant power supplier i is removed
from set s.
In this paper, a profit distribution model based on
Shapely value is constructed, which fully considers the value
of members in cooperation, and introduces a correction factor
to adjust the distribution of cooperation benefits to avoid
uneven profit distribution.
         
( )
! 1 ! 1/ +
!
i
i i
s i s
N s s
P p s p s i k P s
N N
           
 (24)
. .i p i c ik k k   (25)
Where, ik is the distribution coefficient of trading income;
.p ik is the contribution coefficient of peak regulation, .c ik is the
contribution coefficient of carbon emission reduction;  con-
tributes weight to peak regulation;  contributes weight to
carbon reduction; The sum of  and  is 1, it represents the
dynamic relationship of .p ik and .c ik .
1) The contribution coefficient of peak adjustment costs
shall be borne by new energy power plants, thermal power
plants that have not fulfilled their obligations, and electricity
purchasing users in accordance with the proportion of
electricity in the current period.
2
0
1
,
( / )
n
i i i
i
p i
T
PT T K
K
M

 


(26)
Where, TM is the total peak regulation contribution of the
unit in one day; The number n is the number of complete peak
adjustment processes in one day; iP is within one day peak
907
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
adjustment amplitude of the I peak adjustment process; 0T is
the calculation time of statistical accuracy; iT is the peak
adjustment time of the i peak adjustment process; iK is the
excitation coefficient of the unit, indicating the comprehensive
peak shaving performance of the unit.
2) Carbon emission reduction contribution coefficient
, 1 2 3
( )
( ) ( ) ( , , )
( )( ) ( )
i
ct i
ccs ac
c i i i
aog g
C t
C t P tk e e e p w h
P tC t C t

 




   

(27)
Where: ( )
ct
iC t is the carbon trading volume of power plant in
time t (including new energy power purchase hydrogen energy
storage); ( )
ccs
iC t is the carbon capture and sequestration stock
of power plant in time t, ( )i
gC t is the total carbon emission of
the power plant in time t, 1 2 3, ,e e e respectively are carbon
emission reduction impact factors, ( )acP t is the actual peak
regulating quantity of new energy, ( )aoP t is the peak
regulating quantity that should be shared by new energy,  is
the priority coefficient of distributed energy; a is the carbon
emission reduction contribution coefficient of different types
of new energy, , ,p w h respectively represent photovoltaic,
wind and hydraulic power generation types.
D. Cooperative Game Solution Flow Chart
Fig. 2 Cooperative game solving flow chart
The solving process of cooperative game model is shown
in Fig. 2.
Based on game theory, the power supply strategy of
power suppliers is studied to maximize the benefits of each
power plant. After the application of alliance chain
technology, power generation information and carbon
emission information of each power plant are open and
transparent, and each power plant node can obtain information
related to its own decision through block chain, forming a new
cooperative game strategy, reducing decision cost and
increasing energy consumption. At the end of each trading
cycle, the trading results and status information of each power
plant will be packaged by the miner nodes selected by the
random algorithm and transmitted to each node of the system
in the form of P2P.
Ⅳ. ANALYSIS OF EXAMPLES
In order to verify the validity and feasibility of the smart
grid transaction optimization strategy research based on block-
chain technology in this paper, the generation plan and user
load demand data of each energy power plant in a certain
region are used for simulation test in this section. The system
consists of two distributed photovoltaic power plants, one
distributed wind power plant and one thermal power plant, and
the other users are load users. In this area, the maximum
power consumption was 189MW, the maximum output power
of photovoltaic power was 19.3 MW and 19MW, the
maximum output power of wind farm was 41MW, and the on-
grid price of photovoltaic, wind power and thermal power was
0.352 yuan/(kW·h), 0.343 yuan/(kW·h) and 0.340 yuan/
(kW·h) respectively. The prediction of next-day load and new
energy in this region is shown in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4.
Fig. 3 Next-day load prediction curve
Fig. 4 Distributed prediction curve of new energy
As shown in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, the main power supply
time of photovoltaic power plant is 6h-18h without
908
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
considering the state of energy storage, while the power
supply of wind power plant is sufficient and stable in 0-12h
and 18h-24h.
Based on the load and distributed new energy prediction
curves, the cooperative game model is compared with the
traditional economic model. Fig. 5 for the two kinds of
transaction mode power generating capacity, as the new
energy power plant electricity utilization, in stage enough new
energy power generation, coal-fired power plant capacity is
reduced, the above available, coal-fired power generation and
carbon emissions were positively correlated, so the available,
compared with the traditional model, under the mode of
cooperative game, the carbon emissions of coal-fired power
plants is greatly reduced, About 7.1% of the time.
Fig. 5 Power generation of thermal power plants under the two trading modes
In order to absorb new energy in time and reduce carbon
emissions, thermal power plants serve as auxiliary power
supply. In other words, when distributed new energy is
sufficient and can meet its own trading contract, thermal
power plants give priority to purchase distributed new energy
and reduce their own electricity output. Although their own
electricity generation decreases, carbon emission reduction
costs decrease, the total profit still increases. When distributed
new energy supply, to purchase thermal power plant
resources, at this time to buy some electricity price is lower
than its feed-in tariff, load is still in the original price sale to
the customer, so the new energy power plants can meet the
demand of their own trading, compensate for the deficiency of
the Internet as a result of environmental conditions, but also
can gain differential benefit, therefore its profit higher than
that of traditional mode. The profit comparison between
distributed new energy and thermal power plants under the
two trading modes is shown in Fig. 6.
Fig. 6 Profit comparison of power plants under two trading modes
After the distributed cooperative game and Nash
equilibrium is obtained, the buying and selling price of P2P
power transaction in a day, in which every 2h within 24 hours
is selected as an interval on the horizontal coordinate. It can be
seen that the P2P transaction price fluctuates between the on-
grid price and the retail price in a day. When the distributed
new energy is sufficient and can meet its own transaction
contract, the thermal power plant gives priority to purchase the
distributed new energy and reduce its own electricity output.
The selling price of this part is still less than the on-grid price
of the thermal power plant itself. When the supply of
distributed new energy is insufficient, it turns to purchase
thermal power plant resources, but the on-grid price of new
energy is still not there.
From the profit level of each power supplier, It is feasible
and effective to use Shapley value method to distribute the
profit of cooperative game based on the profit level of each
power supplier. Compared with the traditional model, the
monthly profits of both distributed new energy power
suppliers and thermal power plants in the blockchain-based
cooperative game model have increased, so each power
supplier has a great incentive to cooperate with other power
suppliers to obtain more profits. At the same time, the
blockchain-based cooperative game model can reduce the
waste of renewable energy, better implement energy
conservation and emission reduction, and effectively promote
the sustainable development of the power grid market.
Ⅴ. CONCLUSION
This paper takes distributed new energy generators and
thermal power generators as the research object, combines
carbon emission reduction contribution and peak adjustment
characteristics, establishes the cooperative game model of
thermal power and new energy generators with the goal of
maximum net income, and improves the Shapley value profit
distribution model by analyzing the contribution of transaction
subjects to the alliance. The simulation results show that the
application of blockchain can effectively solve the problem of
real-time information sharing between power suppliers, reduce
the decision-making transaction cost and reserve power of
power suppliers, promote energy consumption in a timely
manner, and improve the profits of power suppliers. On this
basis, based on the cooperation game formed by blockchain,
the total profits of power suppliers are higher than the sum of
profits of power suppliers under the traditional mode, which
improves the power and enthusiasm of power suppliers in
cooperation, promotes the utilization rate of renewable energy,
reduces the wind and light abandonment rate of new energy,
and reduces carbon emissions. It effectively promotes the
sustainable development of the power supply side and is
conducive to the implementation of the concept of
environmental protection.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work is supported by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China (Research on Dynamic Harmonic
909
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Interaction Mechanism and Control Method of Microgrid, No.
51877152).
REFERENCES
[1] Jinlei Qin, Wenqiang Sun, Youchan Zhu, et al,“Energy trans-action
method of microgrid based on blockchain,” ,Electric Power Automation
Equipment, vol.40,no.11,pp. 130-138,2020.
[2] Peng Zou, Qixin Zou, Qing Xia, et al. “Logic analysis of foreign power
spot market construction and its enlightenment and suggestions to
China,”Automation of electric power systems, vol.38, no.13,pp.18-27,
2014.
[3] Wenguang Zhu, Ning Xiong, Shiyuan Zhong, et al,“Power trading
method for distribution network based on blockchain,”Power System
Protection and Control, vol.46,no.24,pp. 165-172,2018.
[4] NAGATSUKA T, SANO M, YAMAGUCHI N. “Experiment of execu-
tion time in decentralized transaction system of surplus PV output using
blockchain,” IEEJ Transactions on Power and Energy, vol.140,no.3,pp.
176-185,2020.
[5] ZHAOY, QINJ, R AJAGOPAL R, et al. “Wind aggregation via risky
power markets,”IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol.30,no.3,pp.
1571-1581,2015.
[6] Xiangyu Kong, Yi Zeng, Ning Lu, et al. “Optimal bidding manage-
ment for agent-based microgrid operation,”Proceedings of the CSEE,
vol.37,no.6,pp. 1626-1633,2017.
[7] Yongquan Chen, Jingxia Zhang, Cunsheng Xin, et al. “Research on
power Purchase Strategy of large users based on Game Theory,” Value
engineering, vol.38,no.26,pp. 125-128,2019.
[8] Shi H C. “Study on wind-fire energy outsourcing and profit distribution
mechanism based on cooperative game,”Xi an University of Tech-
nology, 2019.
[9] Wen xia Liu, Lina Wang, Shuai Zhang, et al. “Model of day-ahead self-
owned power plant and wind power right Trading based on Cooperative
Game Theory,”Power grid technology,vol.47,no.03,pp. 1-3, April, 2019
[10] Nian Liu, Jing Zhao, Jie Wang, et al. “A model of PV microgrid cluster
trading based on cooperative game theory,”Transactions of China
Electrotechnical Society,vol.33,no.8,pp. 1903-1910,2018.
[11] Liyun Guo, Liangyuan Wang, Yuewen Jiang. “Optimal acceptance level
of micro-grid wind power considering economy and transmission
security margin,” Journal of fuzhou university (natural science),
vol.47,no.03,pp. 352-358,2019
[12] Yifan Zhou, Wei Hu, Yong Min, et al. “Peak regulation compensation
price decision for combined heat and power unit and profit allocation
method,”Proceedings of the CSEE, vol.39,no.18,pp. 5325-5335,2019
910
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.