Blockchain-based Cryptocurrency Price Prediction with
Chaos Theory, Onchain Analysis, Sentiment Analysis
and Fundamental-Technical Analysis
Akif Akgul ID ∗,1, Eyyüp Ensari Şahin ID β,2 and Fatma Yıldız Şenol ID β,3
∗Department of Computer Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, Hitit University, 19030, Çorum, Türkiye, βDepartment of Banking and Finance, Faculty of
Economics and Administrative Sciences, Hitit University, Çorum, Türkiye.
ABSTRACT Crypto assets succeeded in making their name known to large masses with Bitcoin, which
emerged as a result of the creation of the first genesis block in 2008. Until 2010, the aforementioned
recognition showed itself mostly in areas such as games, but over time it managed to enter the portfolios of
individual investors. Especially as of end of 2017, the rapid increases in monetary value quickly attracted
the attention of corporate companies and then the (Central Banks). These assets have created different
alternatives (also know as altcoins) by working and have managed to become one of the important financial
instruments today. This study has examined in detail the techniques (Chaos theory, Onchain analysis and
Sentiment analysis) developed on the price predictions of crypto assets, which are very important in terms
of the number and quality of investors. In the study, findings were obtained that new techniques such as
onchain and sentiment are more prominent in estimating crypto asset prices compared to traditional asset
price estimation methods of crypto assets and that these techniques can make consistent estimations.
KEYWORDS
Blockchain
Cryptocurrency
Chaos theory
Onchain analysis
Sentiment analy-
sis
INTRODUCTION
Blockchain is a revolutionary technology that allows transactions
to be conducted without the need for intermediaries in peer-to-
peer transfer. First mentioned in Satoshi Nakamoto’s (2008) article
"Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System", this system has
the ability to perform financial/non-financial transactions on a
decentralized infrastructure. The basic premise of the system initi-
ated from Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta’s idea of presenting
digital documents with a time stamp, which prevents these docu-
ments from being changed, while allowing for a computationally
useful solution (AJ and Vanstone 1990). It has become known for
its structure that can reliably organize different processes without
a systems tool and without the need for a central authority, as well
as through Bitcoin, a cryptocurrency that has affected the whole
world. The production of Bitcoin started with the creation of the
Manuscript received: 4 November 2022,
Revised: 27 November 2022,
Accepted: 29 November 2022.
1 akifakgul@hitit.edu.tr
2 eyupensarisahin@hitit.edu.tr (Corresponding Author)
3 fatmayildizsenol@gmail.com
first block and currently has reached a weight that can be consid-
ered important in the portfolio of investors with its alternatives
approaching 18000.
Cryptocurrencies are new currencies and are also among the
popular investment tools. There are many questions about this
type of money, which is newly included in the financial system,
as they are decentralized and are separated from the conventional
monetary system by their nature. Since cryptocurrencies are freely
shaped according to supply and demand in the market, one of
the most curious subjects in literature has been their value; what
will they be and how they will be shaped. There are many studies
and methods for determining the future price of a security in
traditional financial markets. However after a brief introduction
to the research topic in the first part, the second part includes a
literature review, followed by a basic and technical analysis, the
studies on chaos theory, onchain analysis, and sentiment analysis.
Hacinliyan and Kandiran (2015) investigated the possible frac-
tal behaviors in the Istanbul Stock Exchange indices within the
scope of chaos theory. To observe whether there were any chaotic
and fractal behaviors, Higuchi and Katz methods were used to
analyze the monofractal behavior of the selected indices while the
Transformed Width (R/S) and Adjusted Fluctuation (DFA) ana-
CHAOS Theory and Applications 157
CHAOS
Theory and Applications
in Applied Sciences and Engineering
e-ISSN: 2687-4539
RESEARCH ARTICLE
Vol.4 / No.3 / 2022 / pp.157-168
https:/ /doi .org/10.51537/chaos.1199241
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9151-3052
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2110-7571
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3013-5136
lyzes were used to examine the chaotic behavior. As a result, it was
concluded that there is chaotic behavior in the relevant indices.
Alpar and Özge (2016) used the data between 1988-2004 in
order to prove the existence of chaos theory in the stock market.
Using the Lyapunov exponential model, the result was found to
be 18. The time series analysis showed that the stock market
is chaotic the direction of price movements can be predicted as
the 2 days before and 4 days after repeated each other. Biswas
et al. (2018) has defined the chaos theory for the sciences and gave
information about the detection and management of chaos for the
related sciences. In these areas, the boundaries of chaos theory
were drawn and relevant literature studies were included.
Abraham et al. (2018) collected Twitter and Google trend data to
analyse the Etherum and Bitcoin price changes. Sentiment analysis
of VADER (Valence Aware Dictionary For Sentiment Reasoning)
was used to analyze the collected data. This method was chosen
in the study because VADER analysis provided several benefits,
including not only classifying text as positive, negative, or neutral,
but also measuring the density of words used. The sentiment of
tweets was not included as it was said not to be a reliable indicator
when crypto currency prices were falling. Tweet volume was taken
into account. Both Google Trends and tweet volumes were found
to be highly correlated with price. In addition, the correlation held
during periods of increasing and decreasing prices shows that the
relationship is robust against periods with high variance and non-
linearity. Direct one-to-one comparisons were made using a linear
model, as the input variables followed the same nonlinear trends
as the response. As a result, it was shown that it is partly due
to work done at a time when cryptocurrency prices were always
rising. Additionally, Twitter sentiment regarding cryptocurren-
cies tended to be positive regardless of the future price changes.
A positive correlation was also observed by the author between
Google searches and the value of cryptocurrencies, and the price
changes in the relevant cryptocurrencies were followed, and it was
concluded that it was indeed compatible with the model created.
In order to comprehend the temporal link between variables,
Cortez et al. (2018) concentrated on the pricing of mineral commodi-
ties and used econometric techniques, machine learning, and chaos
theory-based techniques. They concluded that while Gaussian and
stochastic algorithms did not perform well enough, chaotic be-
havior may be seen when using machine learning techniques and
methodologies based on chaos theory.
The study by Lahmiri and Bekiros (2018) focused on multiple
fractalism and chaos theory in the Bitcoin market, where they in-
vestigated whether the prices followed the random law repetitively
between the years 2010-2017. The Lyapunov exponent, Shannon
entropy and generalized Hurst exponent models were applied and
chaos, randomness and multi fractal stylized features of price and
returns in the Bitcoin market were examined. As a result of the
study, it was concluded that, contrary to returns, prices included
and exhibited chaotic dynamics, but the prices did not repeat in
a predictable way. It focused on three digital currencies namely
Bitcoin, Digital Cash and Ripple. The analysis showed that all
three tools have fractal dynamics, long memory and self-similarity.
By trying to predict Bitcoin and Litecoin prices two hours in
advance, based on the sentiment expressed in the current Tweets,
Jain et al. (2018) aimed to explore whether social factors can predict
of cryptocurrency prices. Therefore, they used the Multiple Linear
Regression (MLR) model to estimate a two-hour average price from
the number of positive, neutral, and negative Tweets accumulated
every two hours between March 1-11, 2018.
Bouri et al. (2019) examined the effect of herd behavior in the
cryptocurrency market. As a result, strong evidence was found to
support the existence of herd behavior in this market. The results
of the logistic regression analysis, showed that the increase in
uncertainty, the herd tendency also provides evidence for this.
To understand the relationship between Bitcoin and Etherum
news and the price prediction, Vo et al. (2019) conducted an analysis
based on the assumption that there is a relationship between the
mood of the public and the cryptocurrency market, like traditional
financial markets. Data were obtained using daily time series data
from July 30, 2017 to October 5, 2018. For the sensitivity analysis,
the news of the last 7 days were collected. An algorithm was
created with a dictionary-based approach, with the thought of
distinguishing the effect of the news about cryptocurrencies on the
price movement, and with the thought that it can provide investors
with a buying and selling advantage. They created a model that
can directly predict the price direction by specifying whether to
buy, sell or hold, and they concluded that the model they created
correctly predicts the price movement in two cryptocurrencies.
Holiachenko et al. (2022) aimed to explain cryptocurrencies
using fundamental and technical analysis. A technical analysis
method was developed with different currencies in the same stock
market in order to achieve maximum gain. In the conclusion part of
the study, where many scenarios and graphics related to arbitrage
were created, it was stated that the developed methodwas resistant
to fluctuations in oil and gold prices.
Hudson and Urquhart (2021) conducted atechnical analysis
of Bitcoin, Ethereum, Bitstamp and Litecoin in their study and
although predictability continues in other cryptocurrency markets,
it has been concluded that there is no predictability for Bitcoin in
the out-of-sample period.
In order to test the validity of the efficient market hypothesis in
the crypto money market, Kang et al. (2019) investigated the ran-
dom walk theory. They concluded that among crypto exchanges
established before November 2017, large exchanges are more likely
to satisfy weak and semi-strong forms of market efficiency.
Pietrych et al. (2021) investigated the existence of chaos the-
ory in cryptocurrencies. The nonlinearity and chaos in cryptocur-
rencies (Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple and Litecoin) were tested and
concluded that these time series show strong evidence support-
ing the hypothesis that these time series come from an unknown
production process that behaves nonlinearly and chaotically.
The effect of crypto money on the economy was analyzed by
Yue et al. (2021) using a bibliometric analysis. Literature studies
related to the subject were extensively covered. Bibliometric anal-
ysis aims to reveal previously unknown patterns by collecting a
large number of relevant information in a specific area or a specific
area of the subject. In this context, starting from the keywords in
the literature, using the CiteSpace 5.7. the research outline of the
economic effects of the study was created. Data obtained from the
literature studies were clustered according to events that could
affect the value of Bitcoin and its effects on the economy, and made
available for analysis. the results obtained for direct economic
effects are as follows:
1) While the impact of speculative trading on cryptocurrency
differs in different studies, bitcoin price fluctuations will affect
macroeconomic policy to some extent.
2) The hedging and safe-haven characteristics of cryptocurren-
cies continue to change over different periods of research. Some
research finds that Bitcoin can act as a speculative asset.
3) External events such as the Covid pandemic can increase
price fluctuations and improve the hedge effectiveness of cryp-
158 | Akgul et al. CHAOS Theory and Applications
tocurrencies.
Another valuable result of the study is as follows: While com-
puter science literature and interdisciplinary fields are concerned
with the economic phenomenon caused by technologies, it has
been concluded that previous researches are more concerned with
economic results in economic fields.
Gözde (2021) examined sentiment analysis of Tweets posted as
“Bitcoin” on Twitter. Orange Data Mining program was used for
this. As a result; It has been observed that there is a predominant
sense of joy about Bitcoin and investors feel happy when they buy
Bitcoin.
Gurrib and Kamalov (2021) tried fluctuations in the crypto
money market to be predicted by using sentiment analysis. It was
determined that tweets about crypto money in a 3-week period
were directly related to the market value of coins, and the model
used in this study was determined to be critical. It is emphasized
that it is a good model for predicting the value of pto money.
Jagannath et al. (2021) conducted an onchain analysis study
in order not to predict Ethereum prices. It was chosen because
it is Etherum, which is the most popular currency after Bitcoin,
and because it uses an open network structure. In this paper,
data has been collected from the public Ethereum blockchain and
application programming interfaces (APIs) of online resources.
In this study, the linear effect of each important Ethereum on-
chain metric on price is examined using Pearson’s and Spearman
correlation coefficients. In addition, there is a model study for
calculating the estimated price using machine learning models.
The author’s working comment on the result obtained is: An
LSTM model was developed that uses three different self-adaptive
methods to determine the best hyperparameter values to predict
Ethereum price. Each self-adaptive technique was compared with
each other and with a traditional LSTM model. In contrast, self-
adaptive algorithm-based LSTM models provide a faster and more
accurate price prediction for Ethereum.
Gu et al. (2022) tried to detect abnormal transaction amount in
cryptocurrency exchanges with On-Chain analysis. In order to
obtain the most important factors affecting the trading volume of
different exchanges, a correlation analysis was performed and a
model was developed to predict the effect of various factors on the
trading volume. A case study of the detection results revealed that
some abnormal transaction amounts were related to policy changes
and industry events, while others were legal. He calculated the
deviation between the estimated transaction amount and the actual
transaction amount based on deep learning to provide a basis for
the abnormal transaction amount detection.
El Montasser et al. (2022) calculated the closing prices of differ-
ent cryptocurrencies in his study. The results of the authors who
made balloon studies in terms of market size were interpreted by
comparing them with the Covid 19 period. As a result of the study,
a high correlation was found between the Covid 19 period and the
crypto market. This indicates that the market activity behavior of
major traded cryptocurrencies has changed strongly following the
COVID-19 pandemic announcement.
We examine the efficiency of cryptocurrency markets by ex-
ploring how cryptocurrency bubbles and the COVID-19 pandemic
affect market efficiency that changes over time. Our results show
that the market activity behavior of major traded cryptocurren-
cies has changed strongly following the COVID-19 pandemic an-
nouncement. However, the results identified three cryptocurrency
bubbles; End of 2017, beginning of 2018 and throughout July 2020.
It is concluded that these decentralized finance bubbles have a
lower impact on cryptocurrency market efficiency. The purpose of
the study is mainly the effectiveness of cryptocurrencies and the
existence of price bubbles.
Nie (2022) used a network method to identify critical events
in the correlation dynamics of cryptocurrencies, taking networks
around January 6, 2021 as an example to illustrate local and drastic
changes in the correlation structure, helping to analyze the dy-
namics of the emerging market, the correlation structure in the
cryptocurrency market. analyze its stability and fragility. The basic
analysis in the network method used is: Using the influence power
of the relevant cryptocurrency network (IS). The empirical anal-
ysis concluded that the market index showed large fluctuations
near the critical event and that there was a correlation between the
dynamics of the correlation matrix and the market conditions. In
addition, he found a synchronization between changes in correla-
tion and changes in network structure, and a positive correlation
is observed
Wasiuzzaman et al. (2022) examined the performance of Islamic
gold-backed cryptocurrencies during the 2020 bear market. Price
data was collected for three Islamic gold-backed cryptocurrencies,
OneGram, HelloGold and X8X, and traditional gold-backed cryp-
tocurrency PaxGold. Bitcoin, the traditional fiat-backed cryptocur-
rency from December 2019 to November 2020. Analysis through
ARMA-EGARCH models shows that returns for all cryptocurren-
cies were lower during the bear market, but only with the Islamic
gold-backed cryptocurrency. It was concluded that volatility is
higher for all five cryptocurrencies, but the impact of the bear mar-
ket on volatility is significant only for traditional cryptocurrencies.
BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY
Blockchain is the infrastructure technology that forms the basis of
the relevant subject for the trading of cryptocurrencies and the exe-
cution of smart contracts. This system, which was first mentioned
in Satoshi Nakamoto’s article named "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Elec-
tronic Cash System", has found a wide application area not only in
cryptocurrencies, but also in the traditional financial system, allow-
ing new application areas to be opened. Since Blockchain is known
for Bitcoin, negative attitudes towards Bitcoin were initially consid-
ered within the Blockchain, but over time, this technology brought
by Bitcoin began to receive the attention it deserved. However,
the emergence of Blockchain dates back to the early 1990s, when
Stuart Haber and W. Scott Stornetta first applied cryptographic
techniques as an alternative way of storing digital documents and
protecting against cyber attack. Blockchain brought; transparency,
decentralization, verifiable and strong structure and started to be
the center of attention and multifaceted academic reviews were
realized. After examining its definition, functions and potential
in general terms, the following definition emerged: Blockchain
Technology not only processes monetary transactions, but can
also enable transactions to comply with programmable rules in
the form of "smart contracts" (Tschorsch and Scheuermann 2016).
Thus, the ability of the parties to carry out their transactions freely
without any trust problems played a leading role in the interest in
digital systems.
Although blockchain is anonymous, decentralized, what makes
it unique is that it cannot be hacked. Data is stored in a network on
the blockchain. Computers working connected to a network called
miner, bring together the processed data, archive it in accordance
with encryption standards, and turn it into blocks. Transactions
turn into a Hash algorithm as a summary function, and either a
thousand-page text or a one-line 64-character cryptography infor-
mation is encrypted with the encryption system for the relevant
network (for example, Hash-256 in Bitcoin). That is, as input, the
CHAOS Theory and Applications 159
desired length of file data and etc. are. entered, but its output is
called Hash or Digital Digest The information about the network
participants, called “Node” is verified and added to the network.
Since each node is connected with the previous node, a change
made in the related node causes a change in all other nodes. Since
the core of the system is based on a decentralized and interme-
diary system, a ledger is required, for example for crypto money
transfer or trading registration. In this system, the name of this
notebook is “Ledger”, which is responsible for keeping the nec-
essary records transparently. It acts as an exceptionally secure
intermediary between the sender and the receiver. Thanks to the
e-signature, it assumes the function of confirming the amount
sent by the sender to the recipient. In the digital world, trans-
fer and registration transactions are more reliable thanks to this
technology, compared to the type of fraud and insecurity, such as
forged signature etc in real life. It is a database that is included
and synchronized in the decentralized network (Sarmah 2018).
Some of the areas where Blockchain is used are: Finance, Health,
Logistics, Creation and storage of valuable documents and official
documents, E-commerce, Tokens and cryptocurrencies, Insurance,
Supply Chain. While many fields such as Games, Media, Real
Estate and art collecting use it, research shows that Blockchain is
used in the production and industry sector applications.
Figure 1 Blockchain usage area (Sarmah 2018)
Considering that the idea of decentralized digital money has
just emerged with all this technology, when viewed chronologi-
cally, many steps are encountered in the way of creating digital
money and the use of blockchain. In the first place, studies were
made mostly on encryption and privacy, and with these encryption
techniques that developed over time, the financial system and cur-
rency continued to develop with cryptographic and digitalization.
The information obtained from the studies carried out are listed
chronologically as follows:
In 1976, Diffie and Hellman published a paper and presented
a method based on a secure exchange in an environment where
there is no sense of trust by using private keys and cryptographic
encryption techniques (Diffie and Hellman 2022).
An algorithm called RSA was proposed by Shamir, Rivest and
Adleman in 1977. In this way, the RSA algorithm was devel-
oped in accordance with asymmetric encryption algorithms and
e-signature, and authentication processes were developed. A sys-
tem was developed to be used in secure key sharing operations
(Yerlikaya 2006).
In 1980-1990, David Chaum developed a cryptographic encryp-
tion. In fact, there is quite a lot of work in this field. Although
he first worked on encryption, the encryption system was not in
demand because it was not sufficient in terms of mutual trust and
confidentiality. He has also developed E-Cash, that is, electronic
payment systems, and made innovations such as saving money or
investing in the digital environment through the bank.
In 1995, DigiCash company created the first digital currency
with e-Cash. In 1996, it introduced e-gold into the system. This
system has received a lot of attention, because it allowed system
users to open a gold account and then be able transfer this gold
(Simsek et al. 2020). Then, he laid the foundations of the idea
of creating an institution that can make money payments with-
out an intermediary institution, called B-Money. Chaum, who
is considered the inventor of digital money. It is known for his
contribution to the system on privacy and cryptography. It was
the first known proposal of a blockchain protocol. Dr. Chaum
continued to develop the first digital currency, eCash, and made
numerous contributions to secure voting systems in the 1990s. To-
day, Dr. Chaum Co-founded Elixxir and Praxxis networks, which
combines decades of research and contributions in cryptography
and privacy to deliver cutting-edge blockchain solutions.
• In 1999, the Napster program, which allows online and peer-
to-peer file sharing, took its place on the market.
• In 2003, the Second Life game became one of the first stages
of the transition to virtual currency and digital economy.
• In 2008, Satoshi Nakomato made a creative destruction in
this process with his article describing the blockchain-based
crypto currency that include all these systems announcing the
creation of a decentralized and anonymous crypto currency
without the need for a financial intermediary security-based
transparent system has been outlined (Nakamoto 2008).
There is no government or banks in the system. A peer-to-peer
transfer system has been created in a 24/7 open digital environ-
ment. Cryptocurrencies are created with a value whose rate is
determined according to the supply and demand in the current
system. The Prof of Work(POW) cryptography at the base of the
system has solved two basic problems:
1) Problem with keeping records among network participants,
2) Resistance to cyber attack.
Before the emergence of Bitcoin, the function of transferring and
preserving money could not be imagined without an intermediary
institution, but after the emergence of Bitcoin, it was an important
step to overcome the intermediary institution costs or transaction
costs that were most criticized in the current financial system.
In this process starting from 2008, many different cryptocur-
rencies have emerged. There are cryptocurrencies, called Altcoin
(Alternative Coin), that have the same production method as Bit-
coin and exist on a completely different Blockchain network. These
cryptocurrencies, whose number is about 2700, are based on smart
contracts due to their organizational structure, and also include
many corporate companies in its ecosystem (Şahin 2020). Although
the system was created in 2008, it started to attract attention after
2015. At first it consisted of a crypto money given to the miners
who contributed to the functioning of the system. Miners perform
the most important task of the Blockchain system, for example,
they approve the transfer process in a transfer transaction. The
operations performed by the miners, who perform tasks such as
adding a new Bitcoin to the system, solving the double-spending
problem and posting unconfirmed Bitcoins, are as follows:
160 | Akgul et al. CHAOS Theory and Applications
1) Announcing a new transaction to the entire network,
2) Collecting the node transaction to the relevant block,
3) Issuing a new block after each transaction,
4) Confirming the transactions made.
With each completed task, a new Bitcoin or cryptocurrency ap-
pears. According to the data of CoinMarketCap for 2022, there are
over 12,954 cryptocurrencies, mainly Bitcoin, Ethereum, XRP, and
Bitcoin Cash. According to literature, the ten most popular cryp-
tocurrencies are Bitcoin, in particular, Etherum, Tether, Biancecoin,
USDC, Binancecoin, USD, XRP, Cardano, Solana, Dogecoin.
Bitcoin is the most known and most invested in the world
of crypto money. However, there are also Altcoins in the crypto
money ecosystem. Altcoins were created right after Bitcoin became
popular and its formation is clear. Altcoins that can be converted
as alternative coins are essentially the name given to cryptocurren-
cies other than Bitcoin. The first Altcoin created was “Namecoin”.
The emergence of altcoins is used to eliminate the problems expe-
rienced during the formation of Bitcoin, for example, there is an
intense energy consumption during the mining phase for the for-
mation of Bitcoin and it is time-consuming. On the other hand, the
"Proof of stake" system is used instead of the POW system. This
system provides comparative advantage and speed. Although
technically crypto investors often refer to low-value cryptocurren-
cies as Altcoins, which are easy to use and turn into cash faster,
they are relatively more affordable than Bitcoin in mining equip-
ment. The disadvantage is that they are very open to speculation.
The most popular altcoins are Ethereum, XRP, Tether, Cardano,
Polkadot, Stellar, Dogecoin, Chainlink, Uniswap.
METHODS USED FOR PRICE PREDICTION OF CRYPTO
ASSETS
Fundamental-Technical Analysis
The analysis that investors basically use in their financial invest-
ments is fundamental and technical analysis. While fundamental
analysis considers the macroeconomic trend, technical analysis is
an analysis that helps predict future price movements of financial
assets based on past price movements. The most widely used
type of analysis is technical analysis, but whether it is possible to
repeat past price movements in the future is a controversial issue.
Both types of analysis contradict the Efficient Markets Hypothesis
(EPH). The reason for this is the principle that no investor gets
abnormal returns since all information is reflected in the prices
(Malkiel 2003). With technical analysis, based on past price move-
ments, current prices do not reflect the market.
Fundamental Analysis Various macroeconomic factors are brought
together to try to predict the price of the security. The main goal is
that the investor’s security is overvalued? Is it low value? to seek
answers to questions such as Fundamental analysis is examined
in 3 groups as firm, sector and economic analysis. In economic
analysis, the investor makes a general assessment of the current
macroeconomic situation, examines the profitability of the firm
during the expansion or contraction periods in the cyclical fluc-
tuation of the economy and tries to predict the direction of the
movement of the stock price. After the economic analysis, issues
such as sector analysis, the competitive situation of the relevant
company in the sector, how much the firm’s sector will/will be
affected during economic contraction and expansion periods are
taken into consideration. After the economic and sector analysis,
a firm analysis is made and the return of the stock of the relevant
firm is calculated and expected.
The application of this analysis to the cryptocurrency market is
to decide whether the price of an asset is higher or lower than its
value, depending on how the intrinsic value of the asset is viewed.
Fundamental analysis is done by looking at more objective indi-
cators of the estimated value of the relevant crypto-asset, such as
the usage density of the network, the activity status of the relevant
network, or the business model and the roadmap (Lyashenko et al.
2021). Generally, the news and comments about crypto money
are evaluated, and then if there are any, speculation or manipula-
tion movements are tried to be detected. All information about
the relevant crypto currency is tried to be collected. In order to
calculate the returns of alternative investment instruments, domes-
tic macroeconomic variables and investment instruments are also
followed. However, using social media for this analysis will not
generate correct results because of the possibility of fake accounts
and manipulation. Therefore, fundamental analysis of cryptocur-
rency looks at 3 metrics: on-chain metrics, project metrics, and
financial metrics.
To put it briefly:
• On-Chain Metrics, involves obtaining and looking at
blockchain data. The node for the desired network is run
and viewed by accessing the relevant information. However,
since it is a time-consuming method, websites designed for
this process are used for more practically. The network trans-
action count is also a good guide.
• Project Metric, where on-chain metrics relate to observable
blockchain data, it includes a qualitative approach that looks
at factors such as project metrics, team performance (if appli-
cable), whitepaper, and upcoming roadmap.
• Financial Metrics are concerned with the value of the crypto
asset in the relevant period, the price of which it was traded
before. Interests can be useful in fundamental analysis. How-
ever, other metrics that might fall into this category include
gathering information about the economics and incentives
of the crypto-asset protocol. The importance of fundamental
analysis in terms of cryptocurrencies helps us to determine the
suspected values correctly, or to put it more clearly, to conduct
a long-term value analysis for cryptocurrencies where there
is doubt about buying and selling, or if there is investment
hesitation.
Technical Analysis In technical analysis, the investor makes an
investment decision with the price and volume information of the
asset he wants to invest. Technical analysis defines it as the study
of any market that uses price and volume information solely to
predict future price movements and trends (Stevens 2002). The
most widely used analysis tool for technical analysis is charts.
Information is collected by using the graphics of the relevant fi-
nancial asset. Trends and support and resistance points are also
analyzed with the moving average method and various indicators.
It is tried to make predictions about the future based on the price
movements in the past. Dow theory forms the basis of technical
analysis. To summarize this theory, the market consists of a cycle
and all prices continue on a continuum. This event is like a tide
event.Technical analysis is extremely helpful when reading charts
in Cryptocurrencies. Some of these benefits are:
• A single graph reading gives information about an entire
process.
• Even just reading charts on trading volume and prices can
provide an understanding of the overall picture.
• It is tried to predict the direction of the market with the help
of technical analysis.
CHAOS Theory and Applications 161
• With Bitcoin technical analysis, the past and future of crypto
money are followed.In general, movements in crypto currency
exchanges occur downward, upward and horizontally.To sum-
marize the usefulness of technical analysis in terms of cryp-
tocurrencies, it helps about short-term price movements.
Chaos Theory
Chaos theory has been used in various branches of science to
describe order within disorder. Its application in the field of eco-
nomics was used by G.D.Cole while investigating the causes of
the crisis, as well as of the Great Depression of 1929, with the view
that nonlinear relations could be explained in the market under
certainty conditions.
The most important contribution to chaos theory was by Lorenz
during the preparation of the weather forecast report. Chaos theory
is a sub-title of nonlinear systems. In the 19th and 20th centuries,
it was called the ‘butterfly effect’ because the Lorenz Diagram is
shaped like a Butterfly that popularizes this theory.
Figure 2 Lorenz chaotic system (x-z)
With the use of chaos theory in the economic sense, studies on,
investor and decision-maker behaviors in stock markets and for-
eign exchange markets, foreign trade problems, crisis period cause-
effect relations, hyperinflation periods and banks are the areas
where nonlinear equations have also started. The financial appli-
cation of nonlinear equations is the result of knowledge economy
and some models have been developed within the scope of chaos
theory. These models are: Logistics equation, One-dimensional
discrete maps, High-order discrete maps, and continuous Time
Models (Tosun 2006).
Chaos theory is not an induction or a mathematical method.
In essence, it explains the tendency of the parts that make up the
whole to form that whole separately. The reason for the interest in
Chaos theory in economics stems from the fact that this theory can
also offer a new perspective on system control strategies, which
has some particularly interesting insights for economic policies
(Faggini and Parziale 2012).
Chaotic behavior is used in a wide variety of scientific disci-
plines, including astronomy, biology, chemistry, ecology, engineer-
ing, and physics. In economic models, the chaotic existence and
cause of the variable, which is tightly connected to the initial cause,
is tried to be determined tightly, but it may be difficult to distin-
guish between random economic shocks and internal fluctuations.
For this reason, some analyzes are made to investigate the compat-
ibility with Chaos theory: Correlation, Lyapunov Test, and BDS
Test (Klioutchnikov et al. 2017).
In order to investigate the chaos, randomness and multi-scale
temporal correlation structure for the crypto money market, it is
a suitable theory to measure the chaos in prices, the uncertainty
in the returns during the high price period, or the change in the
returns in the time period when the value decreases. However,
when performing a chaos analysis for an econometric series, the
basic question is if the fluctuation in the current variable from a
stochastic system or if it comes from a deterministic, i.e. chaotic
system. One of the most common approaches to answer these ques-
tion is time series analysis The basic techniques used to measure
chaotic systems in general are:
1) Lyapunov Exponent: It is the name given to the instruction
that a signal follows along the phase space. It is a measure of the
amount of separation between neighboring orbitals. It can measure
the stability and instability of the chaotic system (Lv et al. 2022).
2) Dimensions (Fractal Dimension): The trend from unidentified
disorder to identifiable order is proved with the help of fractal
curves. Fractal structures can provide important information about
the long-term and repetitive process of market behavior, since the
parts are completely similar (Ural and Demireli 2009).
3) Unpredictability: Chaos theory sees the world not as a pre-
dictable mechanism, but as an open and flexible system. argues
that we are never capable of reaching the initial conditions of nec-
essary certainty related to the functioning of the physical world
(Trigg and Yerci 1996).
4) Mixing and Feedback: The order formed in the chaos process
shows commitment in a very short time and this is a kind of
feedback.
5) Butterfly Effect (Dependence on Initial State): This concept
emerged with Lorenz, and when considered for economics, it can
be interpreted as that it is sensitive to the initial values for time
series and subtle changes will affect the final shape and state of the
whole structure (Su 2021).
The efficient market hypothesis, which is the most important
theory in financial terms, states that the fluctuations in prices fol-
low the normal distribution within the scope of the random walk
feature and that a fair or efficient price will be formed in the market.
However, in reality, the fluctuations in prices do not show a ran-
dom walk feature and do not follow the normal distribution. As
an explanation for this situation, the "Fractal Market Hypothesis"
was developed. It highlights that the fractal feature can be seen
in financial markets. Here, two important points are emphasized
that are not included in the efficient market hypothesis: market
liquidity and information (Erdoğan 2017).
Market liquidity consists of different opinions on the value of a
security based on the trading transactions of investors with each
other. In other words, one thinks that the value of the relevant
security will increase, while the other thinks that the value of the
related security will decrease. Because of the information they do
not provide to each other, one party can gain because they reach
the information before the other. The second factor, information, is
that different values are attributed to the available information in
different periods, since the periods in which the investors invest are
different. Therefore, prices may consist of a short-term technical
and long-term heuristic dimension. To express this differently,
there is randomness in the short term and global determinism in
the long term, which is related to the fractal dimension.
Fractalism has 3 basic dimensions: Power law, Self-similarity,
and fixed scale. An object is fractal if it is similar to its smaller
sized parts and is directly related to fractals. The fractal size of the
object indicates the degree of similarity to itself. Fractal models are
statistical and the standard deviation of the part is proportional
162 | Akgul et al. CHAOS Theory and Applications
to the standard deviation of the whole, giving meaningful results.
In addition to being statistical, it is similar to itself, that is, to be
expressed mathematically as the similarity seen in printing an
image vertically and horizontally.
In the literature, Chaos theory is generally applied for time
series to show whether the time series move randomly. Instead of
"Efficient Market Hypothesis" and "Random Walk Model", which
are basically the bedside theories of finance science, "chaos theo-
rem" has begun to be accepted. Because with globalization, fluctu-
ations in financial markets have started to be seen much more. In
financial markets, the chaos theorem is against the efficient market
hypothesis, and each investor and system has taken on a very
chaotic structure. As can be seen in the studies in the literature
review section, chaotic behaviors have been observed in the crypto
money market, especially after 2010.
Onchain Analysis
Onchain analysis is the study of data stored in a blockchain net-
work. In essence, it can be called a blockchain analysis. It is
possible to see the entire data as all transactions are recorded on
the Blockchain and cannot be changed. In this way, the thoughts
and investment direction of all system users can be predicted. To a
bitcoin Merchant, it gives another idea of where the price might go
depending on the transaction patterns, the type of Bitcoin owner
making the transaction, and where the coins might move. This
analysis is similar to technical analysis but is more fundamen-
tal. The data used to make the relevant analysis can be broadly
classified into three different categories:
1) Transaction Data (sending and receiving address, amount
transferred, remaining value for a given address),
2) Block Data (time stamps, miner fees, rewards),
3) Smart contract code (i.e. business logic encoded on a
blockchain).
Figure 3 Onchain analysis indicators
Looking at its history, it dates back to 2011. By comparing the
value of the network with the transaction volume recorded on
the blockchain, it is possible to determine when a cryptocurrency
is overvalued. For this, various ratios and indicators have been
developed. In this way, market sentiment analysis is made, and
the amount of traded /untraded crypto money or token can be de-
termined because whales (people or organizations who own large
amounts of crypto currency) sometimes pose a great danger for
the crypto money world. Popularized by CoinMetrics, Chris Bur-
niske and Jack Tatar developed the Network Value-to-Transaction
(NVT) ratio in the summer of 2017 to measure the utility value of a
cryptocurrency, specifically its transactional utility. It was one of
the commonly used measures for cryptocurrencies. According to
the NTV ratio if the network value is high, the NTV ratio decreases.
Conversely, as the value of the network decreases, the NTV ratio
increases. The explanation for this is that, if the network value
is extremely low, it may indicate that a more substantial price is
warranted given the trading volume.
The so-called UTXO (unspent transaction outputs) is a very
important concept. It represents the amount of crypto money left
over from each transaction. By using this, it is possible to see how
long these funds are kept in the wallet. Based on the UTXO data,
HODL waves are drawn. Using UTXO, the amount of unused
crypto money in the wallets are determined and for how long they
are kept.
Holder with an increasing number of investments means that
the circulating supply is lower, that is, they do not decrease the sale
and the circulating supply can said to be less. This indicator also
reflects the investor psychology, allowing us to observe whether
people want to sell coins or not. For example, considering investors
who have started to sell the coins they have kept in their wallets
for more than 1 year, Holder decreases, which means that the
investor is selling his crypto asset because they are making a profit.
With this indicator, investments can be made by looking at the
buying/selling times. Warm colors, such as red, orange, yellow,
represent Bitcoin that has been used within 1 year, while cold
colors represent Bitcoin that has not been used for more than 1
year.
Another indicator used in onchain analysis is MVRV Z-SCORE.
This indicator shows the period when Bitcoin is overvalued and
undervalued. Certain values in the past are taken into account and
the formula is as follows:
MVRVZ − Score :
MarketCapUSD − RealizedCapUSD
StdDev (orMarketCapUSD)
(1)
The MVRV Z-score is a function obtained by dividing the dif-
ference between the total market value and the realized market
value by the standard deviation of the market value. This shows
how many standard deviations the market value differs from the
realized value. Market value indicates a peak if it is significantly
higher than realized value, but a bottom vice versa. In other words,
it shows whether the realized value with the market value is over
or undervalued than the Bitcoin price. The ultimate goal is 7. The
probability of a Balloon asset above 7 is high.
The Z-Score is a number used to measure the relationship of a
value with the group average of that value. It is measured with a
standard deviation, and for example, Z-Score 0 means the value is
the same as the group mean, and if the Z-Score is 1, that value is 1
standard deviation from the group mean. It is more important in
determining extraordinary movements. If the Z-Score -Red Line-
enters the pink box, it means that there is an excessive increase
beyond the true value. The probability of the price falling increases.
CHAOS Theory and Applications 163
Figure 4 HODL Wave Graph (Lookintobitcoin 2022 (accessed November 7, 2022)
Figure 5 MVRV Z-Score (Lookintobitcoin 2022 (accessed November 7, 2022)
164 | Akgul et al. CHAOS Theory and Applications
Another indicator is NUPL. NUPL is derived from both the
market value and realizable value. Market Cap is the current price
of Bitcoin multiplied by the number of coins in circulation. Actual
Value is the price of Bitcoin at the time it was last transferred,
that is, the last time it was transferred from one wallet to another.
All these individual prices are then summed up and averaged,
then multiplie with the total number of coins in circulation. It is
the difference between the market value and the realized value.
Formula NUPL value it is:
NUPL=
MarketCap − RealizedCap
MarketCap
(2)
Net Unrealized Profit/Loss (NUPL) can use market participant
data to help predict when Bitcoin price hits highs or lows. It is a
convenient tool to show potential market participant sentiment at
a given moment, which can be useful for predicting the Bitcoin
price and where it may move over time. How this tool should be
interpreted in its graph is shown in the Fig 6.
Figure 6 NUPL Graph (Lookintobitcoin 2022 (accessed Novem-
ber 7, 2022)
To generate this indicator, the difference between unrealized
losses and unrealized gains is calculated, so that when it acquires a
value greater than zero it indicates that at that moment the network
is in profit, while values less than zero indicate a state of loss. The
indicator is shown on a graph as a curve that oscillates between
positive and negative values, and in general, the further the NUPL
curve moves away from zero, the closer the prices are to the market
highs or lows.
Puell Multiple metric focuses on the revenue of bitcoin miners.
In this environment where prices are volatile, miners can affect
prices in order to meet fixed costs. The daily issuance value of
Bitcoins is calculated by averaging the 365-day issuance value.
If the values are higher than the annual average it indicate the
current miner profitability. Low values indicate that current miner
profitability is lower than the annual average.
The Mayer Multiple shows the time period when it is overval-
ued and undervalued above the 200-day moving average. If this
value falls below 1, it is a buying opportunity. In the short term,
this value is desired to exceed 1. Falling below 1 is not a good
indicator for the investor. It is calculated using the formula:
MayerMultiple=
BTCUSD
MA200(BTCUSD)
(3)
Reserve Risk is a cyclical indicator that monitors the risk-reward
balance based on the confidence and belief of long-term holders.
It is an indicator that models the ratio between the current price
(sell incentive) and long-term investors’ opinion (opportunity cost
of not selling). This indicator is compatible with bull and bear
markets. If confidence is high and the price is low, the Reserve
Risk is low, making it attractive to invest. If the confidence is low,
the reserve risk is high, and this may mean a price peak. In other
words, low reserve risk can mean low value and high reserve risk
can mean overvaluation.
There are some free websites that provide on-chain analysis
for cryptocurrencies : Glassnode offers simple on-chain metrics at
zero cost, plus advanced metrics and high-frequency time series
data for a fee. CoinMetrics offers free data for around 37 crypto
assets. This includes on-chain metrics and correlations.
IntoTheBlock is also a platform that provides a wide range of
analytical tools. It covers sentiment analysis, order book data, and
on-chain analysis for various crypto assets.
Other sites include Santiment/Sanbase and CQ.Live. There
can be various difficulties in performing Onchain analysis. Not
all blockchains are evenly distributed. For example, the Bitcoin
network has the motivation to make digital money, while the
Etherum network has a wider range of services. Measurements
may differ due to inequality in the blockchain. When comparing
Bitcoin to other new Altcoins, Bitcoin has more than ten years of
data to support historical analysis, while new altcoins have less
data, as well as longer term analysis. It may not give the right
buy-sell signal in the short term.
Sentiment Analysis
It is the formation of thoughts on the subject through the evaluation
of the feelings and thoughts of a community. The idea is to obtain
efficient and usable findings from these evaluations. Its other name
is “Idea mining”. Sentiment Analysis is used in many fields such as
finance, medicine, stockbroking, media, politics. It is a widely used
technique in product reviews to measure a consumers satisfaction
with a product. The data related to the subject in question can be
defined as positive, negative, or neutral. In terms of Sentiment
Analysis research levels are examined under three main headings;
document level, sentence level (sentence level) and view level
(aspect level).
Sentiment analysis at the document level: In this method, with-
out going into too much detail, the entire document is considered
as a single idea and classified according to whether it expresses
positive or negative emotions. However, this method cannot be
used in cases where there is more than one variable, since it gives
a single result.
Sentence Level Sentiment: After checking whether each sen-
tence is subjective or objective, if the sentence is subjective, clas-
sification is made according to whether the sentence expresses
positive or negative emotions (Medhat et al. 2014).
At The Level of View, Sentiment: Makes it possible to deal with
all aspects of existence. In the classifications at the document and
sentence levels, the comments do not have to be detailed, but at
this view level, the comments are detailed because it is aimed to
determine the direction of emotion regarding certain features of a
certain entity (Medhat et al. 2014).
Sentiment Analysis Methods are divided into 3 as Machine
Learning, Hybrid Model and Dictionary Based Approach.
CHAOS Theory and Applications 165
Figure 7 Types of sentiment analysis
Dictionary Based Approach Using natural language processing
method and the tools of this method, methods based on emotional
analysis of sentences are used. Here, sentences related to the
relevant subject are analyzed and it is desired to reach a conclusion
about these sentences. Three methods are used when applying this
method are:
a) Conditional Random Fields: Based on the words in the sen-
tence, the purpose of the chosen word is determined.
b) Dependency Tree: Elements are created in the sentence and
the dependencies of the created elements are investigated. A senti-
ment analysis is performed by analyzing the relationships between
the nodes in the created loyalty tree.
c) Rule Based Approach: Rules based on different natural lan-
guage processing features, especially word types and word type
patterns, are determined, and semantic inferences are made by
analyzing sentence structures that comply with these rules.
Hybrid Approach They are approaches in which machine learning
algorithms and dictionary-based approaches are used together.
Sentiment analysis in crypto money is generally related to social
media etc. about crypto money. It started to be implemented based
on the findings that opinions affect the value of crypto money.
If emotion is expressed in financial terms, they are an opinion
expressed about the state of a market. Crypto market sentiment
defines the general emotional views and attitudes of investors
towards the asset. In essence, Sentiment analysis for cryptocurren-
cies can yield several notable statistics that can be used to analyze
cryptocurrency market sentiment: funding rates, sentiment indices,
social media and community analytics, and tracking of cryptocur-
rency whales, trajectory and movements of crypto assets.
The basis of this analysis is based on Sentiment analysis meth-
ods. It can answer many questions for the investor who has in-
vested in the crypto money market for at least a year, such as coin
transactions. For example, if a coin, which is stated to have given
a "buy" order on social media, has been purchased and sufferes a
loss in the future, this victimization of the investor may affect the
view of the entire crypto money investment. Here, the concepts
of “FOMO” and “FUD” come to the fore. These concepts are from
everyday language, but are also used in literature to reflect the
psychological state of the user.
Fear of missing out (FOMO) is the fear of people of not knowing
or missing out on the news, developments and information in
daily life. It is the concern that a crypto-related opportunity will be
missed. Fud (fear, uncertainty and doubt) expresses the uneasiness
that there will be a loss which will decrease the prices in the market.
The emotions expressed here may belong to the individual or
the community. In the existing studies in the literature, for ex-
ample Husband 2021, a Sentiment Analysis study with Twitter
Data on Bitcoin was carried out. A predominant feeling of joy was
observed. Another study in the literature included the relation-
ship between news about Bitcoin and ether and price prediction.
Sentiment Analysis related to the relevant crypto money can be
made.
Machine Learning Approach Present data using mathematical and
statistical methods is a sub-branch of artificial intelligence con-
sisting of modeling and algorithms that make inferences from
the future and make predictions about the unknown with these
inferences. It is divided into three as supervised machine learn-
ing, unsupervised machine learning and semi-supervised machine
learning.
a) Supervised Machine Learning: The target values correspond-
ing to an existing group of input values are given, and it is aimed
to produce the outputs closest to the target values by learning the
dependency between the input and the target of the created model
(Ciftci and Apaydin 2018). We can use supervised machine learn-
ing to learn a model for the relationship between example: x and
y. It reason it is called supervised machine learning is because re-
quires human oversight. The majority of the data that is currently
available is unlabeled. For data to be adequately labeled and ready
for supervised learning, human input is typically necessary. Super-
vised learning is used in financial applications for credit scoring,
algorithmic trading, and bond classification. Supervised learning
problems can be further grouped into regression and classification
problems.
b) Semi-Supervised Machine Learning: Labeled and unlabeled
data are separated in order to form the appropriate model. If unla-
beled data is less, semi-supervised machine learning is preferred.
It is a relatively more flexible model.
c) Unsupervised Machine Learning: It finds similar samples
within the group and aims to model the underlying structure or
distribution in the data to learn more. It is desired to make a
meaning out of meaningless data. It is applied on raw data. It is
used quite often to determine the trends, likes, etc. of the datasets
we have.
The requirement for labeled training data distinguishes super-
vised learning from unsupervised learning. Unsupervised ma-
chine learning processes unlabeled or raw data, whereas super-
vised machine learning uses labelled input and output training
data. The Possibilistic Fuzzy C-Means (PFCM) and Fuzzy C-Means
(FCM) algorithms are frequently utilized techniques (Wang et al.
2020).
Deep learning techniques have been used recently in research
projects to forecast bitcoin prices. compared cutting-edge deep
neural networks for predicting Bitcoin price, including Long Short-
Term Memory (LSTM), Deep Neural Networks (DNNs), deep resid-
ual network, and their combinations.
Cryptocurrencies give very successful results in terms of price
prediction thanks to their own features. When the studies in the
literature are examined, successful results are obtained (Chen et al.
2020). There is consensus in the literature that machine learning
provides robust techniques for exploring the predictability of cryp-
tocurrencies even in adverse market conditions and developing
profitable trading strategies in these markets (Sebastião and God-
166 | Akgul et al. CHAOS Theory and Applications
inho 2021). The combination of these trust frameworks, which
hold the frontiers of machine-work analytics and blockchain, en-
ables smarter decisions, increased trust, more automation, and
decentralized intelligence.
As a result, a machine computer and blockchain duo sustain
the positive effects of the workload and its financial performance.
It creates a system for storing and sharing big data with the help
of smart contracts in blockchain networks. Machine learning is
the basis of system behaviors necessary to optimize blockchain
mechanisms. Trade forecasting is known for its great forecasting
capabilities and efficient data analysis methods. Also, ML mod-
els can be used to improve data validation procedures and detect
malicious attacks or fraudulent transactions on the blockchain.
Machine learning and blockchain build a mutually beneficial re-
lationship that is all about data. However, if you use machine
learning for blockchain management, you have a chance to gain
unprecedented data security. But at the same time, machine learn-
ing can take advantage of the decentralized nature of blockchain
to build better models and handle large volumes of data.
CONCLUSION
Cryptocurrency is a new unit that is used and there are many ques-
tions about it. One of these questions is what its value will be in
the future. When we look at the studies in the literature, the value
of this crypto money using onchain and sentiment analysis, which
are couple of the chaotic behaviors and new analysis types, as well
as fundamental and technical analyses. It is possible to monitor
the correct predictions and crypto money behavior. Sentiment
analysis is used in cryptocurrency forecasting, just as it is used in
traditional finance, and produces successful analyzes about the
investor’s thoughts about the relevant currency. When viewed
from the framework of chaotic behavior, it is highly dependent on
initial conditions because it is not centralized. In most startups,
this currency behaves chaotically and that small effects make big
changes.
Fundamental and technical analysis in the Crypto market refers
to the evaluation of the market environment and other important
factors that can affect the market trend. It includes the analysis of
numbers and statistics that can determine the price movements
and trading volume of digital assets. Investors identify past market
trends and price movements to determine whether digital assets
are worth investing in. It seems to be a commonly used method.
Technical analysts use a variety of indicators to identify market
trends based on charts and historical price movements. One of
the key premise of technical analysis is that market prices already
reflect all fundamental factors. However, unlike the approach of
technical analysis, which focuses heavily on historical price data,
fundamental analysis adopts a broader research strategy with a
greater emphasis on qualitative factors. For this reason, many
investors seem to use a combination of both methods to get the
most accurate insight.
Onchain analysis, on the other hand, needs to be able to look
at various metrics for the analysis of Bitcoin and other cryptocur-
rencies. Traders and investors often pair On-Chain analysis with
technical analysis to identify suitable short-term entry and exit
points for crypto assets. In other words, it is not based on specula-
tion, it will help to make more accurate short or long targeting by
making an interpretation as a result of these metrics and analyzes
that are shared regularly and consistently. It is mostly like techni-
cal analysis, but on-chain analysis is achieved by interpreting all
transactions that have taken place completely on the blockchain.
Just like in technical analysis, there are indicators used in on-chain
analysis. On-chain analysis gives us ideas about where we are now
and what may happen in the future. On-chain sentiment analysis
means the interpretation of crypto money transfers that take place
on-chain. These two new analyzes can contain the most reliable
price predictions as they reflect the nature of crypto money. In
short, on-chain analysis offers cryptographers a fascinating tool to
explore real-time insights into a blockchain network. This gives
them the opportunity to take advantage of a more abundant and
transparent data encryption market.
In this study, analysis methods and explanations of these meth-
ods are included in order to make price estimation. The wide
definition of sentiment analysis and onchain analysis, which are
two new types of analysis, makes the study valuable. Besides all
these, the discovery of the chaotic behavior of the decentralized
currency will help us understand the nature of cryptocurrencies.
Conflicts of interest
The authors declare that there is no conflict of interest regarding
the publication of this paper.
Availability of data and material
Not applicable.
LITERATURE CITED
Abraham, J., D. Higdon, J. Nelson, and J. Ibarra, 2018 Cryptocur-
rency price prediction using tweet volumes and sentiment anal-
ysis. SMU Data Science Review 1: 1.
AJ, H. S. S. W. M. and S. Vanstone, 1990 How to time-stamp a
digital document. In Advances in Cryptology-CRYPT0, volume
1991.
Alpar, O. and E. Özge, 2016 Imkb100 endeks değişim değerlerinde
lyapunov üsteli metoduyla kaosun incelenmesi. İstanbul Aydın
Üniversitesi Dergisi 8: 151–174.
Biswas, H. R., M. M. Hasan, and S. K. Bala, 2018 Chaos theory and
its applications in our real life. Barishal University Journal Part
1: 123–140.
Bouri, E., R. Gupta, and D. Roubaud, 2019 Herding behaviour in
cryptocurrencies. Finance Research Letters 29: 216–221.
Chen, Z., C. Li, and W. Sun, 2020 Bitcoin price prediction using
machine learning: An approach to sample dimension engineer-
ing. Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics 365:
112395.
Ciftci, B. and M. S. Apaydin, 2018 A deep learning approach to
sentiment analysis in turkish. In 2018 International Conference on
Artificial Intelligence and Data Processing (IDAP), pp. 1–5, IEEE.
Cortez, C. T., S. Saydam, J. Coulton, and C. Sammut, 2018 Al-
ternative techniques for forecasting mineral commodity prices.
International Journal of Mining Science and Technology 28: 309–
322.
Diffie, W. and M. E. Hellman, 2022 New directions in cryptography.
In Democratizing Cryptography: The Work of Whitfield Diffie and
Martin Hellman, pp. 365–390.
El Montasser, G., L. Charfeddine, and A. Benhamed, 2022 Covid-19,
cryptocurrencies bubbles and digital market efficiency: sensitiv-
ity and similarity analysis. Finance Research Letters 46: 102362.
Erdoğan, N. K., 2017 Finansal zaman serilerinin fraktal analizi.
Aksaray üniversitesi iktisadi ve idari bilimler fakültesi dergisi 9:
49–54.
Faggini, M. and A. Parziale, 2012 The failure of economic theory.
lessons from chaos theory .
CHAOS Theory and Applications 167
Gözde, K., 2021 Bitcoin üzerine twitter verileri ile duygu analizi.
Anadolu Üniversitesi İktisadi ve İdari Bilimler Fakültesi Dergisi
22: 19–30.
Gu, Z., D. Lin, and J. Wu, 2022 On-chain analysis-based detec-
tion of abnormal transaction amount on cryptocurrency ex-
changes. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications
604: 127799.
Gurrib, I. and F. Kamalov, 2021 Predicting bitcoin price movements
using sentiment analysis: a machine learning approach. Studies
in Economics and Finance .
Hacinliyan, A. and E. Kandiran, 2015 Türkiye’deki borsa endek-
slerinin fraktal analizi. AJIT-e: Bilişim Teknolojileri Online Der-
gisi 6: 7–19.
Holiachenko, A., L. Lyushenko, and O. Strutsynsky, 2022 Modified
method of cryptocurrency exchange rate forecasting based on
arima class models with data verification. In The International
Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Logistics Engineering, pp.
123–136, Springer.
Hudson, R. and A. Urquhart, 2021 Technical trading and cryptocur-
rencies. Annals of Operations Research 297: 191–220.
Jagannath, N., T. Barbulescu, K. M. Sallam, I. Elgendi, B. Mc-
Grath, et al., 2021 An on-chain analysis-based approach to pre-
dict ethereum prices. IEEE Access 9: 167972–167989.
Jain, A., S. Tripathi, H. D. Dwivedi, and P. Saxena, 2018 Forecasting
price of cryptocurrencies using tweets sentiment analysis. In
2018 eleventh international conference on contemporary computing
(IC3), pp. 1–7, IEEE.
Kang, K., E. Abdelfatah, and M. Pournik, 2019 Nanoparticles trans-
port in heterogeneous porous media using continuous time ran-
dom walk approach. Journal of Petroleum Science and Engineer-
ing 177: 544–557.
Klioutchnikov, I., M. Sigova, and N. Beizerov, 2017 Chaos theory
in finance. Procedia computer science 119: 368–375.
Lahmiri, S. and S. Bekiros, 2018 Chaos, randomness and multi-
fractality in bitcoin market. Chaos, solitons & fractals 106: 28–34.
Lookintobitcoin, 2022 (accessed November 7, 2022)a Hodl-wave.
https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/hodl-waves/.
Lookintobitcoin, 2022 (accessed November 7, 2022)b Mvrv z-score.
https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/mvrv-zscore/.
Lookintobitcoin, 2022 (accessed November 7, 2022)c
Nupl graph. https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/
relative-unrealized-profit--loss/.
Lv, Z., F. Sun, and C. Cai, 2022 A new spatiotemporal chaotic
system based on two-dimensional discrete system. Nonlinear
Dynamics 109: 3133–3144.
Lyashenko, V., M. Bril, and O. Shapran, 2021 Dynamics of world
indices as a reflection of the development world financial market
.
Malkiel, B. G., 2003 The efficient market hypothesis and its critics.
Journal of economic perspectives 17: 59–82.
Medhat, W., A. Hassan, and H. Korashy, 2014 Sentiment analysis
algorithms and applications: A survey. Ain Shams engineering
journal 5: 1093–1113.
Nakamoto, S., 2008 Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system.
Decentralized Business Review p. 21260.
Nie, C.-X., 2022 Analysis of critical events in the correlation dynam-
ics of cryptocurrency market. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics
and its Applications 586: 126462.
Pietrych, L., J. E. Sandubete, and L. Escot, 2021 Solving the chaos
model-data paradox in the cryptocurrency market. Communi-
cations in Nonlinear Science and Numerical Simulation 102:
105901.
Şahin, E. E., 2020 Kripto para fiyatlarında balon varlığının tespiti:
Bitcoin, iota ve ripple örneği. Selçuk Üniversitesi Sosyal Bilimler
Enstitüsü Dergisi pp. 62–69.
Sarmah, S. S., 2018 Understanding blockchain technology. Com-
puter Science and Engineering 8: 23–29.
Sebastião, H. and P. Godinho, 2021 Forecasting and trading cryp-
tocurrencies with machine learning under changing market con-
ditions. Financial Innovation 7: 1–30.
Simsek, M., M. Samar, A. Oweida, A. F. Hersh, A. Alkış, et al., 2020
Necmettin erbakan üniversitesi yayınları: 47 islami finans ve
finansal teknolojiler (fintech) blokzincir-akıllı sözleşmeler-kripto
paralar editörler .
Stevens, L., 2002 Essential technical analysis: tools and techniques to
spot market trends, volume 162. John Wiley & Sons.
Su, F., 2021 The chaos theory and its application. In Journal of
Physics: Conference Series, volume 2012, p. 012118, IOP Publish-
ing.
Tosun, T., 2006 Türev Araçlar, Kaos Teorisi ve Fraktal Yapıların Vadeli
İşlem Zaman Serilerinde Uygulanması. Ph.D. thesis, Marmara Uni-
versitesi (Turkey).
Trigg, R. and K. Yerci, 1996 Akılcılık ve bilim: bilim her şeyi açıklaya-
bilir mi?. Sarmal Yayınevi.
Tschorsch, F. and B. Scheuermann, 2016 Bitcoin and beyond: A
technical survey on decentralized digital currencies. IEEE Com-
munications Surveys & Tutorials 18: 2084–2123.
Ural, M. and E. Demireli, 2009 Hurst üstel katsayisi araciliğiyla
fraktal yapi analizi ve imkb’de bir uygulama. Atatürk üniver-
sitesi iktisadi ve idari bilimler dergisi 23: 243–255.
Vo, A.-D., Q.-P. Nguyen, and C.-Y. Ock, 2019 Sentiment analysis of
news for effective cryptocurrency price prediction. International
Journal of Knowledge Engineering 5: 47–52.
Wang, S., W. Chen, S. M. Xie, G. Azzari, and D. B. Lobell, 2020
Weakly supervised deep learning for segmentation of remote
sensing imagery. Remote Sensing 12: 207.
Wasiuzzaman, S., A. N. M. Azwan, and A. N. H. Nordin, 2022
Analysis of the performance of the islamic gold-backed cryp-
tocurrency during the bear market of 2020. Emerging Markets
Review p. 100920.
Yerlikaya, T., 2006 Yeni şifreleme algoritmalarının analizi. trakya
üniversitesi. Fen Bilimleri Enstitüsü, Bilgisayar Mühendisliği
Anabilim Dalı, Doktora Tezi .
Yue, Y., X. Li, D. Zhang, and S. Wang, 2021 How cryptocurrency
affects economy? a network analysis using bibliometric methods.
International Review of Financial Analysis 77: 101869.
How to cite this article: Akgul, A., Sahin, E. E., and Senol F. Y.
Blockchain-based Cryptocurrency Price Prediction with Chaos
Theory, Onchain Analysis, Sentiment Analysis and Fundamental-
Technical Analysis. Chaos Theory and Applications, 4(3), 157-168,
2022.
168 | Akgul et al. CHAOS Theory and Applications
https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/hodl-waves/
https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/mvrv-zscore/
https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/relative-unrealized-profit--loss/
https://www.lookintobitcoin.com/charts/relative-unrealized-profit--loss/