Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design, Blockchain Technology and Learning Analytics in Higher Education Institutions: A Case Study of the British University in Dubai
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design,
Blockchain Technology and Learning Analytics
in Higher Education Institutions: A Case Study
of the British University in Dubai
Khaled Al Shehhi(B) and Khalid Almarri
The British University in Dubai, Dubai, UAE
khaled.almarri@buid.ac.ae
Abstract. The LearningManagement System (LMS) tries to resolve the multiple
challenges that occur due to limits of time, location, and frequency of teacher-
student interactions. As a tool in the e- learning process, the LMS provides several
benefits that can help overcome problems that often occur during the learning
process.
However, the current deployment ofLMSas a learningmediumstill has its lim-
itations such as low engagement and motivation, secure documents, certification,
and exam verification to replace a cumbersome manual process, and ultimately
personalization of features that relevant to students’ requirements. Recently, some
new technologies developed as recent trends to tackle the various difficulties and
challenges relevant to these issues and obstacles. In this sense, the Gamifica-
tion design boosted users’ interaction and engagement with the online system by
adding a new game concept. Similarly, blockchain technology improves the secu-
rity of online document exchange, verification, and storage. Ultimately, learning
analytics demonstrated to allow the personalization of online platforms based on
interactions and data logs. In this work, we studied how combining these strategies
might boost the LMS performance and tackle existing issues and problems.
To do that, we employed a design science methodology as a rigor innovation
strategy in digital innovation. The results reveal encouraging results of the new
systems (LMSD) implementation in Dubai’s British university.
Keywords: LMS · e-learning · Gamification · Blockchain · Learning analytics ·
Innovation
1 Introduction
There is no one disputing that technology plays a big influence in transforming the
overall terrain in education. In this digital era, the use of online learning has expanded
substantially and become more widespread over the Covid-19 epidemic, displacing the
classroom (face to face environment) (face to face setting). Hence, educators should
provide students excellent teaching techniques that inspire them to appropriately engage
and learn important knowledge (Ulfa and Fatawi 2021;Mestan 2019). Numerous reports,
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
M. Themistocleous and M. Papadaki (Eds.): EMCIS 2021, LNBIP 437, pp. 180–193, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-95947-0_13
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-95947-0_13&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-95947-0_13
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 181
expert opinions, and scholarly findings demonstrate, however, that online learning in its
various forms and methods currently faces difficulties and obstacles related to trying to
incorporate versatility, encouraging engagement, assisting students with their learning
processes, and promoting an attitude-based learning environment (Bruggeman et al.
2019).
The United Arab Emirates’ Ministry of Education has acknowledged the critical
role of ICT in enhancing the teaching and learning process. Leading higher education
institutions in the UAE, such as the University of Fujairah and the British University
in Dubai, have begun integrating ICT into their educational systems through a blended
approach that incorporates different ICT resources into the learning process. Blackboard
andMoodle are two examples of successful learning management systems that optimize
the learning process (Salloum et al. 2018).
2 Practical Problem
The Like academic findings, the application of e-learning systems in their current forms
shows three major problems: low engagement of the students, security, integrity of
documents and exams, and systems adaptation to students’ needs and persona. Following
the design science approach and it is deployment in innovating process, product, and
service -as suggested by Hevner et al. (2019), the problem explicated in details as in
Table 1.
Table 1. Problem explication
Problem Explanation Current solutions
Low engagement of the
students
Students are now detached to
different degrees, ranging from
25% to more than half. The
classes and resources soon
bore them. One of the
established reasons is their
“engrossment in technology.”
Psychological Engagement
techniques, variety of video
and multimedia, and Forums
Security and integrity of
documents and exams
Academic transcripts are one
of the most time-consuming
and labor-intensive processes
in higher education. Each
entrance must be personally
verified consistently before a
certified transcript of a
student’s grades can be
published
Online exams and students’
identity is a cumbersome issue
in online learning
Manual verification of
documents and personal
assurance of exam process
integrity
(continued)
182 K. Al Shehhi and K. Almarri
Table 1. (continued)
Problem Explanation Current solutions
Systems adaptation to
students’ needs and persona
The students differ in their
requirements when interacting
with the online system.
Personalizing their profiles to
adapt the current system to
their actual needs is required
Collecting traditional data
regarding students (such as
gender, race, age) but does not
give the institution a real
understanding of who the
people are behind the numbers
3 Literature Review
3.1 E-Learning Systems
The debate on the definition and application of e-learning concentrates on the intersection
of education, teaching, and learning with ICT. It is unquestionably guided by two other
disciplines: education technology and distance learning. Both have made a significant
contribution to the intensified use of ICT for academic purposes, but none of it can be
exclusively compared to e-learning (Sangrà et al. 2012). We adopt the three definitions
found in Kumar Basak et al. (2018: 192) as follows:
1- E-learning is “the learning supported by digital electronic tools and media”.
2- M-learning is the “e-learning using mobile devices and wireless transmission”.
3- “Digital learning is any type of learning that is facilitated by technology or by
instructional practice that makes effective use of technology,” and it occurs in all
learning areas and domains.
However, as full description of learning management systems was found in Ulfa
and Fatawi (2021) as follows:
4- A learning management system (LMS) is a learning tool for conducting an instruc-
tional program in an online learning environment that mimics conventional class-
room learning practices. Synchronous and asynchronous communication mecha-
nisms, management features, and evaluation functions are all part of an LMS. These
functions make it more comfortable for the instructor to arrange the course. As a
result, an LMS can be described as a learning setting that empowers both students
and teachers to participate in personalized learning.
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 183
3.2 Gamification (Game Design)
Gamification is characterized as “the use of game-basedmechanics, aesthetics, and game
thinking to engage people, inspire action, encourage learning, and solve problems” (Kapp
2012). In essence, gamification applies game thinking, methods, and components in a
non-game sense and formal and informal contexts, using gameplay mechanics, which
increases motivation and engagement (Kiryakova et al. 2014).
Empirical studies show that Gamification tools are being used to promote learning
in a wide range of educational environments and academic subjects and resolve cross-
cutting attitudes and behaviors like teamwork, imagination, and self-guided learning
(Caponetto et al. 2014). Figure 1 shows the elements used in gamification to support the
e-learning processes.
Fig. 1. Gamification elements
3.3 Blockchain Technology
Blockchain, according to Tapscott and Tapscott (2017), is the Internet’s second gen-
eration. The first-generation stressed interaction and teamwork, but it was created for
transferring and storing information rather than meaning. It provides a stable database
where one can store important information (such as money accounts, transcripts, and
certificates), and having confidence embedded into the technology can help reshape
higher education and provide different learning models.
Furthermore, the technology could ensure that the student who enrolled in the course
finished it and understood the material. It may include a payment option and enable
students to build smart contracts to establish long-term learning strategies. For instance,
184 K. Al Shehhi and K. Almarri
the university’s course materials may contain an enormous number of pages at the
university level. Each page should be manually checked and approved for each student
who requires this document (to ensure accuracy). However, if this information is stored
on a blockchain, an individual might receive a complete, validated record of content
courses and academic qualifications only with a few clicks. Figure 2 shows how the
process is accomplished.
Fig. 2. Blockchain in education
3.4 Learning Analytics
LMSs are capable of collecting and storing activity data and logs. It tracks students’
engagement habits, such as where, how long, and how frequently they access various
resources, such as content, quizzes, forums, and other tools. Each online learner will
produce their own, unique data. Learning Analytics (LA) is a software application that
pulls data from a huge volume of log data generated by a learning management system
(LMS) (Aldowah et al. 2019).
Learning analytics is used to enhance learning by addressing matters that occur dur-
ing the education process. A data-driven approach is characterized as the use of data
to decide the best plan and objectives (Ulfa and Fatawi 2021). According to Jagadish
et al. (2014), a data-driven approach can address a multitude of challenges. The use
of LA can help build a more personalized, adaptive, and engaging learning environ-
ment, enhancing teaching and learning effectiveness and teachers’ and students’ output.
Figure 3 illustrates the learning analytics types in aggregate form.
4 Innovation Approach
This We use a design science method to create our new artifact in order to address
the explicated challenge in this work. According to Peffers et al. (2007), the solution’s
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 185
Fig. 3. Learning analytics types
objectives are formed from the established issue and knowledge of what is achievable
and practical. The aimmight be quantified in terms of how the current solution is superior
to the prior one or qualitatively in terms of how the new artifact is intended to aid in the
exploration of a solution to an unresolved challenge. Figure 4 depicts the stages of the
invention process.
Fig. 4. Design approach
4.1 Design and Development
This stage involves the creation of the artifact, based on problem identification and
objective of the design. The ultimate aim of this iteration is to construct a human-
186 K. Al Shehhi and K. Almarri
centered interface prototype as a means of communication and explore and test the
proposed artifacts’ specifications and suggestions from real-life users. Figure 5 shows
the prototype design.
Fig. 5. Prototype design
4.2 Demonstration
We created a proof-of-concept software prototype (called LMSD) mobile advertisement
platform to obtain feedback and further develop the prototype to demonstrate the pro-
posed artifact in solving highlighted problems. The prototype is aworkingmodel (Walker
et al. 2002) and the system’s first version before it is released. The demonstration phase
included three stakeholders of the software, namely students, employees, and teachers.
4.3 Evaluation
Further to the development and refinement phase, verify that the application meets the
study objectives and that the prototype is valuable in contributing to measurements and
producing satisfactory results.
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 187
5 Findings and Analysis
The system’s overall evaluation shows positive responses from the three parties involved
in the evaluation process. The involved participantswere asked to evaluate their perceived
usefulness from the system from 1 to 5. Table 2 shows the results of this analysis.
Table 2. LMSD overall evaluation
Stakeholder N Mean Std. Deviation
Students 20 4.2000 .83666
Employees 8 4.4000 .89443
Teachers 8 4.0000 .70711
Furthermore, a set of criteria found in related systems development have been used to
confirm the usefulness of LMSD. Table 3 illustrates these criteria and the corresponding
descriptive statistics.
Table 3. Overall evaluation criteria of LMSD
Criteria N Mean Std. Deviation
Usefulness to your personal needs 36 4.2222 .66667
Relevancy and convenience 36 4.5556 .72648
Ease of use 36 4.6667 .50000
Utility in term of feedback provided and incentives 36 4.3333 .70711
Privacy concern 36 4.6667 .70711
Not annoying 36 4.7778 .44096
Comprehensiveness 36 3.8889 .60093
Applicability 36 4.5556 .52705
These measurements have reverberated in participants’ comments; one of them
stated;
“It is not annoying; it saves my time and effort to search a material and make a
purchase decision.”
Another participant commented;
“It has a great incentive, and who will not be pleased to receive these incentives
on a daily basis? Besides, it is secure and protects my privacy and documents.”
The descriptive statistics revealed that the students are happy with the gamification
elements. However, these elements are ranked according to their priorities and desires
188 K. Al Shehhi and K. Almarri
of the students. Some features have been discarded in the final version of the system
based on students’ feedback. Capture from the analysis is shown in Fig. 6.
Fig. 6. Students’ feedback on Gamification elements
With regard to blockchain, the evaluation was reflected encouraging results. All
our participants were very interested in the new options added to the system. Their
assessment of the three new options is shown in Table 4.
Table 4. Blockchain features evaluations
Blockchain
Features
Students Employees Teachers
Payment 4.5 4.8 4.5
Certificate
issuance
4.8 4.9 4.6
Exam’s security 4.2 4.1 4.9
Despite their good comments, an in-depth chat with them revealed a need for further
functionality to be introduced to the system. In this regard, several members of the
university’s IT department recommended adopting blockchain-based cloud storage to
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 189
free up storage space on the university’s servers. Additionally, professors and some
postgraduate students demonstrated that blockchain security might be utilized to guard
against piracy of unpublished material. All of these features were incorporated into the
system’s final version.
Finally, the evaluation of learning analytics choices revealed a high level of accept-
ability among participants. Following numerous focus group meetings that included
a quick presentation and lengthy conversation, feedback shows widespread interest,
particularly among students and instructors.
Students and instructors were intrigued by the possibility of enhancing learning
outcomes through LA review. How can students’ performance be improved, or how can
instructors bemotivated to tailor a learning plan and appropriate instructionalmaterials to
students’ needs and personas? In this example, stakeholders employ LA as an analytical
technique to aid in policy development by identifying student inadequacies or learning
requirements in online learning. The evaluation of the three stakeholders is depicted in
Fig. 7.
Fig. 7. Learning analytics overall evaluation
6 Case Study: LMSD Deployment in the British University
in Dubai
The implementation process starts after the innovation proposal has been successfully
delivered to the potential stakeholders and went through several iterations. This is the
transition from a conventional e-learning system to a new LMSD system. Continuous
improvement extends the life of creativity until the next product substitutes it.
6.1 Final LMSD System
The new system incorporated all inputs from the participants. The final LMSD is an e-
learning system containing all the traditional features of LMS such asModule andBlack-
board and Gamification elements that support engagement and motivation, blockchain
190 K. Al Shehhi and K. Almarri
technology to provide more security to resources, and learning analytics to adapt to
students’ requirements.
Features of the new system.
1- It makes learning more enjoyable and engaging.
2- It allows students to see how real-world technologies are used.
3- It provides Real-time feedback.
4- It Improves the learning environment.
5- It Speeds up information retrieval.
6- It provides a more secure system.
7- It Replaces manual verification and issuance.
8- It has an effective storage.
9- It has a Personalization.
10- Cost-effectiveness.
6.2 Cost of Implementation
In this section, we present the cost-benefit analysis. The analysis shows myriad benefits
that justify the cost of implementation and adopting the new system. Table 5 illustrates
this analysis in numbers and added values.
Table 5. LMSD cost and benefits analysis
7 Resources 8 Cost 9 Benefits
10 Gamification system 11 50000 AED 12 Students’ retention, effective
teaching, more engagements
13 Blockchain technology 14 100000 AED 15 Effective and secure file storage,
remove cumbersome manual
tasks
16 Learning analytics 17 750000 AED 18 Personalization of the systems.
Increased student retention,
effective resource allocation
6.3 Other Required Resources
In order to implement the LMSD system, other supportive resources were utilized; Table
6 shows these resources and their related costs.
The numbers showed a significant return on investment (ROI). The current project’s
actual cost is within the estimated cost limit, and the deployment of the system offers
an enhanced overall learning process and higher students retention rate. These results
justify all related costs and efforts.
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 191
Table 6. LMSD supportive resources associated costs
19 Resources 20 Cost
21 System Training 22 100000 AED
23 New infrastructure 24 200000 AED
25 Programmers 26 20000 AED/month
6.4 Challenges of Implementation
As with any new digital innovation project, this project faces relatively minor challenges
compared to others as this system used a combination of pull and push strategy for
development. Using a customer-oriented approach and open innovation strategies has
increased the new technology resistance from final users. However, a few challenges are
listed as follows:
1- The low self-efficacy of some users is a normal issue in deploying new technology.
2- Employee’s resistant to accept new technology as they think it will replace their
roles.
3- Some system errors prevent participants from completing some tasks.
4- Low trust in technology from some teachers to store their sensitive material in the
system.
6.5 Post-implementation Phase
At this stage, all challenges and hurdles are treated in professional ways using the best
practice available. To avoid the obstacles in the implementation stages a regularmeetings
and training sessions were held. The main aim is to permeate how the new system will
provide value for all university members and not threaten employees’ traditional roles.
Additionally, low self-efficacy and trust were handled by professional trainers.
In order to assess the post-implementation Ex post evaluation was used. Ex post
assessment is a method of determining a system’s value after it has been applied using
both financial and non-financial criteria. Ex post assessment methods in information sys-
tems can be drawn from a crucial application of the “context, information, and method”
model built for assessing organizational change (Venable et al. 2016).
Post-implementation is a crucial phase in innovation that is taken to not rely on first
success and become complacent and futile. According to this phase, the system was
reinvigorated, and new features were added. For instance, the gamification elements
were not standard to all students, and the need to personalize them is in urgent demand.
As such, a new feature was added, which is called gamification behavioral analytics.
This feature is vital to increase the efficiency of the system.
192 K. Al Shehhi and K. Almarri
7 Conclusion
Modern technologies such as gamification, blockchain, and learning analytics have
demonstrated their viability in a variety of sectors, one of which is education. We inte-
grated these new technologies into LMS systems in this study to address fundamental
issues and obstacles that impede the learning process directly and indirectly. In terms of
gamification design, the application increased students’ interest and motivation signifi-
cantly. Additionally, blockchain technology has demonstrated its efficacy in protecting
the transmission and storage of digital information. Additionally, several new services,
such as payment and cloud-based blockchain storage, have been introduced depending
on potential customers’ pull approach. Finally, learning analytics plays a significant
role in evaluating students’ data logs in order to tailor and adjust the features of LMS
systems. Additionally, after multiple revisions, the gamification design was evaluated
and its features customized depending on student engagement using learning analytics
concepts. Overall, the final LMSD systemwas introduced, and as a fundamental concept
of controlling the innovation process, constant assessment is used to make any necessary
adjustments. Although some employees and students expressedmodest opposition to the
method, this resistance was overcome via the provision of essential training and encour-
agement. The system’s early adoption demonstrates a high return on investment and a
plethora of benefits that surpass the system’s development and deployment expenses.
References
Aldowah, H., Al-Samarraie, H., Fauzy, W.M.: Educational data mining and learning analytics for
21st century higher education: a review and synthesis. Telematics Inform. 37, 13–49 (2019)
Bruggeman, B., Tondeur, J., Struyven, K., Pynoo, B., Garone, A., Vanslambrouck, S.: Experts
speaking: Crucial teacher attributes for implementing blended learning in higher education.
Internet High. Educ. 48, 100772 (2021)
Caponetto, I., Earp, J., Ott, M.: Gamification and education: a literature review. In: European
Conference on Games Based Learning, vol. 1, p. 50. Academic Conferences International
Limited (October 2014)
Hevner, A., vom Brocke, J., Maedche, A.: Roles of digital innovation in design science research.
Bus. Inf. Syst. Eng. 61(1), 3–8 (2019)
Jagadish, H.V., et al.: Big data and its technical challenges. Commun. ACM 57, 86–94 (2014)
Kapp, K.M.: TheGamification of LearningAnd Instruction: Game-BasedMethodsAnd Strategies
for Training and Education. John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken (2012)
Kiryakova, G., Angelova, N., Yordanova, L.: Gamification in education. In: Proceedings of 9th
International Balkan Education and Science Conference (2014)
Kumar Basak, S., Wotto, M., Belanger, P.: E-learning, M-learning and D-learning: conceptual
definition and comparative analysis. E-Learn. Digit. Media 15, 191–216 (2018)
Mestan, K.: Create a fine blend: an examination of institutional transition to blended learning.
Australas. J. Educ. Technol. 35 (2019)
Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M.A., Chatterjee, S.: A design science research
methodology for information systems research. J. Manag. Inf. Syst. 24, 45–77 (2007)
Salloum,S.A.,Al-Emran,M., Shaalan,K., Tarhini,A.: Factors affecting theE-learning acceptance:
a case study from UAE. Educ. Inf. Technol. 24(1), 509–530 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1007/
s10639-018-9786-3
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10639-018-9786-3
Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design 193
Sangrà, A., Vlachopoulos, D., Cabrera, N.: Building an inclusive definition of E-learning: an
approach to the conceptual framework. Int. Rev. Res. Open Distrib. Learn. 13, 145–159 (2012)
Tapscott, D., Tapscott, A.: How blockchain will change organizations. MIT Sloan Manag. Rev.
58, 10 (2017)
Ulfa, S., Fatawi, I.: Predicting factors that influence students’ learning outcomes using learning
analytics in online learning environment. Int. J. Emerg. Technol. Learn. (ijet) 16, 4–17 (2021)
Venable, J., Pries-Heje, J., Baskerville, R.: FEDS: a framework for evaluation in design science
research. Eur. J. Inf. Syst. 25, 77–89 (2016)
Walker, M., Takayama, L., Landay, J.A.: High-fidelity or low-fidelity, paper or computer?
Choosing attributes when testing web prototypes. In: Proceedings of the Human Factors and
Ergonomics Society Annual Meeting, 2002, pp. 661–665. SAGE Publications Sage CA, Los
Angeles, CA (2002)
	Using a Hybrid Approach of Game Design, Blockchain Technology and Learning Analytics in Higher Education Institutions: A Case Study of the British University in Dubai
	1 Introduction
	2 Practical Problem
	3 Literature Review
	3.1 E-Learning Systems
	3.2 Gamification (Game Design)
	3.3 Blockchain Technology
	3.4 Learning Analytics
	4 Innovation Approach
	4.1 Design and Development
	4.2 Demonstration
	4.3 Evaluation
	5 Findings and Analysis
	6 Case Study: LMSD Deployment in the British University in Dubai
	6.1 Final LMSD System
	6.2 Cost of Implementation
	6.3 Other Required Resources
	6.4 Challenges of Implementation
	6.5 Post-implementation Phase
	7 Conclusion
	References