SUPPLYDECK &#x2013; A Blockchain-Based Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Management
979-8-3503-9809-0/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
SUPPLYDECK – A Blockchain-Based 
Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Management 
Amarasinghe A.A.B.G.  
Department of Computer Science and 
Software Engineering  
Faculty of Computing 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology  
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
gayasha9944@gmail.com 
Subawickrama H.D.A.E. 
Department of Information Technology 
Faculty of Computing 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
ashansube@gmail.com
Gamagedara G.M.H.S. 
Department of Information Technology 
Faculty of Computing 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
hsanoj99@gmail.com 
Kavinga Yapa Abeywardena 
Department of Information Systems 
Engineering 
Faculty of Computing 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
kavinga.y@sliit.lk
Pitigala K.K. 
Department of Information Technology 
Faculty of Computing 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
kushanikavindya44@gmail.com 
Kanishka Yapa 
Department of Information Systems 
Engineering 
Faculty of Computing 
Sri Lanka Institute of Information 
Technology 
Malabe, Sri Lanka 
kanishka.y@sliit.lk
Abstract— With the rising competition among 
pharmaceutical companies, the current drug supply chain 
market has become more competitive with high-quality product 
segments. The rapid growth of internet pharmacies has made it 
more difficult to standardize drug safety throughout in complex 
distributed supply chain networks. There is a high chance of 
introducing counterfeit drugs which are almost the same as the 
original pharmaceuticals. Due to the lack of transparency the 
possibility of tampering with drugs in the current manual and 
web-based pharmaceutical systems is extremely high. 
Throughout the past recent years, these counterfeit drugs were 
recognized as the one of major worldwide problems. This 
situation is worse in developing countries. The unavailability of 
verifying the legitimacy of drug suppliers and poor mechanisms 
to trace the drugs were identified as critical points that need to 
be resolved. SUPPLYDECK comes as a solution for the critical 
scenario mentioned. This solution addresses the above problems 
using blockchain technology, as a distributed digital ledger that 
ensures transparency, traceability, and security. This can show 
promise for solving some global supply chain management 
problems using smart contracts and user authentication along 
with IoT technology and machine learning concepts that are 
critically examined with this potential application. 
Keywords— drug supply chain, pharmaceutical, blockchain, 
smart contracts, user authentication, IoT, AWS, API 
I. INTRODUCTION
Modern day healthcare systems are complex networks 
consisting of several independent entities. That includes the 
origin point as manufacturer companies and the end user as 
the drug consumer who is the best priority. In this process, 
many organizations, transportation modes, and stakeholders 
such as distributors, producers, wholesalers, drivers, and 
pharmacists are actively involved in the pharmaceutical 
supply chain under various situations. While doing this 
delivery process it has been identified that in public health, the 
safety of the pharmaceuticals throughout the supply chain is 
one of the major concerns, which is a collective process. When 
it is considered deeper on the safety approach, the security 
threat is the most significant safety violation that is happening 
in the current drug supply chain. Prevention of counterfeit 
pharmaceuticals and managing the access privileges to the 
stakeholders are identified as the major precautions needed for 
the advanced security approach in the supply chain. The next 
main safety related violation that can ordinarily happen in the 
pharmaceutical supply chain is cold chain management with 
parameter monitoring in the stored environments. Once the 
drug is purchased a proper mechanism should be there to share 
the customer feedback with the audience. In the current supply 
chain, there is no existing customer satisfaction monitoring. 
According to the World Health Organization (WHO), 
taking counterfeit drugs could have serious side effects [1]. 
The unavailability of the an automated mechanism to verify 
the quality of the drugs that are consumed in the day to day 
life is very challenging to overcome because fake drugs are 
introduced to consumers with the same look that is totally like 
the original product and even the brand names logos are also 
the same as the original pharmaceutical [2]. This will mislead 
the patients to consume fake products. Because of this 
counterfeit drug consumption, people are experiencing 
various side effects and unfortunately died as well. 
 In addition to the safety, existing drug supply chains have 
many disruptive such as lack of transparency, loss of records, 
manual data recording, the untrustworthiness of the 
stakeholders, tampering drugs, and the same drug under 
different brand names [3]. Due to the lack of transparency, the 
participants cannot verify whether the received drug has come 
from a legitimate supplier and there is no proper mechanism 
to track and trace whether the pharmaceutical is legit, how the 
drugs were delivered, and how much quantities of dug lots 
were delivered within a period. Most organizations still follow 
the recording of the manual drug, and some are using web-
based systems with limited administrator access. But these 
types of data recording can be altered and deleted by an 
external third-party involvement. In web-based systems some 
untrustworthy administrators can misbehave and go wrong, 
finally causing a data loss. 
This research proposed a working real-time solution to 
envision a robust and transparent traceability system for the 
modern pharmaceutical supply chain. The solution designed 
using blockchain-based drug supply chain tracking and 
monitoring provides a better solution to build the trust of the 
participants. SUPPLYDECK provides a web-based system 
integrated with mobile apps to scan a QR code placed outside 
of the drug package which allows the consumers to access the 
most current updated and accurate information related to the 
specific drug. The data is injected into the system in two ways. 
84
20
22
 4
th
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 A
dv
an
ce
m
en
ts
 in
 C
om
pu
tin
g 
(I
C
A
C
) |
 9
79
-8
-3
50
3-
98
09
-0
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
A
C
57
68
5.
20
22
.1
00
25
09
3
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:10 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1. Manual data entry via mobile app. 
2. Automatic feed from the sensors. 
Once the data is entered into the system, it is signed at the 
origin and is hashed, and time stamped. Only the hashes along 
with metadata go to the blockchain [4]. The data ledger in the 
blockchain is immutable. It can provide proof that traceability 
data added to the system have not been altered afterward due 
to the high security in the blockchain system. The supply chain 
flow diagram, Fig. 1 shows the way of interconnecting supply 
chain nodes with the blockchain. 
 
Fig. 1. Supply Chain Flow Diagram 
Decentralized technology that offers self-controlled 
identity with a higher degree of privacy among all the nodes 
of the large network. The decentralized database enables 
stakeholders in the drug supply chain to expose only necessary 
information without compromising confidential business data. 
Using smart contracts and user identification with varied 
access privileges, blockchain technology which acts as a 
distributed digital ledger system while showing promise for 
reducing some global supply chain management issues. This 
research enables of monitoring the counterfeit drugs entering 
the supply chain, with more accuracy using blockchain to 
become the journey of the drug more secure and streamlined. 
II. BACKGROUND AND LITERATURE SURVEY 
The pharmaceutical supply chain is a network of nodes 
that connects organizations, individuals, technology, and 
resources involved in pharmaceutical production. 
SUPPLYDECK provides functionalities using the 
technologies of AWS, Ethereum, Solidity, IoT, and Natural 
Language Processing. The followings are the literature survey 
done in this research. The efforts to identify relevant literature 
that addressed the existing work are proposed in this study 
through the literature search. 
A. User Authentication with RFID Solution 
 To register users for the system some research used 
Hyperledger Fabric drug traceability architecture that allows 
all stakeholders for participating organizations to end users 
registered by the Health Authority using a design known as 
Membership Service Provider [5]. Using MSP, rules and 
regulations for various stakeholders are governed, 
authenticated, validated, and granted access to the blockchain 
resources. Some have applied Hyperledger Fabric blockchain 
based biomedical engineering supply chain that has nodes as 
the supplier, manufacturers, warehouses, hospitals, and 
admin. Each entity is designed to acquire a copy of the central 
ledger [6]. 
When considering the tagging solution much research has 
used Near Field Communication (NFC) tags to achieve 
visibility and authenticity across the pharmaceutical supply 
chain. Each drug is registered and authenticated using a key 
value and an NFC tag is attached to it [7]. The end users can 
verify the origin and authenticity of the drug by scanning the 
attached NFC tag through a mobile application. The Radio 
Frequency Identification (RFID) technology for tracking and 
tracing products have proposed by a study in 2014, and they 
discovered that allowing an RFID barcode hybrid technology 
improves the speed and accuracy of product location within 
the hospital, which is useful during product recalls [8]. 
B. Decentralized Blockchain with Smart Contracts 
There are some product traceability difficulties in the 
pharmaceutical supply chain, and it might consider the way of 
providing provenance, track, and trace solutions to reduce 
counterfeit pharmaceuticals using blockchain technology as a 
current need. The Hyperledger Fabric blockchain architecture 
provides a shared, trusted, permissioned, and decentralized 
platform for storage and communication across various nodes 
[5]. A system called Drug ledger, a practical blockchain 
system for drug regulation and traceability that reconstructs 
the entire service architecture by separating the service 
provider into three independent components [9]. The solution 
is cost-effective in terms of the gas fee required to carry out 
the numerous operations triggered by the smart contract. The 
suggested approach protects against malicious attempts to 
target the integrity, availability, and nonrepudiation of 
transaction data in a complex multi-party scenario [7]. 
 The numerous workflows in the healthcare ecosystem that 
use blockchain technology for better data management were 
analyzed while considering the existing literature of 
blockchain applications in healthcare sector [10]. Ethereum 
based for clinical trials and basic outpatient surgical procedure 
using smart contract [11]. An article has proposed a new 
blockchain based medicine supply chain management system 
by creating a system based on the permissioned supply chain 
[12]. The performance of several types of requests and the 
quantity of clients has been assessed to acquire tolerable 
efficiency [13]. The decentralized blockchain architecture was 
validated through smart contract to achieve the permissioned 
supply chain. 
C. Cold Chain Management 
Considering the literature associated with cold chain 
management using blockchain technology, the approach of the 
review is chronological and theoretical. There is much 
existing research completed to track temperature sensitive 
pharmaceuticals in several stages. They have used different 
technologies and tried to increase the accuracy and the 
detection of the sensor data. When reading papers regarding 
cold chain management and tracking using various 
technologies, common problems, and methodologies can be 
identified. To control the risk assessment variables and quality 
management, research has been [14] proposed a detailed 
framework for the cold chain management while monitoring 
temperature and distribution procedures. They suggested that 
the pharmaceutical drug supply chain currently needs to 
develop a temperature and humidity monitoring system. 
In 2017, the mean availability of essential cold chain 
products was 72.1 ± 14.8% while the pharmaceutical wastage 
rate due to expiration was 9.2 ± 7.8% and due to improper 
storage conditions 63.8 ± 36.2%. The cold chain management 
using blockchain technology along with the IoT has been 
conducted by Modum.io and they released a pilot operation 
in 2016. Consequently, 52 shipments were accomplished 
successfully, and temperature readings were taken. A total of 
7576 temperature points were collected, with sensors taking 
reading every ten minutes [15]. Also, a blockchain-IoT based 
supply chain management system was proposed by properly 
monitoring the cold chain for temperature specific drugs [16]. 
85
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:10 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Finally, they show full implementation to deploy the system 
and conduct rigorous performance evaluation with detailed 
security analysis of a scalable blockchain network. Another 
blockchain based framework to handle the drug supply chain 
was proposed by utilizing the blockchain and smart contracts-
based system [17]. They have not properly analyzed the 
supply chain management of vaccines that have special 
temperature and weather requirements which is one of the 
common issues nowadays. 
D. Automated Drug Rating 
Over the years, much research has been drawn to the way 
of determining helpful drug reviews and used a variety of 
methods to predict the usefulness of drug reviews. For this, 
some used a machine learning approach while others used a 
statistical approach [18]. Research published in 2020, 
proposed a drug rating and recommender framework to 
generate drug ratings based on the reviews. The usefulness of 
the drug reviews for the users and the sentimental polarity of 
the reviews have been obtained at the end of the research [19]. 
In 2019, a team presented a drug rating system with a weekly 
supervised mechanism, whose main objective was to 
recognize the sentiment inclination of drug review by 
sentiment analysis [20]. Chua and Banerjee [21] tested a 
machine learning model utilizing Amazon.com reviews to 
determine the association between review sentiment and 
helpfulness. They discovered that the usefulness of the 
reviews was independent of the type of the product and the 
review helpfulness can vary as a function of review sentiment.  
Using social media sites to collect data on customer 
reviews and discussions about drugs another study was 
conducted [22], and they analyzed the collected data using a 
data mining technique that classify those filtered data under 
specific aspects. As the final output received was revealed as 
62% positive reviews and 38% were negative responses and 
the system accuracy was 85%. When considering ecommerce 
customer reviews, a system was proposed that mines topics 
and sentiment orientation that can be used to track and manage 
customer reviews [23]. They were created to capture the 
reviews in both Chinese and English languages, and they 
could recognize the offensive words as well. That was to 
provide data to ecommerce enterprises and product 
manufacturers to improve their product quality and service. 
III. RESEARCH OBJECTIVES 
The main goal of this research is to improve the overall 
security and transparency of pharmaceutical drug authenticity 
and supply while ensuring secure interoperability among 
healthcare organizations at several stages of the supply chain. 
With the aim of developing a patient-centric pharmaceutical 
supply chain while maintaining the good name of the 
pharmaceutical suppliers, research has been designed with the 
minimum resources. SUPPLYDECK supports the following 
sub-objectives. 
• Provide user authentication and to allow retrieving of 
traceability data easily with the use of RFID tags. 
• Apply smart contracts to the blockchain to perform 
transactions without an intermediary. 
• Review cold chain management to track the cold chain 
process of temperature sensitive pharmaceuticals. 
• Classify user ratings of drugs and measure review 
quality metrics to summarize review results. 
These sub functionalities are deeply researched as 
individual functionalities to achieve the final SUPPLYDECK 
decentralized blockchain based platform. 
IV. METHODOLOGY 
SUPPLYDECK is a combined system of web applications 
and mobile applications which are used along with IoT 
technology for tracking and tracing the pharmaceutical drug 
supply chain. SUPPLYDECK web portal is mainly for 
visualizing the entered pharmaceutical data, traceability data, 
and sensor data of the temperature-sensitive drugs. In addition 
to that, a mobile application for pharmacists and a separate 
application for consumers to view the traceability data are 
designed. 
 
Fig. 2. System Overall Diagram 
SUPPLYDECK consists of four sub-parts to achieve the 
fully combined system as in the above Fig. 2. The four main 
functionalities of the system are user authentication with 
RFID tagging solution, decentralized blockchain network 
with smart contracts, cold chain management for temperature-
sensitive drugs, and automated drug rating system based on 
consumer reviews. Figure 2 demonstrates the way of blending 
four main functionalities to create an overall SUPPLYDECK 
system. All four different functionalities combine into one 
canvas which came out as one single blockchain platform to 
prove the concepts in the pharmaceutical drug supply chain 
underlying a decentralized blockchain network. 
A. User Authentication with RFID Solution 
In a decentralized blockchain network to enable security 
for each participant and their transactions, user authentication 
will be enabled to the SUPPLYDECK participants to increase 
the confidentiality and security. For anonymous user 
authentication functionality AWS user pools have been used 
to provide high security and different access privileges to the 
users. Once the company administrator created the blockchain 
account in SUPPLYDECK he can assign distinct roles for the 
users according to their company business requirements. 
These user roles have different tasks for each user level, 
permissions and limitations that are needed to be given to each 
user level and the different inputs that each user level adds to 
the blockchain. When implementing this in the application 
86
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:10 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
creation of user groups and granting different user permissions 
for different user levels using AWS user pools using Identity 
and Access Management web service. This process of user 
account creation and RFID tagging solution is explained in the 
below diagram Fig. 3. 
 
Fig. 3. User Authentication with RFID Solution 
 Once the stakeholders are registered to the system while 
creating AWS users and next assign each user to a specific 
user level. Then those permissioned users can enter the data 
into the blockchain and for this data entering purpose RFID 
tags will be used. This can easier the process of data entering 
the blockchain rather than entering data into the system 
manually. RFID tags will be placed on top of the drugs and 
that can be scanned through a mobile application and those 
data will be captured and sent to the blockchain. The unique 
data related to a certain drug can be entered to the mobile app 
using the SUPPLYDECK mobile application. 
B. Decentralized Blockchain with Smart Contracts 
 Throughout the supply chain smart contracts are used to 
track the location of the drug. This can be done when the 
manufacturer provides a unique code which cannot be 
tampered with or removed. This process includes enabling 
smart contracts to track pharmaceuticals, Web 3.0 for the 
decentralized blockchain architecture, and a private 
blockchain explorer built on Ethereum. Ethereum relies on 
key storage, user account creation, transaction signing, and 
queries to the Ethereum database. The Private blockchain 
explorer lies on top of the Ethereum to track and trace all the 
transactions happening in the drug supply chain and those data 
records are displaying in blockchain explorer. The blockchain 
module mainly designed to create a reliable application that 
can explore relevant information stored in the ledger. The 
following diagram, Fig. 4 displays how the blockchain works 
on the SUPPLYDECK application. 
 
Fig. 4. Decentralized Blockchain with Smart Contracts 
The blockchain traceability data can be retrieved to the 
clients via a Gateway and inside the Gateway the API’s, 
Routes, running transactions are relies. The gateway is 
directly connected to the blockchain, and decentralized 
storage system connects and enables smart contracts as shown 
in the diagram, Fig. 5 . Once the transaction is completed all 
participants can verify their transactions using the blockchain 
explorer. 
 
Fig. 5. Blockchain Architecture 
C. Cold Chain Management  
This research has a sub feature to analyze the tracking of 
the temperature, humidity and the location of temperature 
sensitive pharmaceuticals and find the most suitable 
mitigation for temperature-controlled warehouses. Using 
temperature and humidity sensor tracking using IoT-based 
technologies, cold chain management will be focused on the 
degree to which storage conditions in the pharmaceutical drug 
supply chain comply for storage and handling of temperature 
sensitive medicines. In this research for the pilot 
implementation Insulin is used as the temperature-controlled 
drug. Using the sensor system, it has a capability of tracking 
and store temperature and humidity readings of the storage 
devices for a period and able to retrieve those data through 
sensors to track live data that needs to be stored under special 
temperature conditions. For the storing process 
pharmaceutical organizations commonly use refrigerators and 
cooling containers. The process of tracking storage conditions 
from the warehouse to the live data interpretation on the 
SUPPLYDECK web portal is shown in the below Fig. 6 . 
 
Fig. 6. IoT-based Cold Chain Management 
 As shown in the above diagram the proposed IoT system 
can track any drug that needs to be stored at a specific 
temperature to retrieve whether they are in required 
environmental conditions such as temperature, humidity. An 
apparatus consisting with a DHT22 temperature and humidity 
sensor along with a Raspberry Pi device is used to capture the 
storage data in real time and those captured data will be sent 
to the blockchain. Blockchain will show the sensor data of the 
pharmaceuticals using a Backend API throughout various 
stages of the supply chain.  
87
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:10 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
D. Automated Drug Rating 
 In automated drug rating, it enables customers to submit 
reviews for the pharmaceutical products they purchased and 
implements a model for gathering both positive and negative 
feedback. Negative reviews won't be removed in that model, 
while increasing the products' credibility as a result. Using an 
ecommerce website, it has the capability of exporting reviews 
to a delimited text file which facilitates the analysis for 
collecting the customer reviews. Another model needs to be 
trained to achieve the preprocessing for review text files. For 
that text mining is used for classification for the reviews while 
one part of the reviews goes to the mobile application while 
other one is for the drug. Furthermore, this model 
implementation includes word segmentation, of speech 
tagging, feature representation, semantic categorization, and 
sentiment analysis. The concept of this review training model 
illustrates in the below Fig. 7. 
 
Fig. 7. Process of Customer Feedback and Review Rating 
The process of word segmentation will initially be used to 
separate written text into understandable pieces like words, 
phrases, or subjects. The provided words are then highlighted 
in a text as belonging to a specific part of the speech. To 
determine the subjects that customers communicate about the 
most, a semantic analysis is conducted. This can categorize 
the reviews as positive or negative automatically. Finally, the 
SUPPLYDECK mobile application can render the reviews 
accessible to drug buyers. 
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The SUPPLYDECK team surveyed individuals involved 
in the pharmaceutical supply chain when the research was 
initiated. The study's primary data collection tools, including 
the questionnaire and interviews, combine quantitative and 
qualitative data. The next phase of the study was to analyze 
the survey results obtained. According to the consumer 
responses they need SUPPLYDECK kind of a system. 
Additionally, the team connected with pharmacists, drug 
distributors, and the appropriate drug authorities in person. 
Since the mentioned parties are the participants throughout 
the supply chain, our team interviewed them as considering 
them all as the organizations. Therefore, on the organizations 
perspective they are also revealed that the need of a 
SUPPLYDECK kind of a system is very high. 
 
In customer review mining to select the most accurate 
review rating algorithm for the model Multinominal Naive 
Bayes, Logistic Regression, Support Vector Machine, 
Decision Tree, and Random Forest algorithms were tested. 
The following table, TABLE I  illustrates the results for 
accuracy. 
TABLE I. REVIEW RATING ACCURACY RESULTS 
Testing Model Accuracy 
Random Forest 0.9350 
Logistics Regression 0.9392 
Decision Tree 0.9016 
Support Vector Machine 0.9393 
Multinomial Naïve Bayes 0.9344 
 
Among the above algorithms, the Support Vector Machine 
model was selected as the most accurate model for the review 
results prediction. 
 
Fig. 8. Transaction Log of a Smart Contract 
The above figure, Fig. 8 illustrates how transactions can 
be verified using EtherScan after a successful smart contract 
execution. This process allows participants to access the 
transaction id, encrypted blockchain data, and transaction 
timestamp. 
In sensor data application testing the number of sensor 
clients had an impact with the response time to retrieve and 
store sensor data sent by simultaneously. However, taking use 
of scalability support by adding more servers might improve 
in achieving a lower response time as compared to a single 
server. And the ability of blockchain to connect with IoT 
without human interaction enabled more convenience. 
After the implementation phase, a pilot version has been 
tested using stakeholders. This concept and this tool impressed 
all these stakeholders. The results were obtained as in the 
below chart Fig. 9. With these findings gathered that the 
implementation of blockchain to the current drug supply chain 
would benefit the pharmaceutical industry. 
 
 Fig. 9. Participants’ Feedback Results 
SUPPLYDECK envision a robust and transparent 
traceability system for the pharmaceutical drug supply chain. 
In this article, we are presenting how blockchain technology 
can be applied to the pharmaceutical supply chain in need of 
88
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:10 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
drug traceability. Blockchain architecture based on Ethereum 
deployed with smart contracts to establish a peer-to-peer 
network.  These architectures offer a shared, trusted, 
permission able, and decentralized platform for 
communications and data storage and sharing among various 
stakeholders in the pharmaceutical supply chain, and 
individuals that can satisfy important requirements and 
features like security, privacy, accessibility, transparency, and 
scalability. 
In this paper, we discussed the major drawbacks of the 
existing current pharmaceutical supply chains, and the goal of 
this research was to introduce a streamlined process for 
reliable medication tracing without tampering the data with an 
organized approach in a cost-effective manner. We intend to 
research deeper on improving the efficiency of 
pharmaceutical supply chains and to emphasize future works 
on enhancing the suggested system to achieve a complete end 
to end transparency and verification of pharmaceuticals with 
having more features such as proof of work while increasing 
the system performance for increasing supply chain nodes. 
REFERENCES 
[1] R. Anand, K. Niyas, S. Gupta, and S. Revathy, "Anti-counterfeit on 
medicine detection using blockchain technology," in Inventive
Communication and Computational Technologies, Springer, 2020, 
pp. 1223-1232. 
[2] I. Haq, and O. M. Esuka, "Blockchain technology in pharmaceutical 
industry to prevent counterfeit drugs," International Journal of
Computer Applications, vol. 180, pp. 8-12, 2018. 
[3] D. Mehta, S. Tanwar, U. Bodkhe, A. Shukla, and N. Kumar, 
"Blockchain for Supply Chain Management," in Blockchain
Technology: From Theory to Practice, Springer Nature Singapore,
2022, pp. 321-353. 
[4] D. Minoli, and B. Occhiogrosso, "Blockchain mechanisms for IoT 
security," Internet of Things, vol. 1, pp. 1-13, 2018.
[5] M. Uddin, K. Salah, R. Jayaraman, S. Pesic and S. Ellahham,
"Blockchain for drug traceability: Architectures and open
challenges," Health Informatics Journal, vol. 27, 2021. 
[6] M. R. Amin, M. F. Zuhairi, and M. N. Saadat, "Transparent data
dealing: Hyperledger fabric based biomedical engineering supply 
chain," in 2021 15th International Conference on Ubiquitous
Information Management and Communication (IMCOM), 2021.
[7] A. Musamih et al., "A blockchain-based approach for drug 
traceability in healthcare supply chain," IEEE access, vol. 9, pp.
9728-9743, 2021.
[8] A. Romero, "Improving the logistics operations of the hospital 
pharmacy using a barcode-RFID identification system," in
Transactions on engineering technologies, Springer, 2014, pp. 733-
747. 
[9] Y. Huang, J. Wu, and C. Long, "Drugledger: A practical blockchain
system for drug traceability and regulation," in 2018 IEEE 
international conference on internet of things (iThings) and IEEE
green computing and communications (GreenCom) and IEEE cyber, 
physical and social computing (CPSCom) and IEEE smart data
(SmartData), 2018.
[10] C. K. Lee, Y. Z. Huo, S. Z. Zhang, and K. K. H. Ng, "Design of a 
smart manufacturing system with the application of multi-access 
edge computing and blockchain technology," IEEE Access, pp. 
28659-28667, 2020.
[11] A. Khatoon, "A blockchain-based smart contract system for 
healthcare management," Electronics, vol. 9, p. 94, 2020. 
[12] K. Abbas, M. Afaq, T. Ahmed Khan and W. C. Song, "A blockchain 
and machine learning-based drug supply chain management and 
recommendation system for smart pharmaceutical industry," 
Electronics, vol. 9, p. 852, 2020.
[13] S. Ni, X. Bai, Y. Liang, Z. Pang, and L. Li, "Blockchain-based 
traceability system for supply chain: potentials, gaps, applicability 
and adoption game," Enterprise Information Systems, 2022.
[14] R. H. Bishara, "Cold chain management--an essential component of 
the global pharmaceutical supply chain," American Pharmaceutical 
Review, vol. 9, pp. 105-109, 2006. 
[15] D. Feyisa, A. Jemal, T. Aferu, F. Ejeta, and A. Endeshaw,
"Evaluation of Cold Chain Management Performance for 
Temperature-Sensitive Pharmaceuticals at Public Health Facilities 
Supplied by the Jimma Pharmaceuticals Supply Agency Hub, 
Southwest Ethiopia: Pharmaceuticals Logistic Management 
Perspective Using a Mult," Advances in pharmacological and 
pharmaceutical sciences, vol. 2021, 2021. 
[16] R. Singh, A. D. Dwivedi, and G. Srivastava, "Internet of things 
based blockchain for temperature monitoring and counterfeit 
pharmaceutical prevention," Sensors, vol. 20, p. 3951, 2020.
[17] A. Kumar, K. Abhishek, P. Nerurkar, M. R. Ghalib, A. Shankar, and 
X. Cheng, "Secure smart contracts for cloud-based manufacturing 
using Ethereum blockchain," Transactions on Emerging 
Telecommunications Technologies, vol. 33, 2022.
[18] O. Kolchyna, T. T. Souza, P. Treleaven, and T. Aste, "Twitter 
sentiment analysis: Lexicon method, machine learning method and 
their combination," arXiv preprint, 2015, arXiv:1507.00955.
[19] M. D. Hossain, M. S. Azam, M. J. Ali, and H. Sabit, "Drugs rating 
generation and recommendation from sentiment analysis of drug 
reviews using machine learning," in 2020 Emerging Technology in 
Computing, Communication and Electronics (ETCCE), 2020, pp. 
1-6. 
[20] Z. Min, "Drugs reviews sentiment analysis using weakly supervised 
model," in 2019 IEEE International Conference on Artificial 
Intelligence and Computer Applications (ICAICA), 2019.
[21] A. Y. Chua, and S. Banerjee, "Helpfulness of user-generated reviews 
as a function of review sentiment, product type and information 
quality," Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 54, pp. 547-554, 2016. 
[22] V. Moon, and P. Borkar, "Extraction of Drug Reviews by Specific 
Aspects for Sentimental Analysis," International Journal of 
Computer Science and Information Technologies (IJCSIT), vol. 7, 
pp. 1186-1189, 2016.
[23] D. Bin, S. Peiji, and Z. Dan, "E-commerce reviews management 
system based on online customer reviews mining," in 2010 
International Conference on Innovative Computing and 
Communication and 2010 Asia-Pacific Conference on Information 
Technology and Ocean Engineering, 2010. 
89
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:10 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.