Tagged PDF
19
Chapter 2
Financial Data, Blockchain, 
Decision- Making and Quality 
of Experience
2.1  Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
Blockchain is a technology that enables cryptocurrency, such as bitcoin (the most 
popular cryptocurrency). Cryptocurrency, in general, is a digital payment system 
that does not rely on banks as intermediary nodes to complete monetary transac-
tions, but instead it is a peer-to-peer digital payment system that can enable anyone 
to participate in monetary transactions, e.g. to send and receive payments. Game 
theoretic philosophy is a core aspect of blockchain design.
2.1.1  Financial Data and Blockchain
Cryptocurrencies, and blockchain as their underlying technology, have revolution-
ized the transaction of funds, as well as the potentialities of blockchain in how 
people, organizations and societies can function and conduct business (DiNizo 
2018). When it comes to blockchain-based digital currencies (and cryptocurren-
cies), bitcoin (Nakamoto 2008) has been the most prominent (Abramova and Böhme 
2016). In that context, blockchain technology acts as a decentralized (with peer-to- 
peer (P2P) networks) and encrypted security system for a distributed ledger; a chain 
of data blocks each of which keeps track and record of (cryptocurrency) transac-
tions. Each block records a crypto hash for the block before it (hence, a “chain”), the 
transaction data and a timestamp (Du et al. 2019). Pairs of public and private keys 
compose a public key infrastructure (PKI) which enables the secure transfer of data 
(Abramova and Böhme 2016) and where the chained blocks prevent the tampering 
of the previously manifested transactions (Beck et al. 2018).
Blockchain allows for the creation of autonomous, self-governing and self- 
regulating infrastructure (Chapron 2017; Wörner et al. 2016), overwriting the need 
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2023
J. Antoniou, O. Tringides, Effects of Data Overload on User Quality  
of Experience, EAI/Springer Innovations in Communication and Computing, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06870-6_2
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-06870-6_2#DOI
20
of supporting traditional financial institutions and authorities who would normally 
act as a trusted mediating third party or centralized authority (being government or 
private financial institutions) (Aste et al. 2017; Barrett et al. 2016) (Fig. 2.1).
As financial transactions and trading activities are dependent on trust (Tang 
2018), for blockchain technology’s application in the financial sector, trust is para-
mount, as the execution of payment transactions must be secure (Kshetri 2018). 
Blockchain is thus particularly fitting for the context of decentralized environments, 
where parties (humans or devices) lack mutual trust (Lindman et  al. 2017). 
Cryptocurrencies (with blockchain) enable mutually mistrusting entities to perform 
financial transactions without relying on a central trusted third party while offering 
a transparent and integrity-protected data storage (Nakamoto 2008). As a result of 
decentralization of blockchain applications, it reduces the risks and challenges of 
both privacy and trust (Lindman et al. 2017).
In the blockchain, once an element becomes part of the blockchain, it cannot be 
altered, thus providing an indisputable record of past transactions.
Blockchain is open source and thus transparent for everyone; this is an important 
factor of trust, as malicious code cannot be added into it.
For transactions, each user on a blockchain has a blockchain address (a unique 
alphanumeric address), and they can decide to keep it secret or open to others 
(Tapscott and Tapscott 2017), helping them preserve their anonymity. There isn’t 
any centralized financial institution that stores users’ private information (Zheng 
et al. 2018).
Distributed ledgers record transactions automatically and in real time, reducing 
the possibility of fraud (Rennock et al. 2018), where replication among all network 
members allows for each transacting members to check transaction history, and thus 
the blockchain can be managed effectively (Pereira et al. 2019) without the need of 
a third party (Tapscott and Tapscott 2017). This reduces uncertainty, insecurity and 
ambiguity in transactions, among all network participants (Nærland et al. 2017).
In a given blockchain network, a consensus mechanism aims to bring a unified 
agreement on the validation of all transaction records within the network, given the 
absence of a central authority (Chang et al. 2020).
Fig. 2.1 Blockchain is a 
transparent technology 
making it a trusted 
technology. (This photo by 
unknown author is licensed 
under CC BY Creative 
Commons Attribution 3.0 
Unported)
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
21
A main advantage (and main driver) of this trusted self-regulating setup is the 
reduction of transaction costs (Karafiloski and Mishev 2017). This is largely 
because it reduces the need to rely on trusted third parties (Iansiti and Lakhani 
2017), as reliance on a centralized third party for the safety of one’s assets is no 
longer required (Tama et al. 2017). Beyond the decrease of the cost of trading, the 
time for a transaction is also decreased, again because it removes the need of han-
dling by a trusted third party (Staples et al. 2017), using P2P directly instead. This 
is contrasted with the traditional financial environment, where, for example, a com-
mercial bank is responsible for maintaining ledgers and executing transactions 
(Hull et al. 2016) and a central bank is required to verify each transaction (Zheng 
et al. 2018). As with the distributed system, the copy of the ledger is present with 
all its members; thus, the distributed trust offered by blockchain technology 
removes the need of any trusted third party or authority to facilitate, verify or 
approve transactions.
Although so far the majority of applications of blockchain has been for payment 
transactions, beyond that, it is becoming a core technology in the FinTech sector 
(Du et al. 2019) and at the same time extends its potential in further financial, com-
mercial (Underwood 2016) and social contexts. This is because blockchain, by pro-
viding a secure audit trail that cannot be tampered or corrupted, allows people to 
build trust faster and has the potential to change (global) financial infrastructures 
(Pilkington 2016). Thus, blockchain can be used in other various financial services, 
such as digital assets (Peters et al. 2015), as blockchain can assert and manage asset 
ownership and contracts (Mattila 2016).
Further advantages of blockchain are facilitating the automation and streamlin-
ing of processes and removing manual back office labour (Walker et  al. 2016). 
Blockchain technology is resilient, as it is not prone to any sort of major attacks. 
Members in a blockchain network can implement conditions and rules in the form 
of smart contracts (algorithmic programs), where they can automatically execute 
transactions (Tapscott and Tapscott 2017).
Blockchain facilitates validated, tamper-resistant transactions that are consistent 
across the network participants (Beck et al. 2018), maintaining that the database is 
complete, distributed and unalterable (Yoo 2017). Blockchain can give users confi-
dence that no record of transactions has been altered either deliberately (e.g. hack-
ing or fraud) or accidentally (e.g. due to technical fault) (Beck et al. 2018).
The development of blockchain technologies and applications is ongoing and 
still faces challenges until they reach maturity: challenges such as efficiency in min-
ing (the issue of power consumption and the resulting carbon footprint) especially 
when it comes to scalability, as well as issues of privacy and security (where the 
need and question of legal regulation are important challenges (Tu and Meredith 
2015) in order to enhance secure, ethical and smart application).
2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
22
2.1.2  Blockchain and Game Theory
Game theory’s basic philosophy is to study different models of strategic decision- 
making. The aim of the blockchain technology is to motivate anonymous nodes to 
collaborate for the common good of the network. To motivate the nodes to follow 
such decision-making, strategic decision-making must be employed. The goal is to 
design systems so that everyone acting in their own self-interest will help the net-
work instead of being harmful to it. The prisoner’s dilemma game model is an 
appropriate game theoretic model to showcase how this can be achieved.
The prisoner’s dilemma is basically a model of a game, where two players must 
decide whether to cooperate with their opponent or whether to defect from coopera-
tion. Both players make a decision without knowing the decision of their opponent, 
and only after the individual decisions are made, these are revealed. There is a story 
behind the model, which goes something like this:
Two suspects are arrested by the police. Since the policemen have insufficient evidence for 
their conviction, they separate the two suspects and offer them a deal. If one testifies against 
the other, i.e. defects, and the other remains silent, i.e. cooperates, the betrayer goes free, 
and the silent one goes to prison for 10 years. If they both remain silent, they both go to 
prison but only for 6 months on a minor charge. If they both testify against each other, they 
both go to prison for 5 years. Each suspect must choose whether to testify or whether to 
remain silent.
The specific example has several considerations. Mutual cooperation has a reward 
for both of them receiving the least harsh punishment. However, such decision 
entails the risk that in case one of the players defects, then the other player will 
receive the harshest punishment. Given the risk of cooperation, it is very tempting 
to defect because if the opponent cooperates, then defecting will result in the best 
payoff with no punishment. If both defect, the punishment is still not the harshest 
one. The decision-making process is a selfish one. Each player will consider what 
the other player will do. If the other player cooperates, then defecting is the best 
strategy as it will result in no punishment. If the other player defects, then the best 
strategy is to also defect to avoid the harshest punishment. So, given this reasoning, 
both players will defect receiving an average punishment. However, this is not the 
best possible outcome for the game since if they cooperated they would get away 
with the least harsh punishment.
The desirable cooperative behaviour must be somehow motivated so that the 
players’ selfish but rational reasoning results in the cooperative decision. The above 
description of the game is based on a one-shot game model of the prisoner’s 
dilemma, i.e. the players have to decide only once – no previous or future interac-
tion of the two players affects this decision. Cooperation may evolve, however, from 
playing the game repeatedly with the same opponent. This is referred to as the iter-
ated prisoner’s dilemma, which is based on a repeated game model with an unknown 
or infinite number of repetitions. The decisions at such games, which are taken at 
each repetition of the game, are affected by past actions and future expectations, 
resulting in strategies that motivate cooperation. The way motivation may be 
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
23
encouraged in such games will be analysed also with respect to the blockchain con-
text. Remember that the goal when modelling the blockchain interaction is to moti-
vate cooperation, such that selfish nodes make decisions that will help the blockchain 
network.
2.1.2.1  Introducing the Blockchain Scenario
The blockchain technology is basically, as the name implies, a chain of blocks. 
These blocks contain information and represent a digital ledger, where transactions 
are recorded. This ledger is open to anyone and is not kept by an intermediary 
authority, like a bank. With regard to this ledger, note that once data has been 
recorded inside a blockchain, it is quite hard to alter it. The type of data that can be 
stored in any block depends on the type of blockchain. A very popular type of 
blockchain is the bitcoin blockchain, and the type of data stored is transaction 
details, e.g. payment receiver, payment transmitter, number of coins, etc. Blockchain 
uses a peer-to-peer network, and everyone is allowed to join. Once someone joins, 
they get a full copy of the blockchain, which they can validate.
The validation of blocks uses hashes. A hash is the outcome of a hashing algo-
rithm that aims in essentially producing a unique value for any piece of data, which 
can act as its identity. Since hashes cannot be reversed, one cannot reconstruct a 
piece of data from access to its hash. However, since a hash is a unique identity for 
the piece of data that it represents, it can be used to show that a file has not been 
altered or tampered with, by keeping the original hash of a file and regenerating it 
for validation.
In the blockchain environment, what we end up with is a system where every-
one’s history is a series of blocks, also known as a chain, and the blocks may not be 
independent of each other, but each one is validated using hashes. We also have 
miners, which are nodes that are completing the necessary computational work to 
validate these blocks, by working on succeeding in proposing the next valid block. 
Each clock is not only associated with its own hash, which can show if any changes 
to the block have been made, but is also associated with the hash of the previous 
block. This information is part of each block’s header’s metadata. In fact, all blocks 
are made of a header and a body, the body containing a set of transactions.
Therefore, a chain of validated blocks is created, resulting in a secure technology 
option for transactions. Because of this chain of hashes, changing a block in the 
chain will result in changing the block’s hash. Since the next block will have the 
hash of the previous block before the change, if a block is changed, then all subse-
quent blocks are going to become invalid. But what if there is tampering with a 
block and the intruder manages to tamper with subsequent blocks and fix the hashes? 
To mitigate such problems, another defence mechanism that blockchains have is the 
proof of work, which manages to slow down the creation of new blocks (to deter 
intruders from managing to complete changing blocks quickly).
When a new block is created and validated by a miner, the block is sent to every-
one in the network. Then everyone verifies that the block has not been tampered 
2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
24
with. If this is verified, then this block is added on the blockchain. This is achieved 
in a distributed manner, i.e. everyone participating in the blockchain network has a 
copy of the blockchain and adds the validated and verified block on their own copy 
of the blockchain. Overall, the blockchain network participants must have consen-
sus on the validity of a block, e.g. if a block has been tampered with, it will be 
rejected.
Miners in a blockchain network are special nodes on the peer-to-peer network 
that create new blocks by collecting transactions and putting them in the newly cre-
ated block. A valid block carries a reward, but to avoid for one powerful miner 
overtaking the blockchain network, after reaching a preset number of blocks, the 
reward is decreased repeatedly until it becomes zero. Of course, there are other 
incentives to motivate miners to continue creating blocks even when the reward is 
decreased, for example, the transaction fees, which are much smaller than a reward 
but continue to increase in contrast to the decreasing reward.
There are a lot of miners in the blockchain network, and all miners are competing 
with one another as they are all trying to validate blocks and receive rewards. 
However, rewards are only recognized on the longest new chain of blocks to be 
added on the main blockchain. So, there is a competition between the miners that 
has to do with who will first manage to validate the next blocks for the blockchain 
and publish it. For miners to succeed in ending up with the longest chain, they may 
be tempted to hide some aspects of their computational work in order to publish a 
longer chain of blocks which will have priority over other chains. The network par-
ticipants will need to verify the longest chain and the miner will receive the reward.
Therefore, in the process of mining, miners have a choice to be honest or dishon-
est about their progress with the block validation. Consider the blockchain environ-
ment, where miners simultaneously work on validating their blocks and get them 
published on the main blockchain so that they can receive the reward. This system 
can only work if the miners are honest and can share the rewards in the long term.
In order to have the longest chain of blocks, a miner will need to employ a lot of 
computational power. The risk here is for a dishonest miner to acquire dispropor-
tionately large amounts of computational resources in order to alienate the competi-
tion and end up with the longest chain. This would give the specific miner increasing 
power in the network. This should be avoided because this could end up destroying 
the peer-to-peer basis of the network, which should not have any powerful authority 
handling transactions, but the work should be shared among peers.
Game theory will help us understand how such situation can be avoided.
2.1.2.2  The Blockchain Scenario Game
In order to model the blockchain scenario as a game, we need to define the different 
elements of the game model, i.e. the players, the actions available to the players, 
their payoffs from taking these actions, etc.
Consider that the miners are the players of the game. Each one of the miners has 
their own set of transactions that they have mined. Out of their set of transactions, 
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
25
each miner has to decide which of these transactions to include in their block. The 
final decision may have to do with the monetary reward, e.g. deciding to include 
those transactions that carry larger transaction fees. Another decision that a miner 
has to make is to choose which block to mine on top of. Remember that the new 
block has to be added to the main blockchain, so it needs to include the hash of the 
previous block that it will be added to. Once the block is validated, the miner has to 
decide whether to publish the block immediately or withhold it so that a longer 
chain can be created. In this model, all the miners are mining blocks at the same 
time, so they cannot know the length of the chains that competing miners are work-
ing towards, before such chains are published.
In any case, there is a cost that comes with playing the game, which is the cost of 
mining, including the fixed cost of having specialized hardware to be able to mine, 
but also the day-to-day costs of carrying out the work of mining and validating 
blocks. Nevertheless, if a miner manages to publish their block, then the miner will 
receive a block reward. In addition to the block reward, the miner gets the transac-
tion fees from all the transactions that were included in the published block (decided 
by the miner as mentioned above). Therefore, modelling this game must consider a 
payoff of rewards minus costs. A miner would be motivated to play the game only 
if the rewards are larger than the costs.
External factors may also affect the game play, for instance, we may consider 
that this is a network and network latency must be considered as a source of delay 
in finding out about published blocks even if the other miners are honest.
To model this interaction, we are inspired by the prisoner’s dilemma game model, 
where we have cooperation versus defection, and we follow the idea by replacing 
the notion of cooperation with the notion of honesty and the notion of defection 
with the notion of dishonesty.
Let’s consider that we have two miners, m1 and m2, that will be competing in the 
blockchain scenario game, competing on who will be the first to publish and verify 
their block or their chain of blocks. The two miners are working on their blocks 
simultaneously and will make their validated blocks available at timings such that 
they will both be verified at the same time. Both m1 and m2 aim to become richer, 
which can happen from receiving rewards and transaction fees that are larger than 
the costs incurred for mining. Table 2.1 illustrates the game.
The rows in Table 2.1 indicate the actions and payoffs for Miner 1 (m1), whereas 
the columns in the table indicate the actions and payoffs for Miner 2 (m2). The deci-
sion that m1 has to make is to be either honest or dishonest about the new block. 
When m1 is honest, the costs incurred are a fixed amount of costs c for one block 
validation, where c includes both the cost of the mining hardware and the daily use 
of resources needed to support mining. If m2 is also honest, then m1 and m2 will 
Table 2.1 The blockchain scenario game
Miner 2 is honest Miner 2 is dishonest
Miner 1 is honest {(0.5r-c), (0.5r-c)} {(0.2r-c), (0.8r-C)}
Miner 1 is dishonest {(0.8r-C), (0.2r-c)} {(0.5r-C), (0.5r-C)}
2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
26
share success with each other. In the case of mutual honesty, each miner ends up 
receiving the rewards about 50% of the time. If m2 is dishonest, then the cost will 
not change for m1, but the reward will decrease as the dishonest player will receive 
the reward most of the time; we indicate this with a 20–80 split favouring the dis-
honest player. Note that the dishonest player m2 will incur higher costs, C, where C 
> c. The costs will be greater because of the multiple resources that need to be com-
mitted in order for m2 to be able to work on multiple blocks, but we consider that, 
overall, the additional rewards are much more than the additional costs.
Now let’s consider that m1 is dishonest and working on more than one block. 
Then the costs incurred, C, as discussed above, will be greater because of the mul-
tiple resources that need to be committed in order for m1 to be able to work on 
multiple blocks. If m2 is also dishonest, then the two miners will share the reward: 
each miner receiving the reward about 50% of the time. However, the cost incurred 
will be larger this time resulting in an overall payoff that is less than the payoff that 
the two miners would share if they were both honest. In case that m2 is honest, then 
m1 will receive the majority of the reward with an 80–20 split, favouring m1 (but 
still with the increased costs). The behaviour, costs and rewards are also similar for 
m2, represented by the columns in Table  2.1. The payoff tuple in each cell of 
Table 2.1 represents the following values: (payoff for m1, payoff for m2).
In this blockchain scenario game, each miner must consider their options in 
terms of actions and decide on what their strategy is. Considering all possible strate-
gies, a dominant strategy is a strategy that will have the largest payoff no matter how 
other miners behave. In order for the blockchain technology to succeed, the domi-
nant strategy should be one of cooperation between the miners, i.e. decisions and 
actions that are based on honesty, regardless of what everyone else is doing.
Given that what we want to motivate is honest behaviour, even if we cannot 
achieve a dominant strategy of cooperation, we should at least aim for a Nash equi-
librium that motivates honesty. A Nash equilibrium is when none of the players have 
any incentive to change state, no matter what their opponent does.
Let’s return to the model presented in Table 2.1.
When playing a blockchain scenario game, each miner must decide whether to 
be honest or whether to be dishonest, assuming that each miner does not know what 
the other miner will decide. The decision of each miner is based on the following 
reasoning: if m1 or m2 believes that the opponent will be honest, then the best option 
is to be dishonest because even though higher costs will be incurred, the rewards 
will be much higher making up for the costs. By being dishonest while the opponent 
is honest, a player has an opportunity to maximize the payoff. On the other hand, if 
m1 or m2 believes that the opponent will be dishonest, then, the best option will be 
to also be dishonest in order for the rewards to be eventually shared 50–50 (even 
with the increased cost that comes with the dishonest decision). In fact, in the game 
depicted in Table 2.1 , it appears as though being honest will give less payoff while 
being dishonest will give more payoff. Having no other information and being asked 
to make this decision once, the best response strategy for both players is to be 
dishonest.
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
27
However, the blockchain scenario is not just about making one decision for a 
single interaction but in considering the infinite horizon of repeated interactions 
between the miners. In that case, a more accurate model to consider is the iterative 
blockchain scenario game model presented next.
2.1.2.3  The Iterative Blockchain Scenario Game
We have considered the blockchain scenario game where the interacting miners 
must decide whether to be honest or dishonest with their fellow miners. Inspired by 
the prisoner’s dilemma game, we have illustrated a game model that elaborates the 
payoffs from honest and dishonest decisions of miners when simultaneously wait-
ing for the verification of their blocks. We have shown that the game model favours 
dishonesty because the payoffs will be higher for a once-off decision. However, the 
blockchain technology system is an environment that supports continuous interac-
tion and favours repeated simultaneous mining and block publishing. Therefore, we 
will proceed to model a repeated, also known as an iterative, game model for this 
scenario.
An iterative game makes it possible for the miners to consider the continuous 
relationship with other miners and consider the benefits of sharing the rewards hon-
estly in the long run, incurring the least amount of costs. In the game model itself, 
the decisions of the miners consider the complete previous history of their oppo-
nents. This gives the opportunity to the miners interacting multiple times to reward 
each other for honesty or to punish each other for dishonesty.
The strategies that employ such punishments or rewards are called trigger strate-
gies. A trigger strategy is a strategy that changes in the presence of a predefined 
trigger; it dictates that a player must follow one strategy until a certain trigger is 
activated. Once the trigger is activated, then the player will follow a different strat-
egy, for the rest of the game. One of the most popular trigger strategies is the grim 
trigger strategy, which dictates that the player participates in the relationship in a 
cooperative manner, but if dissatisfied for some known reason, then the previously 
cooperating player leaves the relationship forever. Therefore, in the case of our 
example, renewing the honest relationship and, thus, the fruitful interaction between 
miners participating in the iterative blockchain scenario game is contingent upon 
the actions of the miners.
Other than the grim strategy, in cases of such iterative interactions, we may con-
sider other less harsh reactions to a trigger. For instance, another strategy used to 
elicit honest decisions from an opponent is for a player to mimic the actions of his 
opponent, giving the opponent the incentive to play cooperatively, since in this way 
he will be rewarded with a similar mirroring behaviour. This strategy is referred to 
as tit-for-tat strategy. If both miners in our blockchain scenario example decide to 
interact honestly, either using the grim strategy or the tit-for-tat strategy, then none 
of the two players will have an incentive to change their strategy because honesty 
will result in the highest payoffs in the long term. Therefore, we have a Nash equi-
librium between the two miners. The cooperative equilibrium is only motivated 
2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
28
because of the repetition of the interaction and the consideration of future payoffs. 
However, we will need to model the interaction with these strategies to show that 
such interaction between cooperative trigger strategies results in an equilibrium, 
which is a desired solution for the game.
The following section presents in detail the resolution of the iterative blockchain 
scenario game, including any equilibria that may result from the strategies.
Resolution of the Iterative Blockchain Scenario Game
We will model the blockchain scenario game as an iterative game in order to dem-
onstrate an equilibrium solution. We have two miners, m1 and m2, making decisions 
about honesty or dishonesty with regard to their blocks. Both players will make 
their first decision simultaneously, but since the relationship is continuing beyond 
the first stage, both will know whether the opponent was honest or dishonest in that 
first play, and based on that, they can decide how to act in future interactions. Let’s 
assume that m1 decides to be honest. If m2 also decides to be honest, the payoff to 
m2 will be 0.5r−c, where r represents the reward for the block (with probability 0.5) 
and c represents the minimum mining cost incurred. Otherwise, m2 can decide to be 
dishonest with payoff 0.8r−C, where r has a higher probability of 0.8, but the costs 
incurred are also higher and represented by C, where C > c. Simultaneously, the 
payoff to m1 will be 0.5r−c if m2 is honest and 0.2r−c if m2 is dishonest, with the 
same reward r, and costs C and c as previously explained. In the case that m1 is 
dishonest, then if m2 is honest, the payoff to m2 will be 0.2r−c, and the payoff to m1 
will be 0.8r−C. But if m2 decides to also be dishonest, then the payoff to m2 will be 
0.5r−C and to m1, 0.5r−C.
In following interactions, both nodes have the option to continue their behaviour, 
whether this is being honest or being dishonest or to switch behaviours. Let’s con-
sider the grim strategy and the tit-for-tat strategy described previously. The grim 
strategy implies that a game player will cooperate with the opponent but will leave 
the interaction forever if there is any non-cooperative behaviour from the opponent. 
This is not convenient for the iterative blockchain scenario game because the miners 
want to continue mining. So, we will select the tit-for-tat strategy for the miners in 
our game model, as their cooperative strategy. As a reminder, the tit-for-tat strategy 
is a strategy by which a miner is always honest, unless the opponent is dishonest; in 
which case, the honest miner will switch to dishonesty for one round and return 
back to honesty, until such behaviour is detected again. Similarly, we can define a 
corresponding non-cooperative strategy to compare. In fact, the non-cooperative 
strategy will be presented as a counter-option to the tit-for-tat strategy.
Therefore, the analysis of the iterative blockchain scenario game considers the 
interactions between the two miners, where both miner m1, and miner m2 employ 
the tit-for-tat strategy as their cooperative strategy. Note that by the term coopera-
tive strategy, we refer to the miners’ intention to be honest with each other but also 
use a trigger in their strategy as a defence mechanism in case the opponent is 
dishonest.
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
29
To better highlight the benefit of using a cooperative strategy, we will also define 
non-cooperative strategies as alternative options for the two miners to use. We can 
first consider the cheat-and-leave strategy. The cheat-and-leave strategy is defined 
so as to allow the miner employing this the choice to be non-cooperative, dishonest, 
behaviour. With this strategy, the dishonest miner, either m1 or m2, would leave the 
interaction after being dishonest, in order to avoid any future interaction. To avoid 
any future interaction would mean for m1 or m2 to stop mining, which is not desired 
by the miners in any case. Therefore, we will reject the cheat-and-leave strategy as 
an option for the non-cooperative strategy that can be used by the miners.
A better non-cooperative strategy to consider is the cheat-and-return strategy. 
The cheat-and-return strategy is not so strict, as it gives the opportunity to the 
miner, who wants to be dishonest, to initialize dishonest behaviour but not discon-
tinue mining, instead to return back to the interaction to accept the punishment, so 
that the interactions can continue. We will examine the cheat-and-return strategy as 
a strategic option for the two miners and compare the long-term use of a non- 
cooperative strategy to the long-term use of a cooperative strategy, such as the tit- 
for- tat strategy.
Our iterative game model considers a number of repeated interactions with an 
unknown horizon. We will treat this as an infinite repetition model because we can-
not know if or when the last interaction between the miners will take place. The 
payoffs for the game are the summation of payoffs for each round of the game, as 
these are defined in Table 2.1.
Therefore, we must consider and compare different sequences of payoffs, and in 
order to compare such sequences of payoffs in repeated games, we need to use the 
idea of the present value of a payoff sequence to help us quantify the overall payoffs 
from different strategies, e.g. trigger strategies over the whole game. The present 
value is the total payoff that a player is willing to accept currently instead of waiting 
for the future payoff; the present value is based on a discount factor. Basically, a 
player in a repeated game is willing to accept a smaller payoff in the current play 
that would be worth more in the future.
The rate by which the current payoff would increase in the future can be defined 
as α. Therefore, if a player’s payoff in the next iteration were equal to 1, currently, 
the payoff the player would be willing to accept would be equal to 
1
1+α
. Note that 
if there exists a probability that the interaction between the two miners will not 
continue in the next iteration, then we must also introduce this probability into the 
model. Given that there is always the possibility that the two miners will not syn-
chronously publish their blocks in the future, we must admit that such probabil-
ity exists.
Let the probability of no future interaction be equal to p. Given p, the payoff that 
one of the miners is willing to accept currently would be equal to δ = 
1
1
−
+
p
α
, where 
δ ∈ [0, 1] and can also be referred to as the discount factor. Therefore, given a payoff 
X in the next interaction, the present value of the interaction currently is equal to δ · 
X. Now, this only considers the next interaction between the two miners. However, 
2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
30
we want to consider a repeated set of interactions with an unknown horizon, which 
implies that the model should be equivalent to that of an infinite game. Hence, for 
an infinitely repeated game, the present value includes the discounted payoff of all 
future interactions of the game.
Let the payoff from the current interaction between the two miners to be equal to 
1. Then, the additional payoff a miner is willing to accept for the next interaction is 
equal to δ. For the interaction following that, the payoff would be equal to δ∙δ, i.e. 
δ2, then to δ3, to δ4 and so on. Thus, the present value for the complete game is equal 
to 1 + δ + δ2 + δ3 + δ4 + etc. We can use the sum of an infinite geometric series to 
calculate this sum to be equal to 
1
1−δ
. Now, if the payoff is not equal to 1 but to a 
variable X payable at the end of each interaction, then the present value in an infi-
nitely repeated game is equal to 
X
1−δ
. Note that if we were interested in only 
studying a specific number of interactions, the sum for a finite geometric series of n 
repetitions is equal to 
X n· 1
1
−( )
−
δ
δ
.
Given that we are examining an infinitely repeated game, then we must find an 
equilibrium, not just in any one stage of the game, but we must find an equilibrium 
for the game, i.e. a set of strategies that the players follow throughout the game path 
such that when receiving the corresponding payoffs, the players have no incentive 
to change these strategies. When a strategy allows a player to play the best response 
to the opponent’s strategy after every sequence of past actions such that the player 
will receive a higher payoff than any other strategy would give, then we have found 
the subgame perfect strategy. When all players play their subgame perfect strate-
gies, then we have an equilibrium in the repeated game, known as a subgame perfect 
equilibrium.
Let’s investigate the different game profiles. Let the two players, miners m1 and 
m2, have a choice between a cooperative and a non-cooperative strategy, i.e. between 
an honest and a dishonest behaviour. Consider that to demonstrate an honest behav-
iour, both the miners, m1 and m2, can employ the tit-for-tat strategy, and to demon-
strate a dishonest behaviour, m1 and m2 can employ the cheat-and-return strategy. 
Since both miners demonstrate the same behaviour and have the same choices, it is 
sufficient to show that honest behaviour is the best response strategy for any one of 
the players to achieve subgame perfect equilibrium in the game.
Best Response Strategy
Let’s assume a history of cooperative moves in the past from both miners and com-
pute the present value of any future payoffs for one of the two miners at a given 
point in time. Let m1 employ the tit-for-tat strategy. Then, m2 could either employ 
the cheat-and-return strategy, i.e. decide to demonstrate dishonesty, or decide to 
also play the tit-for-tat strategy, i.e. continue to demonstrate honest behaviour.
If m2 decides to be honest, then m1’s present value of the future payoffs equals to:
 
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
31
Thus, the present value of the future payoffs to both m1 and m2 will be 
0 5. r c−
δ1−
 
as a result of this interaction.
Since the tit-for-tat strategy is inherently cooperative, then unless there is any 
dishonest behaviour by any of the players, they will both continue to be honest for 
the entire game. In fact, there will not be any dishonest action because both employ 
the same strategy, which introduces honest actions in every interaction unless pro-
voked; so, there will not be any provocation. The payoff will continue to be the same 
in every interaction, and we can find the present value of the infinite sum of payoffs 
to be as shown above.
If m2 decides to be dishonest and employ the cheat-and-return strategy at any 
interaction of the game, then the payoff to m1 will be different. Let’s calculate the 
corresponding present value for m1, when m2 decides to be dishonest. Note that in 
the first interaction, m1 is honest but m2 is dishonest; therefore, there is only a 0.2 
probability of getting the reward r while still incurring the standard mining costs. 
Once m1 discovers about m2’s dishonesty, the decision is to also exhibit dishonest 
behaviour. Thus, m1 is dishonest in the second interaction as a punishment to m2, 
whereas m2 has returned to cooperative and honest behaviour. This time, m1 has a 
probability of 0.8 of collecting the reward r, but the costs increase to C. From the 
third interaction onwards, they return to honest behaviour.
Thus, if m2 decides to be dishonest, then m1’s present value of the future payoffs 
equals to:
 
Similarly, m2’s present value of the future payoffs will be:
 
0 8 0 2
0 52. .
.
r C r c
r c
−( ) + ⋅ −( ) + ⋅
−
−





δ δ
δ1  
To show that it is worth being dishonest, we must show that the present value of 
the future payoffs that m2 receives when being dishonest is greater than the present 
value of the future payoffs that m2 receives when being honest. Consider the 
following:
  
Solving for δ, we get the following:
 
2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
32
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 . −  
 .  
Therefore, it is a good idea to be dishonest if δ satisfies this inequality because 
that is when the reward will be greater than the cost, given the present value of the 
future payoffs for both honest and dishonest behaviours.
Consider the values −C + c and remember that C > c, which means that −C + c 
returns a negative value. Consequently, 0.3r − C + c is less than 0.3r, and the frac-
tion is less than 1 as expected (if 0.3r − C + c is positive). If the costs are higher than 
a third of the reward, the result will be negative, and since a discount factor cannot 
be negative, then we can conclude that it is never a good idea to be dishonest when 
the costs are higher than a third of the reward (given our probability assumptions 
when modelling the game). If the costs are less, then we get a positive value between 
0 and 1 for δ. Since we are using the summation to find the present value of the 
payoffs, then the closer to one δ is, the higher the present value will be. In our 
example, this will happen if the costs are minimized. However, since mining does 
need to invest in resources and thus it is inevitable to incur specific costs, then our 
model shows that the miners are motivated towards honest behaviour that can give 
the higher payoffs in the duration of a repeated game of interactions, with an 
unknown horizon.
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
33
2.2  Summary and Conclusions
This chapter focuses on financial data, specifically on blockchain, a technology that 
enables cryptocurrency. An example of a popular cryptocurrency that we refer to in 
the chapter is bitcoin. We approach the idea of cryptocurrency more generally as a 
digital payment system that does not rely on banks as intermediary nodes to com-
plete monetary transactions. We investigate the system’s peer-to-peer approach for 
digital payment and how it can enable anyone to send and receive payments.
We recognize that game theoretic philosophy is a core aspect of blockchain 
design, and we propose a model for the process of mining. In the process of mining, 
miners have to create and publish blocks, and within those steps, they can decide to 
be honest or dishonest about their progress with the block validation. In fact, game 
theory has to do with decision-making and motivation for specific decisions, and it 
is important in this particular example because the blockchain system can only be 
effective if there is motivation for the miners to continue participating, in our case, 
when miners are honest and can share the rewards in the long term.
The reason that the system must motivate honesty and cooperation is because a 
dishonest miner risks to acquire a disproportionately large amounts of computa-
tional resources in order to alienate the competition and end up with the longest 
chain of blocks. This would give a single miner increasing power in the blockchain 
network. This should be avoided because this could end up destroying the peer-to- 
peer basis of the network, which should not have any powerful authority handling 
transactions, but the work should be shared among peers.
The game theory model helps us understand how such situation can be avoided, 
by modelling an iterative game between the miners, that makes it possible for min-
ers to consider the continuous relationship with other miners, instead of their own 
egoistic short-term gain. The model motivates consideration of the benefits of shar-
ing the rewards honestly in the long run, incurring the least amount of costs. To 
reinforce the iterative nature of the model, the decisions of the miners are modelled 
to consider the complete previous history of their opponents. This gives the oppor-
tunity to the miners interacting multiple times to reward each other for honesty or to 
punish each other for dishonesty. Since mining does need to invest in resources and 
thus it is inevitable that the miners will incur specific costs, then our model shows 
that the miners are motivated towards honest behaviour.
References
Abramova S, Böhme R (2016) Perceived benefit and risk as multidimensional determinants of 
bitcoin use: a quantitative exploratory study. In: The 37th international conference on informa-
tion systems, 1–20
Aste T, Tasca P, Matteo TD (2017) Blockchain technologies: the foreseeable impact on society and 
industry. Computer 50(9):18–28
References
34
Barrett M, Oborn E, Orlikowski WJ (2016) Creating value in online communities: the socio- material 
configuring of strategy, platform, and stakeholder engagement. Inf Syst Res 27(4):704–723
Beck R, Müller-Bloch C, King JL (2018) Governance in the blockchain economy: a framework 
and research agenda. J Assoc Inf Syst 19(10):1020–1034. https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00518
Chang V, Baudier P, Zhang H, Xu Q, Zhang J, Arami M (2020) How blockchain can impact 
financial services  – the overview, challenges and recommendations from expert interview-
ees. Technol Forecast Soc Chang 158:120166., ISSN 0040-1625. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.
techfore.2020.120166
Chapron G (2017) The environment needs crypt-governance. Nature 545:403–405
DiNizo AM Jr (2018) From Alice to Bob: the patent eligibility of blockchain in a post-CLS bank 
world. 9 Case W. Res. JL Tech. & Internet 1 (2nd), [Online]. Available from: https://scholarly-
commons.law.case.edu/jolti/vol9/iss1/2. Accessed 4 Apr 2020
Du W, Pan SL, Dorothy E, Leidner DE, Yinga W (2019) Affordances, experimentation and actual-
ization of FinTech: a blockchain implementation study. J Strateg Inf Syst 28:50–65
Hull R, Batra VS, Chen YM, Deutsch A, Heath FFT, Vianu V (2016) Towards a shared ledger business 
collaboration language based on data-aware processes. In: Sheng QZ, Stroulia E, Tata S, Bhiri 
S (eds) ICSOC 2016, LNCS, pp 18–36. https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 3- 319- 46295- 0_29936
Iansiti M, Lakhani KR (2017) The truth about blockchain. Harv Bus Rev 95(1):118–127
Karafiloski E, Mishev A (2017) Blockchain solutions for big data challenges: a literature review. 
The 17th international conference on smart technologies (The IEEE EUROCON), 763–768
Kshetri N (2018) 1 blockchain’s roles in meeting key supply chain management objectives. Int J 
Inf Manag 39:80–89
Lindman J, Rossi M, Tuunainen VK (2017) Opportunities and risks of blockchain technologies in 
payments: a research agenda. In: The 50th Hawaii international conference on system sciences, 
1533–1542
Mattila J (2016) The blockchain phenomenon. In: The blockchain phenomenon. Berkeley 
Roundtable of the International Economy. Available at: https://ideas.repec.org/p/rif/wpa-
per/38.html
Nærland K, Müller-Bloch C, Beck R, Palmund S (2017) Blockchain to rule the waves: nascent 
design principles for reducing risk and uncertainty in decentralized environments. The 38th 
International Conference on Information Systems, pp 1–16
Nakamoto S (2008) Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system. https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
Pereira J, Tavalaei MM, Ozalp H (2019) Blockchain-based platforms: decentralized infrastruc-
tures and its boundary conditions. Technol Forecast Soc Change 146:94–102. https://doi.
org/10.1016/j.techfore.2019.04.030
Peters G, Panayi E, Chapelle A (2015) Trends in cryptocurrencies and blockchain technologies: a 
monetary theory and regulation perspective. J Financ Perspect 3(3):1–25
Pilkington M (2016) Blockchain technology: principles and applications. Research handbook on 
digital transformations, chapter 11. https://doi.org/10.4337/9781784717766
Rennock, M-JW, Cohn, A, Butcher JR (2018) Blockchain technology and regulatory investiga-
tions. Pract Law. February/March 2018, pp. 35–44, Litigation
Staples M, Chen S, Falamaki S, Ponomarev A, Rimba P, Tran AB, Weber I, Xu X, Zhu J (2017) 
Risks and opportunities for systems using Blockchain and smart contracts. In: Data61. CSIRO, 
Sydney. https://doi.org/10.4225/08/596e5ab7917bc
Tama BA, Kweka BJ, Park Y, Rhee KH (2017) A critical review of blockchain and its current 
applications. Int Conf Electr Eng Comput Sci 2017:109–113
Tang Y (2018) How fintech changes our live? [Online]. Available from: https://mp.weixin.qq.com/
s/1RdTkI9q4NlMrdxNqQFO2w. Accessed 10 Apr 2022
Tapscott A, Tapscott D (2017) How blockchain is changing finance. Harv Bus Rev. [Online] 
Available from: https://hbr.org/2017/03/how- Blockchain- is- changing- finance. Accessed: 5 
Apr 2020
Tu KV, Meredith MW (2015) Rethinking virtual currency regulation in the bitcoin age. Wash Law 
Rev (Seattle 1962) 90(1):271–347
2 Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00518
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120166
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2020.120166
https://scholarlycommons.law.case.edu/jolti/vol9/iss1/2
https://scholarlycommons.law.case.edu/jolti/vol9/iss1/2
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-46295-0_29936
https://ideas.repec.org/p/rif/wpaper/38.html
https://ideas.repec.org/p/rif/wpaper/38.html
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2019.04.030
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2019.04.030
https://doi.org/10.4337/9781784717766
https://doi.org/10.4225/08/596e5ab7917bc
https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/1RdTkI9q4NlMrdxNqQFO2w
https://mp.weixin.qq.com/s/1RdTkI9q4NlMrdxNqQFO2w
https://hbr.org/2017/03/how-Blockchain-is-changing-finance
35
Underwood S (2016) Blockchain beyond bitcoin. IEEE/ACM Trans Networking 59(11):15–17
Walker MJ, Burton B, Cantara M (2016). Hype cycle for emerging technologies identifies three 
key trends that organizations must track to gain competitive advantage. Gartner. Available at: 
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press- releases/2016- 08- 16- gartners- 2016- hype- cycle- 
for- emerging- technologies- identifies- three- key- trends- that- organizations- must- track- to- gain- c
ompetitive- advantage. Accessed 10 Apr 2022
Wörner D, von Bomhard T, Schreier YP, Bilgeri D (2016) The bitcoin ecosystem: disruption 
beyond financial services? In: The twenty-fourth European conference on information sys-
tems, 1–16
Yoo S (2017) Blockchain based financial case analysis and its implications. Asia Pac J Innov 
Entrep 11(3):312–321. https://doi.org/10.1108/APJIE- 12- 2017- 036
Zheng Z, Xie S, Dai HN, Chen X, Wang H (2018) Blockchain challenges and opportunities: a 
survey. Int J Web Grid Serv 14(4):352–375. https://doi.org/10.1504/IJWGS.2018.095647
References
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2016-08-16-gartners-2016-hype-cycle-for-emerging-technologies-identifies-three-key-trends-that-organizations-must-track-to-gain-competitive-advantage
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2016-08-16-gartners-2016-hype-cycle-for-emerging-technologies-identifies-three-key-trends-that-organizations-must-track-to-gain-competitive-advantage
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2016-08-16-gartners-2016-hype-cycle-for-emerging-technologies-identifies-three-key-trends-that-organizations-must-track-to-gain-competitive-advantage
https://doi.org/10.1108/APJIE-12-2017-036
https://doi.org/10.1504/IJWGS.2018.095647
	Chapter 2: Financial Data, Blockchain, Decision-Making and Quality of Experience
	2.1 Financial Data, Blockchain and Game Theory
	2.1.1 Financial Data and Blockchain
	2.1.2 Blockchain and Game Theory
	2.1.2.1 Introducing the Blockchain Scenario
	2.1.2.2 The Blockchain Scenario Game
	2.1.2.3 The Iterative Blockchain Scenario Game
	Resolution of the Iterative Blockchain Scenario Game
	Best Response Strategy
	2.2 Summary and Conclusions
	References