A Voting Blockchain based Message Dissemination in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs)
A Voting Blockchain based Message Dissemination
in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks (VANETs)
Ferheen Ayaz, Zhengguo Sheng, Daxin Tian†, Guan Yong Liang∗, and Victor Leung‡
Department of Engineering and Design, University of Sussex, UK
† School of Transportation Science and Engineering, Beihang University, China
∗ School of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
‡ Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, University of British Columbia (UBC), Canada
Email: F.Ayaz@sussex.ac.uk
Abstract—Secure message dissemination is an important re-
quirement of intelligent transportation systems (ITS). Existing
solutions, such as broadcasting, are effective in flooding a message
to a wider area, however, they are inherently unreliable and
bandwidth inefficient. Furthermore, it is difficult to both assess
the authenticity of a message and maintain the privacy of sender
in a single solution. Moreover, as a practical solution, there is
a need of economic modeling to incentivise vehicles for safe
driving and cooperation. This paper proposes a blockchain based
message dissemination approach which utilises incentive distri-
bution and reputation management to overcome these challenges.
Specifically, with the proposed voting based consensus algorithm,
it can assess the authenticity of a message and select the most
suitable relay node for its dissemination in a completely de-
centralised fashion. Meanwhile, the blockchain based integrated
incentive and reputation scheme encourages the cooperation
among vehicles and strengthens its ability to deliver authentic
messages. The security capacity of the proposed solution is
demonstrated by a game theoretic analysis. Simulation results
show that the proposed approach can save average consensus
time by 11% and improve success rate of authentic message
dissemination by 17% with less number of hops as compared to
the existing solutions.
Index Terms—blockchain, reputation, incentive, VANET
I. INTRODUCTION
A prominent feature of Intelligent Transportation Systems
(ITS) is using vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communications to
disseminate messages in emergency situations, such as traffic
jam and accident, thereby leading to improved road safety and
driving conditions [1]. It is important for vehicles in Vehicular
Ad-Hoc Network (VANET) to authenticate messages [2].
Moreover, due to increasing privacy concerns, the identity of
a vehicle must not be revealed if it originates or forwards a
message. Although message dissemination, trust management,
privacy and security in VANETs are widely discussed in the
literature [3], [4], there is a need to develop an integrated
approach in which efficient and trusted V2X communications
can be managed without a central authority.
To further maintain the sustainability of message dissemi-
nation, economic modeling is needed to strategise incentives,
encourage cooperation and punish negative behaviour. Gener-
ally, there are two types of incentive strategies: price based and
reputation based. An integrated strategy leveraging advantages
of both price and reputation based schemes is more effective in
encouraging cooperation and detecting malicious behaviour in
Mobile Ad-hoc Networks (MANETs) [5]. Another challenge
associated with message dissemination is broadcasting storm.
It occurs when multiple vehicles send the same message simul-
taneously, which is highly bandwidth inefficient and may result
in packet collision. VANET must be able to select appropriate
relay nodes which can effectively forward a message to a large
number of vehicles [6].
In this paper, we propose a voting based blockchain for
message dissemination to overcome the discussed challenges
in VANET. A blockchain is an encrypted and decentralised
peer to peer system in which transaction data is maintained
in a ledger as immutable timestamped blocks [7]. It is able
to solve issues related to privacy and authentication. The
consensus protocol is the core of a blockchain. It is an
agreement to validate a transaction. Proof-of-Work (PoW)
consensus is known for its high computation cost and large
propagation delay. An alternative of PoW is Proof-of-Stake
(PoS) which selects miner to commit block on the basis of
highest stakes owned. However, it is unfair to other members
in blockchain possessing smaller stakes [8]. Some blockchains
use Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerant (PBFT) protocol which
requires a certain number of votes to validate a transaction
[9]. A novel PBFT protocol known as Yet Another Consensus
(YAC) requires votes for not only transaction validation but
also selection of miner [10]. A comparison of basic consensus
protocols is summarized in Table I, which indicates that PBFT
is the most promising consensus protocol for VANETs.
For vehicular networks, Kang et al., [11] proposes a
blockchain enabled reputation management based on the con-
sensus protocol of PoS where reputation is the stake of
vehicles. The vehicles report their reputation opinions of other
vehicles to a nearby Road Side Unit (RSU). To carry out
consensus protocol, a miner is elected on the basis of highest
reputation. The vehicle is considered malicious if its reputation
value is below a certain threshold. A similar work is presented
by Yang et al., [12] where RSUs store the reputation of
vehicles and maintain blockchain. The consensus is completed
by participating RSUs. In [13], a blockchain of reputation
is managed by each vehicle and messages are authenticated
based upon the sender's reputation. Apart from reputation, Li et
al., [14] proposes a blockchain based incentive announcement
978-1-7281-5089-5/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:37:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I: Performance comparison of consensus protocols
Feature PoW PoS PBFT
Energy saving No Yes Yes
Time saving No Yes Partial
Discriminatory Yesa Yesb No
Example Bitcoin [7] Ethereum(Serenity) [8] Hyperledger [9]
aTowards computational power
bTowards stakes owned
network which uses virtual credits, known as, CreditCoin, as
a reward for forwarding message. Transactions of CreditCoins
are managed by blockchain, whereas VANET communication
is implemented separately. The contributions of this paper are
summarised as follows:
• We propose a blockchain based VANET by economically
modeling an integrated price and reputation based in-
centive strategy for message dissemination. Using game
theory analysis, the proposed strategy is proved to be
secure against malicious vehicle behaviour.
• We design a voting based consensus algorithm for vehi-
cles. Simulation results show that it saves 11% of time in
finalising transactions compared to another voting based
consensus protocol, CreditCoin [14].
• We develop a novel relay selection as a part of the
consensus algorithm. Simulation results show that the
proposed approach improves the success rate of message
dissemination by 17% with less number of hops than the
reputation based blockchain approach [11], [12].
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Sec-
tion II explains the proposed blockchain design. Section III
presents game theoretic analysis of proposed solution. Section
IV includes results and discussion. Section V concludes the
paper.
II. PROPOSED SOLUTION
A. Components Definition
The system components are described as follows.
a) Central Authority (CA): Before joining the
blockchain network, a vehicle needs to be registered
with CA. It assigns a wallet address and a pair of public
and private keys to vehicle for communications and records
its original identity. The role of CA is to grant vehicles an
access to a permissioned blockchain system.
b) Originator (ORG): It is the vehicle which is involved
in an incident and originates a transaction proposal.
c) Transaction Proposal: It is an unendorsed message
sent by ORG including incident details, its location and time.
d) Endorsement: An endorsement is a vote confirm-
ing that a transaction proposal is authentic. A minimum
number of endorsements, Nmin
END, is required to consider a
transaction proposal as an endorsed message.
e) Endorsers at hop i (END(i)): At each hop i, it is
a set of vehicles which vote for a relay node. When i = 0,
END(i) are vehicles adjacent to ORG. They vote for a relay
node and also endorse a transaction proposal, if they have
witnessed the incident.
Fig. 1: Voting based consensus protocol.
f) Relay node at hop i (RLY (i)): It is the vehicle which
forwards an endorsed message. It is mutually selected by
voting of END(i). It is also one of the END(i) and may vote
for itself. It also commits block to record transfer of virtual
credits and reputation updates at each hop i.
g) Credit Wallet: Each vehicle possesses a credit wallet
in which virtual credit is stored.
h) Reputation (Rj): It is a reputation value of vehicle j.
A vehicle is only eligible to endorse a transaction proposal
if Rj > RT , where RT is the reputation threshold.
i) Transmission charge (TC): It is a fee deducted from
a vehicle's credit wallet when it originates or endorses a
transaction proposal or further disseminates an endorsed
message. This fee is deposited to CA. The purpose of
introducing TC is to demotivate vehicles to make a fake
transaction proposal or endorsement, as it is generated
at the expense of their virtual credit.
j) Call compensation (CC): As a compensation of caus-
ing an incident, CC is the amount deducted from the credit
wallet of ORG. It is inversely proportional to RORG.
B. Voting based Consensus Protocol
The proposed consensus protocol based on YAC is il-
lustrated in Fig. 1. When an incident occurs, ORG origi-
nates a transaction proposal. Upon receiving a transaction
proposal, a vehicle j that can confirm the incident becomes
an endorser, i.e. j εEND(0), broadcasts its cryptographically
encrypted signature as a part of endorsement and votes
for a suitable RLY (0), as shown in Algorithm 1. If Nmin
END
endorsements are obtained within the time limit, tmax
END, the
transaction proposal is considered to be an endorsed mes-
sage. Then RLY (0) will further disseminate it and generate
a block. Voting based selection of RLY (i) for i > 0 con-
tinues until it reaches a maximum number of hops, that is,
i > Nmax
HOP or the endorsed message has been disseminated
until a time limit, tmax. It is noted that END(i) need to
send endoresements for a transaction proposal only when
i = 0. At i > 0, END(i) only take part in consensus of
RLY (i) selection, because they already receive an endorsed
message instead of a transaction proposal.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:37:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
C. Relay selection mechanism
END(i) vote for the most appropriate RLY (i) which then
further disseminates an endorsed message. In this work, we
assume that each vehicle j shares its location coordinates,
channel quality parameter, CQj , collision probability, CPj ,
receiving antenna gain, Gr
j , transmitting antenna gain, Gt
j ,
maximum transmitting power, TPj , and transmission range,
TRj , during their regular beacon message exchange. The pa-
rameters of RLY (i) are stored in the blockchain and are reg-
ularly audited by CA to detect and investigate potential fraud
if a vehicle cheats by sending fake parameters. jεEND(i)
computes the quality factor, Qj , from the information received
in beacon messages and determines its own choice of RLY (i)
with the highest Qj , that is,
RLY (i) = index(max(QEND(i))), (1)
and
Qj = α1dfj + α2CQj(1− CPj) +RSSMj . (2)
where j εEND(i), dfj is the distance factor of vehicle j,
RSSMj is the received signal strength matrix, α1 and α2 are
corresponding weights. dfj is defined as follows
dfj =
⎧⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎩
dj,ORG
dmin
HOP
, if dj,ORG ≥ dmin
HOP , i = 0,
dj,RLY (i−1)
dmin
HOP
, if dj,RLY (i−1) ≥ dmin
HOP , i > 0,
0, otherwise,
(3)
where dmin
HOP is the minimum distance a message should be
disseminated per hop to restrict RLY (i) selection outside a
distance limit. CQj and CPj depend upon internal statistical
parameters of medium access control (MAC) as described in
[15]. CQj is defined as follows
CQj =
{
Ns
j
No
j
, if No
j > 0,
0, otherwise.
(4)
where Ns
j is the number of successful transmissions and No
j
is the number of total transmissions in a time window. CPj is
estimated as likelihood of collision occurrence if a message is
forwarded by vehicle j. It is the ratio of accumulated time at
which the channel is occupied, toccj , and a fixed time window,
tw, i.e. CPj =
toccj
tW
. The Received Signal Strength, RSSj ,
as defined in [16], can be calculated from a distance between
locations of vehicle j and j′, where j′ εEND(i), as
RSSj =
Gr
j ×Gt
j × TPj
(4πdj,j′/λ)2
. (5)
where λ is the wavelength used in VANET. The threshold of
received signal strength, RSST , is defined as
RSST =
Gr
j ×Gt
j × TPj
(4π × 0.9054TRj/λ)2
. (6)
The range of antennas is assumed as the circular area of radius
TRj . From [15], it shows that the average distance between
two random mobile nodes in a circular region of radius TRj
Fig. 2: Flowchart of the proposed message dissemination
solution.
is 0.9054·TRj . The purpose of using RSST as a threshold
parameter is to estimate the reliability of connection with
vehicle j. If RSSj ≥ RSST , the connection can success-
fully be maintained for a certain time period. Otherwise, the
connectivity may be lost before completing a voting consensus
[17]. The RSSMj is calculated as
RSSMj =
{
1− RSST
RSSj
, if RSSj ≥ RSST ,
0, RSSj < RSST .
(7)
Algorithm 1 Endorsement
1: if i == 0 & Rj > RT then
2: if validity(transaction proposal) == true then
3: transaction proposal ← sign(END(i))
4: RLY (i) = index(max(QEND(i))) //defined in (1)
5: end if
6: else
7: RLY (i) = index(max(QEND(i)))
8: end if
D. Block generation
After the consensus, RLY (i) is responsible for block gen-
eration. The flow of its actions is displayed in Fig. 2. A block
is generated at each hop to record parameters associated with
QRLY (i), transaction of virtual credits and update in repu-
tation. Each vehicle in the network possesses the distributed
ledger of blocks. Committing of transaction is announced by
RLY (i) to vehicles in its transmission range. Each vehicle is
responsible for updating its blockchain regularly in order to
avoid forks and discrepancies.
1) Distribution of CC: CC is used as a monetary incentive
in the proposed solution. It is divided into two parts with
ratio w1 : w2, where w1 and w2 are corresponding weights
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:37:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3: Simulation map of University of Sussex campus.
Algorithm 2 CC Distribution and Reputation Update
while i ≤ Nmax
HOP + 1 do
2: if i == 0 then
if NEND ≥ Nmin
END then
4: Broadcast(Endorsed message)
Block[w1CC,REND(i), QRLY (i)] //Add block
6: i = i+ 1
else if time elapsed ≥ tmax
END
then
8: Block[RORG, CC]
if NEND > 0 then
10: Block[REND(i)]
end if
12: end if
else if i ≤ Nmax
HOP & time elapsed < tmax then
14: Broadcast(Endorsed message)
Block[REND(i), RRLY (i−1), QRLY (i)]
16: i = i+ 1
else
18: Block[REND(i), RRLY (i−1), QRLY (i), w2CC]
end if
20: end while
to divide the share of CC among END(0) and RLY (i), i =
1, 2, ..., NHOP , respectively. The profit, Pj , of a vehicle j is
Pj =
{
w1CC
Nmin
END
, if j εEND(0),
w2CC
NHOP
, if j = RLY (i).
(8)
As shown in Algorithm 2, transactions for END(i) are
committed as a block at each hop by RLY (i) and transactions
for RLY (i), RLY (i + 1),..., RLY (Nmax
HOP ) are committed
as a block at last hop by RLY (Nmax
HOP + 1). If Nmin
END
endorsements are not obtained for a transaction proposal
until tmax
END, it is considered as fake and CC is transferred
to CA as a penalty to ORG. This penalty is recorded as a
transaction by RLY (i) which is selected by ORG itself while
originating a transaction proposal. No share of CC is paid
to END(0) if a fake transaction proposal is endorsed.
2) Reputation Update: Reputation is affected by the be-
haviour of vehicles. Honest behaviour of END(i) and
RLY (i) is recognised as successful action performed during
message dissemination. Malicious behaviour refers to a fake
transaction proposal initiated by ORG or endorsed by
END(i) and an endorsed message not forwarded by a selfish
RLY (i). If a vehicle j behaves honestly, its reputation is
updated as Rj = Rj + β, where β is the reputation reward.
If it behaves maliciously, then Rj = Rj − γ, where γ is the
reputation penalty.
III. GAME THEORY ANALYSIS
We apply game theory to analyse the performance of
proposed system against collusion of RLY (i), RLY (i +
1),..,RLY (n), where n is the number of colluding relay nodes.
The message dissemination game is described as follows:
a) Players: This game has Nmin
END number of END(0)
and one RLY (i) at each hop i. The number of hops is NHOP .
b) Actions: At each hop i, every player j has two
possible actions, honest (H) and selfish (S). If player j
follows the protocol, it is honest. If it does not take part in
message dissemination, it is selfish. We denote the action of
player j by ACTj . Then ACTj is either H or S.
c) Utilities: Without colluding with its neighbours, the
utility, Uj , at ith hop is
Uj =
{
Pj − TC, if ACTj = H ,
0, otherwise.
(9)
Proposition 1. In the message dissemination game, playing
honest is the best response action of all players if TC < Pj .
Proof: According to (9), if TC > Pj , Uj will be negative.
In that case, the best response action of players is playing
selfishly. Therefore, TC must be set such that the action results
in positive Uj for all players, so that they are motivated to play
honestly.
Theorem 1. CC distribution mechanism is resistant against
the collusion of RLY (i), RLY (i+1),...,RLY (n) if TC ≥ 0.
Proof: Lets consider the case with one conspired RLY (i).
Suppose CG = {RLY (i), RLY (i+ 1)} is a collusion group.
CG forges a bogus path with one additional hop, i.e., ORG →
RLY (i) → RLY (i+1) instead of the most appropriate path,
i.e. ORG → RLY ′(i+1). Let p be the probability with which
RLY (i) encounters and p ε [0, 1], it has a probability of p2 to
encounter both ORG and RLY (i + 1). The expected utility
sum of CG, E(UCG), is
E(UCG) = p2(URLY (i)+URLY (i+1))+(1−p2)(URLY ′(i+1)).
(10)
Since NHOP = 2 in collusion and NHOP ′ = 1 otherwise,
E(UCG) = p2
(
w2CC−2TC
)
+(1−p2)(w2CC−TC), (11)
or,
E(UCG) = w2CC − TC − p2TC. (12)
To avoid collusion of relay nodes, we want E(UCG) ≤
URLY ′(i+1), i.e., w2CC−TC−p2TC ≤ w2CC−TC, which
leads to p2TC ≥ 0. By generalizing cases when n > 2, we
can derive the collusion resistant condition, i.e., pnTC ≥ 0.
Hence, for any p ε [0, 1], we prove that the mechanism is relay
node collusion resistant if TC ≥ 0.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:37:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
(a) Profit of END(0), Pj , ∀ j εEND(0). (b) Profit of RLY (i), Pj , ∀ j = RLY (i). (c) Effect of α1 and α2 on message delivery.
Fig. 4: Setting of simulation parameters.
TABLE II: Simulation Parameters
Parameters Values Parameters Values
Simulation Time 1000 s Protocol IEEE 802.11p
No. of vehicles [50, 200] Encryption SHA-256
Area 12.5 km x 12.5 km Average speed 40 km/hr
tmax
END , tmax 600 ms, 4 s tW 10 s
Nmin
END , Nmax
HOP 3, 6 CC 10/RORG
w1, w2 0.35, 0.65 β, γ 0.1, 0.2
TC 1 Rj [0,1]
RT 0.5 α1 [1, 10]
α2 [1, 4] dmin
HOP 100m
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
In this section, we analyse the performance of our proposed
solution through extensive simulations using OMNeT++ inte-
grated with SUMO (Simulation of Urban Mobility) which can
be seen in Fig. 3. The simulation parameters in Table II are set
so that Proposition 1 holds true regardless of the value of CC.
In our simulations, we have arbitrarily set CC = 10/RORG.
Higher RORG leads to lower amount of CC, thereby resulting
in less Pj . However, it must be ensured that the message
dissemination protocol results in profit gain in credit wallets of
all, despite of deduction of TC. As shown in Fig. 4(a) and Fig.
4(b), w1 > 0.3 and w2 > 0.6 would always result in positive
Pj , irrespective of the value RORG. Therefore, in order to
ensure profit gain, we have set w1 = 0.35 and w2 = 0.65
in simulation. Fig. 4(c) shows percentage of vehicles which
received messages within a specified period of time, tmax,
with respect to α1 and α2, under different traffic densities.
It shows that the selection of α1 and α2 depends upon the
number of vehicles and affects RLY (i) selection defined in
(2). Thus in our simulation, we choose α1 and α2 such that
they achieve maximum reception rate.
Fig. 5 shows the average time consumption per hop over
100 simulation runs. The reputation based blockchain [11],
[12], only allows vehicles with reputation above a certain
threshold to disseminate messages. CreditCoin is a witness-
based blockchain, in which ORG requires a certain number
of witnesses for message authentication [14]. The latency is
increased in this approach because it relies on ORG to wait
for witnesses before generating an announcement packet. On
the contrary, our proposed solution saves an average of 56 ms
(or 11%) of the time consumed as it does not include waiting
time of ORG. Fig. 5 also shows that the reputation based
method takes the least time to complete one hop as it does
Fig. 5: Average time per hop with respect to No. of vehicles.
not involve waiting time for endorsements. However, the
average time increases with raising number of vehicles because
more time is needed to access reputation of a vehicle. In the
proposed approach, the average time decreases with raising
number of vehicles. To support a completely decentralised
message dissemination solution, each vehicle in the reputation
based blockchain has the whole copy of blockchain in order to
find reputation of any vehicle whenever needed. Therefore, the
storage complexity of reputation based blockchain is O(B),
where B is the total number of blocks in a blockchain [18]. On
the other hand, our proposed solution does not require each
vehicle to store the whole copy of blockchain for RLY (i)
selection and message dissemination and therefore its storage
complexity is O(1). In terms of communication, the conven-
tional PBFT requires at least Nmin
END signatures both during
endorsement and committing a block, therefore resulting in
an overall communication complexity of O((Nmin
END)2) [9],
whereas our proposed solution requires Nmin
END signatures only
during endorsement and hence results in communication
complexity of O(Nmin
END).
With 50 vehicles, our solution consumes 522 ms for com-
pleting one consensus. Given the average speed of vehicle is
40 km/hr, it only incurs a moving distance of approximately
5 m, which can be easily mitigated within 300 m coverage
of typical IEEE 802.11p radio. The worst case scenario is
presented in Fig. 6, where low vehicle density, i.e. 50 and 100,
cannot successfully complete a consensus at the speed beyond
100 km/hr and 110 km/hr, respectively, within the time limit
of 600 ms which is used as a delay threshold for message
authentication in VANETs [19]. However, in practice, it is
unlikely that a vehicle can travel with more than 100 km/hr
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:37:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 6: Time consumption per hop
with respect to speed.
Fig. 7: Average distance of RLY (i)
from ORG.
Fig. 8: Success rate in presence of
non-cooperative vehicles.
on a road affected by an incident or traffic jam. Overall, it
shows that the proposed approach is suitable for VANETs,
particularly for high density traffic with lower speed.
Fig. 7 shows average distance of RLY (i) from ORG with
respect to number of hops over 100 simulation runs. An appro-
priate RLY (i) cannot be selected on the basis of its reputation
only. Therefore, we have proposed the selection process as a
part of consensus protocol. It shows that the proposed solution
can be used to propagate message to a longer distance in
less number of hops as compared to the reputation based
approach, because a reputation based blockchain does not
consider position of RLY (i), transmission range and other
channel parameters during consensus. The average difference
between two approaches is 148 m.
Fig. 8 shows average success rate of message dissemination
over 100 simulation runs in presence of non-cooperative vehi-
cles. We have considered non-cooperative vehicles as those
vehicles whose reputation fall below RT . Different to the
reputation based system which does not allow such vehicles
to originate transaction proposals, our consensus algorithm
conducts voting based authentication. The trust among ve-
hicles can still be maintained since a message cannot be
further disseminated without getting Nmin
END endorsements.
Our proposed approach disseminates averagely 17% more
authenticated messages than the reputation based blockchain
approach in presence of non-cooperative nodes.
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have proposed a voting based blockchain
for message dissemination in VANETs. The proposed ap-
proach can save averagely 11% of time in disseminating a
message as compared to other voting based methods. The
integration of relay selection with consensus can improve the
success rate of transmission by 17%. As a trade-off, it requires
more time to generate block. However, latency difference is
negligible with increasing traffic density. The economic model
of integrated price and reputation-based incentive strategy
makes it stronger against collusion attacks, which can be
potentially used to calculate annual road tax. A vehicle which
is involved in less number of incidents would have spent less
credit, leaving higher balance in its credit wallet which can be
redeemed into road tax.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Chen, W. Jin and A. Regan, “Broadcasting safety information in
vehicular networks: issues and approaches,” IEEE Netw., vol. 24, no. 1,
pp. 20-25, Jan./Feb. 2010.
[2] T. Gazdar, A. Belghith, and H. Abutair, “An Enhanced Distributed Trust
Computing Protocol for VANETs,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 380–392,
Oct. 2017.
[3] Y. He, F. Yu, Z. Wei and V. Leung, “Trust management for secure
cognitive radio vehicular ad hoc networks,” Ad Hoc Netw., vol. 86, pp.
154-165, Apr. 2019.
[4] O. Rehman and M. Ould-Khaoua, “A hybrid relay node selection scheme
for message dissemination in VANETs,” Future Gener. Comp. Sy., vol.
93, pp. 1-17, Apr. 2019.
[5] Z. Li and H. Shen, “Game-Theoretic Analysis of Cooperation Incentive
Strategies in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput.,
vol. 11, no. 8, pp. 1287-1303, Aug. 2012.
[6] A. Yanez, S. Cespedes, and J. Rubio-Loyola, “CaSSaM: Context-aware
System for Safety Messages Dissemination in VANETs,” Proc. of IEEE
COLCOM, Colombia, May 2018.
[7] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” 2008.
[Online]. Available: http://www.bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
[8] A. Baliga, “Understanding blockchain consensus models,” Pune, India,
Persistent Syst. Ltd., White Paper, Apr. 2017.
[9] B. Choi, J.-Y. Sohn, D.-J. Han, and J. Moon, “Scalable Network-Coded
PBFT Consensus Algorithm,” Proc. of IEEE International Symposium
on Information Theory, France, Jul. 2019.
[10] F. Muratov, A. Lebedev, N. Iushkevich, B. Nasrulin, and M. Takemiya,
“YAC: BFT Consensus Algorithm for Blockchain,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1809.00554, Sep. 2018.
[11] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, D. Ye, D. I. Kim, and J. Zhao, “Toward
Secure Blockchain-Enabled Internet of Vehicles: Optimizing Consensus
Management Using Reputation and Contract Theory,” IEEE Trans. Veh.
Technol., vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 2906-2920, Mar. 2019.
[12] Z. Yang, K. Yang, L. Lei, K. Zheng, and V. C. M. Leung, “Blockchain-
based Decentralized Trust Management in Vehicular Networks,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 1495-1505, Apr. 2019.
[13] Z. Yang, K. Zheng, K. Yang, and V. C. M. Leung, “A blockchain-
based reputation system for data credibility assessment in vehicular
networks,” Proc. of IEEE 28th Annual International Symposium on
PIMRC, Canada, Oct. 2017.
[14] L. Li, J. Liu, L. Cheng, S. Qiu, W. Wang, X. Zhang, and Z. Zhang,
“CreditCoin: A Privacy-Preserving Blockchain-Based Incentive An-
nouncement Network for Communications of Smart Vehicles,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2204-2220, Jan 2018.
[15] C. Iza-Paredes, A. Mezher, M. A. Igartua, and J. Forné, “Game-
Theoretical Design of an Adaptive Distributed Dissemination Protocol
for VANETs,” Sensors, vol. 18, no. 1, Jan. 2018.
[16] S. Chatterjee and S. Das, “Ant colony optimization based enhanced
dynamic source routing algorithm for mobile Ad-hoc network,” Inform.
Sciences, vol. 295, pp. 67-90, Feb. 2015.
[17] C. Bettstetter, H. Hartenstein, and X. Pérez-Costa, “Stochastic Properties
of the Random Waypoint Mobility Model,” Wirel. Netw., vol. 10, no. 5,
pp. 555-567, Sep. 2004.
[18] A. Ahmad, M. Saad, L. Njilla, C. Kamhoua, M. Bassiouni, and A.
Mohaisen, “BlockTrail: A Scalable Multichain Solution for Blockchain-
Based Audit Trails,” Proc. of IEEE ICC, China, Jul. 2019.
[19] J. Shao, X. Lin, R. Lu, and C. Zuo, “A threshold anonymous authenti-
cation protocol for VANETs,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 65, no.
3, pp. 1711-1720, Mar. 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:37:59 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.