Is there a market for trusted car data?
RESEARCH PAPER
Is there a market for trusted car data?
Ingrid Bauer1 & Liudmila Zavolokina1 & Gerhard Schwabe1
Received: 30 November 2018 /Accepted: 28 August 2019
# Institute of Applied Informatics at University of Leipzig 2019
Abstract
The used-car trade is characterized by information asymmetries between buyers and sellers leading to uncertainty and distrust,
thus causing market inefficiencies. Prior research has shown that blockchain offers a solution: a transparent, trustworthy and
verified car history that addresses these issues in the market for ‘lemons’. Yet, whether or not there really is a market for trusted
car data remains an open question. In particular, it is unclear if trusted car data increases transparency in themarket for lemons and
how market participants value increased transparency. Hence, through a market game with 50 participants, we explored the
effects of trusted car data on the sales price of the cars, and the relative revenue of buyers and sellers. Additionally, we conducted
interviews with the participants to elicit the perceived customer value. The results show that blockchain enables an increase in
transparency and creates value for both buyers and sellers.
Keywords Blockchain .Market for lemons . Value creation . Data and information products . Data-driven businessmodels
JEL classification O33 . O39 . D82
Introduction
Information asymmetries and the lack of trust between buyers
and sellers are prevailing today’s used-car market (Akerlof
1970). Sellers havemore information about the quality of their
cars than buyers (Levin 2001). Hence, the lack of information
- or an asymmetric distribution of information, resulting in the
problem of products’ quality uncertainty - causes market
inefficiencies (Akerlof 1970). On the broader macro level, this
leads to bad products driving out good products – the adverse
selection problem – or it forces sellers to sell peaches for
peanuts due to their inability to prove the quality of the car.
From the perspective of buyers, the less-informed party, they
bear the risk of buying a lemon, since the market will average
the value of the peaches and lemons resulting in an average
market price (ppeach > pavg > plemon). Besides market ineffi-
ciencies, at the micro level, buyers and sellers struggle with
inefficiencies during the sales process that result from quality
uncertainty and a lack of trust (Bond 1982). To resolve infor-
mation gaps and to help deal with quality uncertainty, institu-
tions have developed measures like guaranties, brand-names
that signal quality, or licensing models (Akerlof 1970).
Additionally, buyers and sellers can apply their own individ-
ual strategies, such as requesting specialist check-ups, or
browsing reviews and specialist magazines, use price signal-
ing (Wolinsky 1983) . However, these strategies are costly and
time consuming. On the one hand, they are costly for the
individual who bears the individual expenses of the effort to
assimilate the quality. On the other hand, these strategies are
inefficient from a market perspective, since these efforts are
multiplied by the number of prospects. Again, the lack of trust
between strangers about data validity and reliability makes it
hard to share personally gathered information about the qual-
ity of an offer with another prospect. These issues are also
This article is part of the Topical Collection on Potential and Limits of
Blockchain Technology for Networked Businesses
Responsible Editor: Johan Versendaal
Electronic supplementary material The online version of this article
(https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-019-00368-5 ) contains supplementary
material, which is available to authorized users.
* Ingrid Bauer
bauer@ifi.uzh.ch
Liudmila Zavolokina
zavolokina@ifi.uzh.ch
Gerhard Schwabe
schwabe@ifi.uzh.ch
1 Department of Informatics, Information Management Research
Group, University of Zurich, Binzmuehlestrasse 14,
8050 Zurich, Switzerland
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-019-00368-5
/ Published online: 13 September 2019
Electronic Markets (2020) 30:211–225
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/s12525-019-00368-5&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8837-790X
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-019-00368-5
mailto:bauer@ifi.uzh.ch
reflected in practice. In Germany, for example, a consumer
study ranked the automotive market among the top three mar-
kets with the least trust (Lades 2017). In the EU, the odometer
is estimated to be rolled back on up to 50% of the traded used
cars. This leads to fraudulent increases in the cars’ prices by
€2000 - €5000 on average and overall fraud costs for cus-
tomers and businesses of €5.6 - €9.6 billion a year
(European Parliament 2018). Besides the relevance of this
problem for economics research, the resolution of information
asymmetries through the application of information systems is
also gaining interest from Information Systems research.
Blockchain, also referred to as “the trust machine” (The
Economist 2015), has often been argued to possess the poten-
tial to disrupt and reshape key economic principles and, with
that, market structures and business models. The most pre-
dominant example is probably Bitcoin, the first entirely
decentralized cryptocurrency, that is claimed to have the po-
tential to disrupt the role of financial intermediaries
(Nakamoto 2009). Acting as a transparent, trust-free and se-
cure transaction system, researchers further argue the potential
of blockchain to reduce transaction costs drastically and en-
able decentralized asset management systems that would
greatly benefit current large and costly supply chain systems
(Naerland et al. 2017), and also small but high-scale coffee-
shop payment solutions (Beck et al. 2016). Finally, the
technology’s key characteristics of decentralization and trust
(Seebacher and Schüritz 2017) have also shown to reduce
information asymmetries and mitigate adverse selection ef-
fects in the market for lemons (Notheisen et al. 2017a).
Notheisen et al. ( 2017a), for example, proposed a
blockchain-based information system that enables the creation
of a transparent, trustworthy and verified record of a car.
Bridging both ends, on the one hand, prior research and prac-
tice clearly show the issues prevailing the used-car mar-
ket, today, while on the other hand, studies show that
blockchain can offer a technological solution to these
problems. However, how the market for used cars will
react to the introduction of a blockchain-based informa-
tion system that provides trusted car data, and what
effect it will have on the market, particularly how the
individual user groups (buyers and sellers) will value
such a system, are open question for both academia
and practice (Notheisen et al. 2017a; Notheisen et al.
2017b). Motivated by the enormous potential in the used-car
market and the promises of blockchain technology, we raise
the following research questions:
RQ: What is the role of blockchain for trusted car data in
the market for lemons?
RQ1: Can we increase transparency in the used-car mar-
ket through trusted car data?
RQ2: How do market participants value trusted car
data?
In this paper, we review prior research and show how IS
research propose the technical potential of blockchain as an
enabler for providing trusted car data to address the problems
of information asymmetry in the market for lemon. Next, we
take this view a step deeper and put the IT artifact into the
context of economic applications. Through an exploratory
market game, we analyze (1) the effect of trusted car data on
market transparency, as well as (2) the value of increased
transparency for individual user-groups (buyers and sellers).
Following prior studies, for this research by market transpar-
ency we mean and refer to the level of opaque product quality
on the market (Akerlof 1970; Granados et al. 2006; Stahl and
Strausz 2017). More specifically, according to Granados et al.
(Granados et al. 2006, p.3) the concept of market transparency
includes “the accuracy and completeness of market informa-
tion, in addition to the level of bias” .
All in all, we respond to the calls of prior IS research and
contribute with an exploratory analysis of the technology at
agent level (Notheisen et al. 2017b). Further, we support used-
car market designers trying to understand the potential of
blockchain technology in light of uncertainty in its market
potential, acceptance and customer value. Businesses question
who the potential customers will be and what each user group
(seller and buyer) values from such a blockchain-based solu-
tion. In general, we shed light on the market potential of
trusted car data. The remainder of this paper is structured as
follows. The related work section introduces the economics of
the used-car market today that also serves as the basis for the
design of our market game. Further, we summarize current IS
research that addresses the problems in the market for lemons
and introduces the key constructs our research builds on. In
section 3, we describe the applied methods for our quantitative
and qualitative analysis. Section 4 then presents the results
and, in section 5, we discuss what the results mean for the
potential of a market for trusted car data. Section 6 concludes
the paper by summarizing the results, highlighting the limita-
tions, and giving an outlook for future research.
Related work
Economics in today’s market for lemons
In his seminal work “Market for Lemons”, Akerlof (1970)
exemplifies the problems of quality uncertainty resulting from
an asymmetric distribution of information in the used-car mar-
ket. Used cars that are traded between buyers and sellers vary
in their quality, but only the seller possesses enough informa-
tion to truly assess the product’s quality. Due to a lack of
reliable information in the market, potential buyers can only
apply heuristic approaches like statistical estimates or evalua-
tion of price signals in order to assimilate the product’s quality
(Wolinsky 1983). Yet, residual uncertainty remains, and since
I. Bauer et al. 212
buyers have little chance to tell the difference between “good”
cars (peaches) and “bad” cars (lemons), equilibrium prices
even out and reflect the average quality of all cars on the
market (Wilson 1980). In this equilibrium, sellers of lemons
earn informational rents that are as high as the difference be-
tween the market price and the cars’ actual value. Sellers of
peaches pay negative rents since the actual value of their cars
is higher than the average market price (Wilson 1980).
Equilibrium prices are not only an effect caused by buyers’
fears of dishonest sellers, but also the result of honest sellers’
inability to prove the good quality of their cars (Pavlou and
Dimoka 2008). This not only causes unfairness and inefficien-
cies for individual buyers and sellers but also sets wrong in-
centives, eventually resulting in the so-called adverse
selection effect at the macro level. Drawing on Graham’s
Law, Akerlof (1970) argues that lemons tend to drive out
peaches because sellers of good cars bear the costs of equilib-
rium prices, thus have no incentives to enter the market. He
further argues that in a continuous world - a cascading effect -
would come into play where marginally lower quality cars
would drive out marginally better ones until the extreme case
of a market collapse because neither demand nor supply is left.
However, despite information asymmetries and negative
rents, in reality, a substantial trading volume remains
(Peterson and Schneider 2014). This might be due to
counteracting measures mostly provided by institutions.
Such measures include guaranties, licensing and certificates
to signal product quality (Akerlof 1970; Genesove 1993). This
measure enables the hedging of risks to a certain degree.
However, inefficiencies and quality uncertainty still remain
(Bond 1982). Additionally, these measures are often costly
and time-consuming, and sellers may sometimes overinvest
in signaling (Akerlof 1976; Bond 1982).
Reponses from IS research addressing the market
for lemons
Rising from and mainly discussed in the field of economics,
the problems associated with the ‘market for lemons’ have
gained increasing attention in information systems (IS) re-
search as well. With the advent of online markets, researchers
started analyzing how the problems of information
asymmetries and adverse selection are reflected in online mar-
kets (Dimoka et al. 2012; Dimoka and Pavlou 2006; Huston
and Spencer 2002; Lewis 2011; Pavlou and Dimoka 2008).
While they argue that uncertainty about product quality in-
creases in online markets due to the inability to physically
evaluate the products’ quality - resulting in “cyber lemons”
(Huston and Spencer 2002) - they also position product un-
certainty as an information problem that can be mitigated with
IT-enabled solutions and hence reduce product uncertainty in
online markets (Dimoka et al. 2012). One such example
Dimoka et al. (2012) provide is the use of online vehicle
history reports like CARFAX or Autocheck in the US, or
Eurotax or Carpass in Europe. The German online advisor
‘Motor Talk’ says that cars with good history documentation
can be sold, on average, for € 2800more than cars without any
history record (Bergander 2017). However, reasons why such
systems have not been widely adopted yet might be the lack of
trust towards one single provider and, relating thereto, the lack
of trust in data quality, inconsistency and incompleteness of a
central registry, and high costs that do not justify the benefits
(Notheisen et al. 2017a; Zavolokina et al. 2018a). Since the
advent of blockchain, a technology that by design is expected
to provide an infrastructure for truly decentralizedmarkets and
create transparency and trust in transactions (Avital et al.
2016), IS offers another technical approach to address the
problems. Thus, researchers started exploring the potential
of the blockchain technology in today’s used-car market.
Analyzing the blockchain infrastructure, (Notheisen et al.
2017a) provide a first technical approach that shows how
blockchain can reduce transaction risk through the irrevers-
ibility of transaction and by replacing a centralized register
with a decentralized autonomous alternative. They build on
the Danish Motor Registry and develop a prototype of a
blockchain-based transaction system running on Ethereum,
where users can invoke smart contracts to register and trade
vehicles securely on the DMR marketplace. Besides this
design science approach, Brousmiche et al. (2018) also pres-
ent a similar technical infrastructure of a blockchain system.
However, they focus on the secure sharing of vehicle data
across multiple stakeholders like car manufacturers, insurance
companies and private car owners. Zavolokina et al. (2018a)
take a top-down approach and specifically evaluate the
buyer’s perspective. They argue that key problems buyers
currently face during information seeking are: (1) the uncer-
tainty about information quality from a single source, (2) the
uncertainty of information quality with respect to complete-
ness and correctness, and (3) the costs of information seeking.
Addressing the buyers’ needs, they formulate requirements for
a blockchain-based system to fulfill the promise of the tech-
nology, contributing to current blockchain research in the mar-
ket for lemons by taking deeper view of the application infra-
structure. One major issue all researchers point out, is the issue
of data quality. A blockchain-based vehicle record is only as
good as the data that is in it. Blockchain can ensure the integ-
rity of transactions but not the quality of input data.
Addressing this issue, Zavolokina et al. (2018b) propose in-
centive system features for a blockchain-based digital car cer-
tificate. Taking a more applicational view, they provide spec-
ifications for features to govern different organizations in such
a system and incentivize good data quality. Again addressing
the topic of governance, Ziolkowski et al. (2018) study the
impact of blockchain governance for inter-organizational co-
ordination. Finally, from a business perspective, there has
been study regarding how such a blockchain-based IT artifact
Is there a market for trusted car data? 213
for the car ecosystem should be designed to allow businesses
to profit and leverage current development expenses (Bauer
et al. 2018). Despite the increasing research interest in this
topic form a variety of perspectives (infrastructural,
applicational governance and business), nothing is known
about the impact of such a system on markets and market
participants. However, since a system is only worth as much
as it is used and valued by its customers, we acknowledge
prior research and build on the calls that emphasize the need
to explore the effects the technology has on markets and
agents (Notheisen et al. 2017b).
Besides these use-case oriented approaches, IS research, in
general, evaluated the impact of IT (especially with the advent
of the internet and with that the emergence of electronic mar-
kets) on market information, transparency and market struc-
ture (Granados et al. 2006). Based on the electronic markets
hypothesis, which argues that IT reduces coordination costs
leading to new markets and proliferation of existing ones
(Malone et al. 1987), Granados et al. (2006) proposed a uni-
fied framework that explains how IT facilitates or inhibits the
emergence of transparent electronic markets. In short, they
argue that IT alone does not lead to increased transparency
through electronic markets, rather that the enhancement
through an electronic representation of products as well as
competitive and institutional forces also play an important
role. Thus, focusing on the effects of enhanced electronic rep-
resentation of physical goods of high value (cars), we evaluate
whether trusted car data from a blockchain-based system can
have similar effects and increase transparency even further
than the advent of the internet did, enabling further market
proliferation or even opening avenues for new markets.
Blockchain and trusted car data
Taking a deeper view at the infrastructure layer, blockchain, in
simple terms, is defined as a decentralized database that is
shared among a network of users who can transact publicly
and pseudonymously without the need of a central intermedi-
ary (Glaser 2017; Risius and Spohrer 2017). More specifical-
ly, the distributed ledger processes transactional data accord-
ing to a decentralized consensus mechanism and stores veri-
fied transactions in cryptographically interconnected data
blocks. If the majority of the network participants agree to
the validity of the database update, a decentralized time
stamping algorithm concatenates the new blocks with the
existing chain of blocks. Thus, a shared view of the state of
the system is ensured at any point in time (Gipp et al. 2015). In
addition to the advantages of decentralized record keeping,
blockchain technology enables collection of data from multi-
ple independent parties and creates a comprehensive and im-
mutable record history. This intrinsically valid history of trans-
actions facilitates trust among the network participants and the
integrity of the shared ledger (Seebacher and Schüritz 2017).
Finally, such a trusted social network (Chen et al. 2018)
avoids single points of failure (Böhme et al. 2015), enables a
consistent and complete record history (Hawlitschek et al.
2018) and enables trusted data provenance (Liang et al.
2017; Shrier et al. 2016). In sum, these key characteristics of
blockchain enable multiple, eventually also competing partic-
ipants, to collaborate and jointly create a comprehensive led-
ger of trusted car data.
Methods
DSR using experimental techniques to explore
and evaluate
To study the phenomena of interest, we conducted an experi-
mental market game in the course of an ongoing larger Design
Science Research (DSR) project, the cardossier project. DSR
originates from computer and engineering science and essen-
tially focuses on solving problems with practical relevance
through the design of novel IT artifacts (Hevner et al. 2004;
March and Smith 1995). The specific problem our research
focuses on is the lack of transparency in the market for
lemons. Thus, the rationale for the design science approach
is explained by the problem-centered initiation (Peffers et al.
2007) that we aim to address through trusted car data, provid-
ed by the cardossier as our IT artifact. The cardossier is a
blockchain-based system that aims to collect, maintain and
access car-related data from multiple relevant stakeholders in
the car ecosystem (an importer and retailer, a road-traffic au-
thority, an insurance company, and a car-sharing company) in
order to create a complete car record. This is also in line with
the DSR guidelines of Hevner et al. (2004), who argue that
DSR must produce a viable artifact (Guideline 1), and that the
objective of design-science research is the provision of a
technology-based solution to the relevant problem
(Guideline 2). Furthermore, the cardossier project follows
the three closely related cycles (relevance, design, rigor)
(Hevner 2007). For example, it utilizes the concepts intro-
duced in the literature section earlier and is now close to
finishing the first minimum viable product. Thus, the
cardossier project is currently in the design cycle, aiming to
explore and evaluate the IT artifact in the environment (Beck
et al. 2013). For this purpose, we used experimental tech-
niques in the form of a market game. Experimental techniques
can be used to test the validity of theoretical models, but also
to discover and describe phenomena and their correlations in
the course of an exploratory research (Stebbins 2001). The use
of experimental techniques within DSR research enable the
measurement of an outcome that the designer wants to achieve
with the IT artifact (Briggs and Schwabe 2011). With this
market game we simulate the used-car market, thus enabling
the exploration and evaluation of our artifact’s effect on agents
I. Bauer et al. 214
in the solution domain (Hevner 2007). Furthermore, testing
our IT artifact in an early development phase enables us to
avoid unfit design and minimize design costs (through late
changes that require larger efforts due to dependencies). In
what follows, we will first introduce the experiment setting,
including the game design, as well as the integration of trusted
car data provided by the cardossier and finally explain how
both qualitative as well as quantitative data analysis was done.
Market game settings
Game design
Our market game is a web-based application1 that is designed
as an online market place for used cars (similar to
Autoscout24 in Europe or cars.com in the US), which we
called Gooo (Fig. 1).
Despite the international relevance of the market for
lemons phenomena and the global reach of blockchain, for
this study we focused on the Swiss market. One reason for
this is the significant differences in the used-car markets of
different countries (European Comission - Justice and
Consumers 2014). Thus, simulating the Swiss used-car mar-
ket, we relied on local studies to design the market as realis-
tically as possible. On Gooo, users participate in two game
rounds: a traditional round (traditional) that simulates the
used-car market as it is today, and a blockchain-based round
(cardossier) where trusted car data from the cardossier is in-
troduced. In both game rounds, actors’ key objectives were to
buy or sell used cars for which they had 30 min in both set-
tings. In both rounds, we ensured an equal number of car
sellers and buyers - with 25 actors in each group - and the
same number of available cars on the market. To enable com-
parability between the two game rounds, the same cars were
used in both settings. However, to counteract the learning
effect, the cars were mixed up between the sellers. The cars
in the game were real cars currently offered on real online
markets. However, we ensured that all fell in a similar range
(e.g., only small, used passenger cars priced in a range be-
tween USD2 10′000 and 12′500). Onto reflect the real used-
car market, cars in our market game differed in quality and,
based on prior research, we ensured that approximately 25%
of the second-hand cars were lemons. The roles were random-
ly assigned among the participants and in case a user got
assigned the role of the buyer, they also got randomly assigned
a used-car. To enable value exchange, sellers received a bud-
get of USD 17.000 (see upper right corner of screenshot 1 in
Fig. 1), enough to buy all available cars on the game market.
Since the value of the cars varied within a certain range (USD
10′000–12′500), both actor groups (buyers and sellers) were
incentivized to maximize their relative revenue from the trade.
This way, we ensured that sellers were free in their choice
between a more expensive or a cheaper car and all buyers
had the same chance to maximize their profit. In other words,
whether a participant bought an expensive or a cheap car was
less crucial than the ratio between the sales price and the actual
value of the car. The relative revenue was evaluated on the
basis of the actual value of the car compared to the sales price
for which the car was finally traded. During the secondmarket
game, the cardossier round, trusted car data from the
cardossier was introduced. Thus, in addition, the expenses
for information costs and the information revenue (for sellers
only) were accounted in the relative revenues. Table 1 gives an
overview of key terms used in the market game, their meaning
and explains the source of the information and calculation
methods.
Trusted car data from the cardossier
Prior to the cardossier market game, the participants were
briefly introduced to the cardossier as a blockchain based sys-
tem that creates and maintains trusted car data for each car on
the market. As shown in Fig. 2, users had the chance to either
buy a full cardossier (including both raw data and analysis), or
only data and/or analysis from three different information cat-
egories: (1) Vehicle data, (2) Repair and Service, (3) Driver
Dynamics. Raw data only showed the verified data entry, e.g.
Mileage: “500′000 km” or Accident History: “No entries”.
Analysis represented the evaluation and a recommendation
of the data: e.g. highmileage wear: “-10%” frommarket price.
The analysis for each car was automatically calculated accord-
ing to the same standard assessment table that was used for the
approximation the actual value. The prices for the information
products were again based on prior research and discusses
with industries experts. While buyers had to pays for all kind
of information products, sellers had free access to their own
data but they had to pay for analysis.
Data collection and analysis
The market game was conducted in June 2018, at a Swiss
university, and overall 50 students participated in both game
rounds. For the study all students of an IS lecture class were
invited to participate and incentivised by the possibility to earn
bonus points. The selected IS lecture class is a mandatory
class for all IS bachelor students in their 2nd year. The reli-
ability of the use of students as study object can be justified by
1 Within the cardossier architecture (Appendix 1) it is a web-app that we
deployed for the experimental game. However, the core corda-platform was
simulated using a central database. This is because for our experiment the data
gathering and data management were not relevant. Yet, the data we offered
through our cardossier App conform to those that will be provided via the real
cardossier core.
2 Throughout our study all prices were shown and calculated in CHF to make
it more understandable for the Swiss study group, that we used. However, to
make it more relatable for a broader public throughout the paper we have
converted all prices in USD (Exchange rate as of the 4th of July, 2019).
Is there a market for trusted car data? 215
http://cars.com
a comparative study conducted by Höst et al. (2000).
According to them differences between the use of profes-
sionals and. Students as study subject in lead-time impact
assessment are minor. Besides that, to justify the sufficiency
of their background and knowledge, prior to the two rounds, the
participants answered a questionnaire. From this we identified
that our experiment included 20% female students and 80%
male students. Two-thirds of the participants considered them-
selves to have ‘good to expert’ knowledge within the used-car
trade. Besides that, one-third indicated that they had already
participated in the sale of a used car. Furthermore, 80% indicat-
ed that they had driver’s licences and 30% stated that they
already own their own car. For the results presented below,
the final achievement (e.g. sales price or relative revenue) that
the participants attained during both game rounds, as well as the
log-file (e.g. data purchases) were analysed individually and
compared between the two game rounds. In the quantitative
data analysis, 45 of the students also participated in an inter-
view (lasting on average 30 mins) that was conducted either
directly after, or within the time frame of 1 week after the
experiment. The interviews were conducted in a semi-
structured manner (Myers and Newman 2007), they were re-
corded and later transcribed and analysed with qualitative data
analysis software. The code units were phrases, sentences and
paragraphs (Weber 1990) for which an open coding process
was used (Saldaña 2009). To ensure internal validity and
inter-coder reliability, two of the authors cross-checked the
codebook.
Furthermore, the design of the study had to make certain
trade-offs in terms of internal and external validity. While con-
trolled settings do not improve external validity, they allow for
more fine-granular observations of the study participants.
Table 1 Overview of key terms and sources of information
Term Description Source
Actual Value (AV) The value of a car that a well-informed
user would assign to it.
Calculated on the basis of all available information about
the car and according to a standard assessment table
provided by a leading car importer in Switzerlanda
Market Price (MP) The average price of a car of a certain class. Based on research of real car prices currently available
on AutoScout24.ch or AutoRicardo.ch.
Sales Price (SP) The price at which the car is finally traded. Extracted from our database after the market game.
Information Costs (IC) Money users spent on trusted car data
from the cardossier.
Priced according to similar assessment tools and car
reports currently available in Switzerland. The prices
for trusted car data ranged between USD 20 and USD
100 depending on the selected category and amount.
Information Revenue (IR) Revenue sellers received for selling
the data about their car to potential buyers.
Sellers received a portion of the money that buyers spent
on trusted car data, from the cardossier. The proportion
distribution between seller and the cardossier was as follows:
Raw data (70:30); Analysis (0:100)
Relative Revenue (RR) The measure for the evaluation of
users’ achievements.
Extracted from our database after the market game and
calculated as follows:
RRBuyer ¼ AV−SP−ICð Þ
AV ; RRSeller ¼ SPþIRð Þ− AVþICð Þð Þ
AV
aWe acknowledge the fact that different assessment methods would yield different values. Our evaluation is one estimate that relies on the most common
method used in the simulated market and was applied consistently. The assessment table considers different variables and relatively accounts their effect
on the actual value of the car.
Fig. 1 Overview-page for the Online Marketplace Gooo and communication space for users
I. Bauer et al. 216
However, we did our best in designing the used-car market-
place as near to the real one as it was possible: the visual design
of it was taken over from a real used-car platform.We acknowl-
edge that truly externally valid results should be obtained from
the integration of the cardossier with a real marketplace. We
leave this for our future work. What for internal validity, we
should admit that we used convenience sampling to pick up
participants of a whole course instead of recruiting completely
random participants. However, we controlled for randomiza-
tion of assignment of roles and cars in the experimental settings
to avoid any systematic bias. Furthermore, we triangulated both
quantitative (log files) and qualitative (interview results) data to
make sure that we do not misinterpret the obtained results. To
control for construct validity, we used an established instru-
ment, proposed by Granados et al. (2006) to measure market
transparency. In our study we measure market transparency as
the deviation of the sales price to the actual value.
Results
In what follows, we first present the results of the quantitative
analysis. These results evidence the effects of trusted car data
on market transparency in the used-car market, from the point
of view of both (1) the market and (2) the agent. Second, we
present the results from the qualitative analysis, where we
elicited how market participants (buyers and sellers) value
trusted car data.
Effects of trusted car data
Market view
As a point of reference for measuring the effects of trusted car
data at market-level, we took the sale price and the actual
value of the used cars and compared how much the cars were
traded for on both markets (traditional and cardossier). As
mentioned earlier, the only variable that changed between
the two rounds was the availability of trusted car data in the
cardossier market. In short, the results yielded (1) an increase
in market value of the cars sold on the cardossier market
compared to the traditional market. More specifically, the cars
were sold at a higher price with the availability of the IT
artifact than without. Furthermore, comparing the sales price
to the actual value of the cars showed that (2) the cars were
sold at close to their actual value in the market where
cardossier was available. Table 2 summarizes the results,
which are explained in detail below.
As shown in Table 2, column (a), the actual value of all cars
was the same in both markets and was estimated at USD
242,894, prior to both games. This sum reflects the value of
24 cars which were traded on both markets and excludes one
car (from both sets of analysis) that was not sold in the tradi-
tional market. This also mirrors our preconditions for car se-
lection for the game, namely an average car value between
USD 9000 and USD 11,000. Column (b) presents the total
sale price that was achieved for the cars in each round and
shows that the total sales price increased from USD 219,595
in the traditional round to USD 241,569 in the cardossier
round. In column (c), we calculated the difference between
the sales price and the actual value of the cars and see that
on the traditional market, in total the cars were sold for USD
23,299 less than they are actually worth. Relatively speaking,
the cars were sold for 9.56% less than their actual value. In the
cardossier market, a deviation of only −0.55% from the actual
value (or USD −1325 absolutely) was achieved. Hence, this
result shows that the cars on the cardossier market were sold
closer to their actual values. A two-sided paired sample t-test
compared the sale price of a car between traditional (M. =
9150, S.D. = 1958) and cardossier (M. = 10,065, S.D. =
1448) markets. The result that the cars were sold closer to their
actual values was significant (p < 0.05).
We also calculated the sum of spending (for both buyers
and sellers) for cardossier products, with the information costs
presented in column (d). In the traditional market, the infor-
mation costs were zero since there were no cardossier
Fig. 2 View of the IT artifact in the cardossier market game
Is there a market for trusted car data? 217
products to purchase. In the cardossier round, the total infor-
mation costs were USD 5130. Hence, in column (e), the re-
sults show that if the information costs were also considered,
there was still an increase in market value of +6.93% from the
traditional to the cardossier market.
By comparing the performance of each car on both markets
individually, the results showed that on the cardossier market
outliers were marginalized. While on the traditional market
the sales prices ranged from USD 3000 to USD 11,900, on
the cardossier market the sales prices only ranged from USD
7900 to USD 12,500. Therefore, this price range was reduced
by 48% on the cardossier market.
Agent view
In contrast to the market analysis, where the cars served as our
point of reference, when analyzing the effects of trusted car
data at agent-level, we considered the market participants and
their performance as our point of reference. More specifically,
we analyzed the performance of both user groups (seller and
buyer), and individual actors between the two rounds. The
performance was measured on the basis of their relative reve-
nue. Table 3 gives an overview of the total and mean relative
performance of each user group in both game rounds. A de-
tailed overview of the individual results is presented in
Appendix 2a (sellers) and 1b (buyers).
In short, the evaluation of the relative revenue shows that
sellers performed better on the cardossier market compared to
the traditional market. More specifically, in mean they went
from a relative revenue of −8.73% to a relative revenue of
−0.09%. In the cardossier round, they spent USD 1′050 on
analysis of their own car and received USD 780 in revenue for
their data sales. Evaluating the performance of each seller
individually, we could see that while on the traditional market
the relative revenue ranged between −70.62% and 22.5%, on
the cardossier market there was only a profit range between
−14.85% and 17.53%. Furthermore, those sellers that were
randomly assigned a lemon performed better than those with
peaches, since there was a greater margin to make. This was
evident in both game rounds, but most strongly in the tradi-
tional market. In addition to the evaluation of the relative
revenue, we also analysed the relationships between pur-
chases of trusted car data from the cardossier and game per-
formance. However, whether a seller had bought analysis
about his own car or not did not have any effects on their
performance.
Contrary to that, on average, the buyers performed better
on the traditional market compared to the cardossier market.
On the traditional market, buyers achieved a total profit of
USD 23,299, or inmean, a relative revenue of +8.7%, whereas
in the cardossier market, they only achieved a total absolute
profit of USD 3990, or mean relative revenue of −0,77%.
Analyzing the buyers’ individually, the results show that on
the traditional market there were a few very good buyers (rel-
ative revenue of top 3: 70.6%, 32.7%, 23.6%) and a few very
bad buyers (relative revenue of bottom 3: −22.5%, −12.4%,
−9.8%). On the cardossier market, the top three differed in
their relative revenue only marginally (relative revenue of
top 3: 13.0%, 9.01%, 8.1%). Similarly narrow were the dif-
ferences between the bottom three buyers (relative revenue of
bottom 3: −20.0%, −13.1%, −12.4%). In sum, these results
showed that the revenue range was more compact in the
Table 2 Results of market view analysis
Game Round (a)
Total Actual
Value (all Cars)a in USD
(b)
Total Sales
Price in USD
(c)
Deviation of SP from AV
(d)
Information
Costs absolute in USD
(e)
Mean deviation of
SP from AV including
IC (SP + IC-AV) / AV in %Absolute
(SP – AV) in USD
Mean relative
(SP – AV)/AV in %
traditional 242,894 219,595 −23,299 −9.59 0 −9.59
cardossier 241,569 −1325 −0.55 5130.00 −2.66
Deviation of market value
of cars sold between the games
21,974 +9.05 +5130 +6.93
a A total of 24 cars - one car was excluded from the analysis since it was only traded in one market.
Table 3 Results of the agent view analysis
Game
Round
Seller Buyer
Total IC in USD Total IR in USD Total abs. RR in USD Mean RR in % Total IC in USD Total abs. RR in USD Mean RR in %
Traditional 0 0 −23,299 −8.73 0 23,299 +8.73
Cardossier 1050 780 −1595 −0.09 3990 3990 −0.07
I. Bauer et al. 218
cardossier market than in the traditional market. Rather than
having big winners and great losers, as was the case on the
traditional market, on the cardossier market the revenue mar-
gin was smaller and more equally distributed between both
user groups.
Besides the relative revenue, for the buyers we also ana-
lyzed the number of information products they consulted from
the cardossier. The results showed that, on average, those
players who bought more trusted car data (independent of its
form, raw data or analysis) performed better than those players
who bought less.
Figure 3 presents the number of information products
(data and analysis) that were purchased by each buyer
from different cars. The buyers are numbered consecu-
tively and ranked according to their achievements on
the cardossier market. The horizontal line in Fig. 2 in-
dicates that the average number of purchases of trusted car
data was three.
Value of trusted car data
In this subsection, we present the results of the qualitative
analysis. In short, from the interviews with the sellers, we
learned that the greatest value they experienced from the in-
duction of the cardossier was their ability to signal the quality.
One interviewee, for example, said that he would even offer
his data for free to buyers who express serious interest, just to
have the ability to prove that he is not lying (Seller_RB).
Buyers, on the other hand, valued their ability to reduce risk
and uncertainty, both during the trade process and with re-
spect to their decision. They emphasized increased
transparency in the whole trade process and valued their abil-
ity to make informed decisions. Furthermore, both seller and
buyer stressed that they perceived the sales process on the
cardossier market more efficient compared to the trade pro-
cess on the traditional market. Besides that, the majority of the
interviewees evaluated the overall situation on the cardossier
market as fairer for both user groups. Table 4 gives a detailed
overview about the value experiences that emerged from the
interview analysis, and it provides a description, as well as
code unit, as an example for each value experience.
Discussion
The role of Blockchain for trusted car data
Information asymmetries and hence the lack of transparency
on the market are the root cause of most issues that are pre-
vailing today’s used-car market. With the advent of the inter-
net, we have seen a few solutions aiming to address these
issues with the help of IT. Yet, while a simple IT-based elec-
tronic representation of the physical product might increase
transparency and market efficiency in some industries (e.g. the
travel market), this might not necessarily be true for others
(mortgage market) (Granados et al. 2006). This is especially
evident in markets where trust plays an important role.
However, with the advent of blockchain technology, prior
research has shown that this technology offers the capabilities
to create trust-free solutions, hence increase transparency in
the market for lemons through trusted car data (Beck et al.
2016; Notheisen et al. 2017a).While trust most certainly plays
an important role between buyers and sellers in the second-
hand car market, it is also relevant one level deeper, at the
infrastructure layer. As we have learned from the review of
prior literature, blockchain also facilitates trust between mul-
tiple (eventually competing) participants, and enables them to
collaborate and provide comprehensive trusted car data, in the
first place. Abstracting from our case it can be said that the
need for blockchain must not only be for technical reasons but
can also be explained by economic rationales. Blockchain
enables multiple, also competing participants, to collaborate
and jointly create a comprehensive and trusted data ledger
without the threat of a novel centralized power. This is appli-
cable to all ecosystems where the aim it is to digitize a good of
high value and transfer the unique characteristics from the
physical to the digital world and making the implicit knowl-
edge explicit.
0
2
4
6
8
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24
N
um
be
r 
of
 in
fo
rm
at
io
n 
pr
od
uc
t p
ur
ch
as
es
Buyers' rank
Number of information product purchases from different cars
Avg. number of information product purchases from different cars
Linear (Number of information product purchases from different cars)
Fig. 3 Number of information
product purchases by each buyer
ordered according to their rank
(Rank 1 = best performer, Rank
24 = worst performer)
Is there a market for trusted car data? 219
Thus, building on these insights form prior research in our
work, we explored the market potential of trusted car data
through its ability to increase transparency in the market for
lemons and the value it creates for market participants. In the
following we will answer our research questions and discuss
our results with in the light of prior research.
Increased transparency through trusted car data
In the introduction we raised the question whether or not we
can increase transparency in the used-car market through
trusted car data (RQ1). The results presented above show that
we can. In particular. The increase in transparency in the mar-
ket for used cars through trusted car data can be illustrated
from both the buyers’ and the sellers’ perspectives. On the
one hand, a lack of transparency and reliable information in
the market for lemons makes it hard for buyers to tell the true
quality and hence the real value of a car. This quality uncer-
tainty results in the prices of used cars being either too high or
too low (Wolinsky 1983). This effect was evident in the tradi-
tional round of our market game. The big variances in the
prices for the used cars reflects the lack of transparency for
buyers and hence their inability to evaluate the true quality of
the used cars on the market. However, through the introduc-
tion of trusted car data, this changed drastically. The fact that
the cars were now sold at prices that, in mean, deviated only
−0.5% from their actual value, combined with the marginali-
zation of outliers, greatly reflected the increase in transparency
in the market and hence the ability of buyers to better evaluate
the cars’ quality. Besides that, a deeper assessment of the
relationship between the performance of buyers and the
number of information products that were consulted showed
that those buyers who bought more trusted car data performed
better than those who bought less. This leads us to infer that
Table 4 Experienced value of the trusted car data for seller and buyer
Role Value Experience Description Code Unit Example
Seller Quality Signaling Sellers valued the ability to
better signal the (good)
quality of the car.
Seller (AM): “I could just say more solidly
that it’s really worth more. That it has not only
subjectively more value for me but objectively
more value overall and refer to the cardossier
that shows it is actually worth more than the
market price and not just because I have the
feeling that it is worth more.”
Seller / Buyer Fairness Both seller and buyer valued
the overall situation as fairer
for both parties.
Seller (RK): “So I can’t think of anything more that
now I was able selling the car at a fair price.”
Buyer (PE): “I have the feeling that the purchase price
was more substantiated, so that the seller could
not just purely set up an estimate, but one could
understand it much better, so I had the feeling that you
are paying a fairer price with the cardossier then
if you don’t have that.”
Seller / Buyer Efficiency Increase Both seller and buyer
experienced and valued
increased efficiency in the
trade process.
Seller (LB): “Yes, actually, it makes the whole
administration easier. So, it’s faster, otherwise you
have to do it yourself. If it is very random, then I
could buy the car somewhere and access the card file
and could pretty quickly determine the price at
which I can sell it.”
Buyer (BJ): “Yes, it can certainly speed up and simplify
the preselection process. You don’t have to look at
so many cars anymore.”
Buyer Reduced Risk and
Uncertainty
Buyers valued the ability to
reduced risk and uncertainty
in the sales process and in
their purchasing decision
Buyer (DF): “(…) the tedious part of whether you can
believe him or whether the salesman does what he
wants falls away. A large part of the uncertainty disappears.”
Buyer (PE): “In round two I was willing to pay more
if you know what you can have.”
Buyer Increased Transparency Buyers experienced and valued
increased transparency in
the whole trade process
Buyer (NK): “It (the cardossier) of course makes it
overall more transparent in my opinion.”
Buyer Informed Decision
Making and
Argumentation
Buyers valued the ability to
inform their decision making
and used trusted car use data
as grounds for discussion
Buyer (TC): “The cardossier data definitely helped with
pricing decision (…) you can see how much added
value it is and that’s very helpful.”
Buyer (NC): “Yes, I took some information from the
cardossier to argue my price, why I want to pay less.”
I. Bauer et al. 220
these buyers had greater market transparency and hence were
able to better assess the true quality of the cars on the market.
On the other hand, while in theory Akerlof (1976) argued that
in free markets the effects of adverse selection will come in to
play, since the prospect of negative rents will drive out sellers
of peaches, in practice, other reasons might force sellers to
stay in the market and inflect market prices. This was the case
in our market game. As sellers were incentivized to maximize
their relative revenue, they were better off selling their cars for
less than their actual worth than withdrawing cars from the
market. The big deviation of the sale prices from the actual
values of the cars (−9,6% in the traditional market), as well as
the poor achievements of the sellers (a mean relative revenue
of −8,7%), also mirrored the effects of a lack in transparency
through the inability of honest sellers to prove the quality of
their cars (Pavlou and Dimoka 2008). This changed on the
cardossier market, as mentioned above, and led to an
increase in the relative revenue of the sellers. From
the quantitative analysis we can only infer that there
was an increase in transparency also from sellers’ per-
spective due the better approximation of the sale prices
to the actual value, however how this was achieved will be
discussed in the following subsection.
Now, what does this increased market transparency mean
for the used-car market? In general, prior research on the im-
pact of IT argues that through the reduction of coordination
costs and an increase in transparency, IT can lead to new
markets, or the proliferation of existing ones (Granados et al.
2006; Malone et al. 1987). In our market game, we
experimented with a closed market and a fixed number of
buyers and sellers, hence no “additional” sellers or cars were
able to enter the market. However, in line with the theory of
Akerlof (1976), it could be argued that an increase in trans-
parency could resolve the effects of adverse selection and
result in an increase in the overall market value of used cars.
This is because not only sellers of lemons and sellers who are
forced to sell their car given other reasons would enter the
market. Sellers of ‘good quality’ cars, who would otherwise
withdraw from the market due to negative informational rents,
now have an incentive to enter the market. Besides this pros-
pect of market proliferation (through additional good quality
used cars), which we can only infer form theoretical knowl-
edge, we could see the emergence of a new market. The new
market that emerged in our game was the market for trusted
car data. On the one hand, we could measure this new market
through the spending’s that buyers and sellers paid for trusted
car data from the cardossier IT artifact. The absolute value of
this newly created market was estimated at USD 5130 for the
24 cars that were traded in the market, making an average
USD 214 for each used car that is traded. While the absolute
value of this newly created market for trusted car data is little
meaningful, given that little emphasis that was placed on test-
ing and evaluating different pricing methods, the suggestion
that a market for trusted car data exists is greatly informative
also for other domains.
Abstracting from our case, given its ability to created
trusted data and hence a new market for trusted data,
blockchain can also be of high relevance in other cases, where
trust in data quality plays an important role. However, to un-
derstand the value of such a newly created data market better
and also to derive implications for other domains, on the other
hand, we followed up on this and, in the subsection below, we
discuss how the perceived customer value of trusted car data
indicated the potential of new data markets.
The value of trusted car data for market participants
Next to the question of whether or not we can increase trans-
parency, we were also interested in how the market partici-
pants value trusted car data. We can answer this second re-
search question through the value experiences that we derived
from our qualitative analysis (Table 4). For sellers, the ability
to signal the quality of their car was what they valued from the
cardossier IT artifact. Buyers valued the ability to reduce risk
and uncertainty, increase transparency, and the ability to make
informed decisions and argumentations. In addition to these
role specific value experiences, both user groups value that
through the availability of trusted car data the overall trade
process was experienced as fairer and more efficient. These
results show that a blockchain-based IT artifact, that provides
trusted car data in the market for lemons, is valuable for both
buyers and sellers. While quantitatively buyers might seem as
the loser of the game, since their relative revenue decreased in
the cardossier market and on average they paid more for the
same car, the qualitative results show no perceived disadvan-
tages. On the contrary, the sellers valued not only increased
transparency, as the quantitative analysis might indicate but
also for example the reduction of risk and uncertainty. Also,
prior research identified that risk hedging is of value for
buyers. Thus, certain measures like guaranties, licensing and
certificates were proposed (Akerlof 1970; Genesove 1993).
However, while these measures enabled to reduce risk and
quality uncertainty to a certain degree, they did not reduce
inefficiencies (Bond 1982). Yet, with trusted car data from
the cardossier IT artifact, buyers also experienced an increase
in efficiency in the overall trade process. Besides that, trusted
car data from the cardossier provides additional value through
increased market transparency, that prior solutions like guar-
anties and certificates cannot. Through the access to trusted
car data for multiple different cars buyers valued the ability to
better assess the whole market, rather than hedging risk for
only one certain car. This was also quantitatively measured
(Fig. 3) and the insights from both, qualitative and quantitative
analysis allows us to infer that those buyers who bought more
information products were better able to assess the quality of
the cars, thus performed better on the cardossier market.
Is there a market for trusted car data? 221
Besides the value for buyers, this qualitative analysis also
showed that trusted car data is also of value for sellers. Thus,
while prior research mainly focused on the buyers’ needs
(Notheisen et al. 2017a; Zavolokina et al. 2018a) wewere able
to elicit that such a blockchain-based IT artifact is valued also
by sellers. More specifically, based on the quantitative analy-
sis we showed that sellers were able to sell their cars on aver-
age to higher prices in the market where the IT artifact was
introduced. Combining these quantitative insights with the
results from the qualitative analysis, we are now able to un-
derstand why. The increase in transparency is also valued by
sellers because this enables them to signal the quality of their
car. The ability to refer potential buyers to trusted car data
helps sellers to argument more solidly and improve their sales
achievements. Additionally, also sellers perceived the trade
processes on the cardossier market as more efficient. This,
can again be argued as a positive effect of increased transpar-
ency on the market that besides higher profits, creates addi-
tional value for sellers.
These insights from agents’ view supports the argumenta-
tion from above, namely the potential of a market for trusted
car data. While from the quantitative analysis, the willingness
to purchase trusted car data, we were able to measure an indi-
cation for the potential of a new market. Through the insights
from the qualitative analysis we have seen that trusted car data
is positively valued by both buyers and sellers.
Yet, going back to the question of the role of blockchain,
we can argue that while it is the underlying technology that
enables to create a comprehensive car history record, the users
during the interviews did not specifically mention the use of
blockchain technology as a key value proposition, for them.
This leads us again to the normative that blockchain can be
viewed as an enabler for new products and services processes,
which eventually might lead to the proliferation of new mar-
kets. However, the technology per se does not increase market
transparency, but it rather depends on the design of the prod-
ucts and its positioning in the market.
Conclusion
In this paper we have explored the market potential and the
value experience of the application of a blockchain-based sys-
tem in the used-car market. Through an exploratory study, in-
cluding both quantitative and qualitative measures, we showed
that there is a market for trusted car data that can increase
transparency in the used-car trade, and answered RQ 1 (Can
we increase transparency in the used-car market through
trusted car data?). Further, we have deepened the understand-
ing with respect to the core values of a blockchain-based appli-
cation and provided an answer to our RQ 2 (How do market
participants value trusted car data?) showing that both buyers
and sellers value trusted car data. Finally, based on prior
literature as well as the insight from this study, we respond to
our overall question (What is the role of blockchain for trusted
car data in the market for lemons?), and argue that the role of
blockchain to be an enable for the creation of a novel product /
service that was not possible before (e.g. a comprehensive,
trusted car documentation). Hence, it rather indirectly affects
the market through acting as facilitator between multiple stake-
holder groups. These insights contribute on the one hand to
academia, who claimed to lack rigorous scientific studies that
qualify the disruptive potential of blockchain apart from its
application as cryptocurrency. On the other hand, businesses
for which we have shown that there is substantial market po-
tential. Hence, supporting their ambitions and investments with
respect to blockchain technology, by show that it eventually
will pay off. Furthermore, from our research businesses can
learn about user preferences and guide design directions that
will enable to reap the value from the technology, in the used-
car market, but also in other domains. However, this study
needs to be seen in light of its limitations. Certainly, one short-
coming of this study is its reliance on one dataset (one user-
group in one geographical location). While this might offer
great insight for practitioners in and around Switzerland who
specifically target young adults, it motivates further research in
order to explore, for example, whether outcomes for other user
groups (elderly not technically affine users) or other countries
in Europe - or evenworld-wide – are similar. Despite our efforts
to mitigate learning effects (by mixing-up the used cars that
were assigned to the participants between the two game
rounds), it could be argued that in the second round, the
cardossier market users benefited from learning effects.
However, since only one user-group (sellers) profited from
higher relative revenues during the second round (while buyers
lost significant amounts of their profits compared to the first
round), we believe that the changes in car allocation, as well as
the changes through the introduction of the ITartifact, mitigated
any effects that might result from a repeated game.
Nonetheless, we aim to address these limitations, continue
our study, and test the result in other settings and reversed game
ordering. Besides these methodological limitations, while we
acknowledge the potential of blockchain, we also want to point
the reader to the well-known saying: “garbage in, garbage out”.
For our study we relied on the fact that all data from the
cardossier IT artifact is valid and can be trusted. While re-
searchers have already started exploring these issues
(Zavolokina et al. 2018b), we see further potential for research
on a mechanism to ensure data quality in a blockchain system.
Besides that, role of privacy is most certainly of great relevance
when taking about trusted data that in great parts also includes
(drivers’) behavior data or data that can be related back to the
car owner in some way or another. Thus, we encourage other
researcher to study privacy aspects of car owners and mobility
users with respect to blockchain-based systems. Finally, based
on the assumption that all data and information products are of
I. Bauer et al. 222
equal quality, we set the prices for equal and fixed. Another
interesting aspect for future research can be to explore the ef-
fects of variable prices, for example. Overall, we believe that
blockchain has the power to act as a key infrastructural re-
source, not only for trusted car data, but also data about other
high value goods where trust is key. Therefore, with this study,
we hope to inspire other researchers to explore the disruptive
potential of blockchain on markets and its value for users.
Appendix
The cardossier Architecture
The figure below depicts the cardossier architecture.
Cardossier Core is the blockchain-based storage and
management of trusted car data. The Cardossier Dapp Store
allow to develop decentralized applications which utilize the
trusted car data from the core. In turn, these Dapps, are con-
nected to external systems, such as web applications.
However, in this study, we only used and focused on the
effects of the cardossier as web app to support the buyers
and sellers during the 2nd hand car sale.
References
Akerlof, G. A. (1970). The market for ‘lemons’: Quality uncertainty and
the market mechanism. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 84,
488–500.
Akerlof, G. (1976). The economics of caste and of the rat race and other
woeful Tales. The Quarterly Journal of Economics, 90(4), 599.
https://doi.org/10.2307/1885324.
Avital, M., Beck, R., King, J., Rossi, M., & Teigland, R. (2016). Jumping
on the Blockchain bandwagon: Lessons of the past and outlook to
the future. 37th ICIS Proceedings.
Bauer, I., Zavolokina, L., Leisibach, F., & Schwabe, G. (2018). Exploring
Blockchain value creation: The case of the Car ecosystem.
Proceedings of the 52th HICSS, 10.
Beck, R., Weber, S., & Gregory, R. W. (2013). Theory-generating design
science research. Information Systems Frontiers, 15(4), 637–651.
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10796-012-9342-4.
Beck, R., Czepluch Stemi, J., Lollike, N., & Malone, S. (2016).
Blockchain - the gateway to trust-free cryptographic transactions
(1–14). Turkey: Istanbul.
Bergander. (2017, June 9). Carpass: Autohistorie nach Carfax-Vorbild -
Die Gebrauchtwagen Historie geht online. Retrieved November 13,
Is there a market for trusted car data? 223
https://doi.org/10.2307/1885324
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10796-012-9342-4
2018, from https://www.motor-talk.de/news/die-gebrauchtwagen-
historie-geht-online-t6135033.html. Accessed 13 Nov 2018.
Böhme, R., Christin, N., Edelman, B., & Moore, T. (2015). Bitcoin:
Economics, technology, and governance. Journal of Economic
Perspectives, 29(2), 213–238. https://doi.org/10.1257/jep.29.2.213.
Bond, E. W. (1982). A direct test of the “lemons” model: The market for
used pickup trucks. The American Economic Review, 72(4), 836–
840.
Briggs, R. O., & Schwabe, G. (2011). On expanding the scope of design
science in IS research. In H. Jain, A. P. Sinha, & P. Vitharana (Eds.),
Service-Oriented Perspectives in Design Science Research (Vol.
6629, pp. 92–106). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-20633-7_7.
Brousmiche, K. L., Heno, T., Poulain, C., Dalmieres, A., & Ben Hamida,
E. (2018). Digitizing, securing and sharing vehicles life-cycle over a
consortium Blockchain: Lessons learned. 2018 9th IFIP internation-
al conference on new technologies, mobility and security (NTMS),
1–5. https://doi.org/10.1109/NTMS.2018.8328733.
Chen, Y., Li, Q., & Wang, H. (2018). Towards trusted social networks
with Blockchain. Presented at the Symposium on Foundations and
Appl ica t ions of Blockchain . Retr ieved from (ht tp : / /
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/). Accessed 26 March 2019.
Dimoka, A., & Pavlou, P. (2006). Product Quality Uncertainty in Online
AuctionMarketplaces: Overcoming Adverse Product Selectionwith
Price Premiums. 6.
Dimoka, A., Hong, Y., & Pavlou, P. A. (2012). On Product Uncertainty in
Online Markets: Theory and Evidence. 36(2), 395–426.
European Comission - Justice and Consumers. (2014, October 1). Study
on the second hand cars market. Retrieved October 20, 2017, from
https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/study-second-hand-cars-
market_en. Accessed 16 Nov 2018.
European Parliament. (2018, May 29). Fighting mileage fraud on used
cars. Retrieved from News European Parliament website: http://
www.europar l . europa .eu /news /en /head l ines / soc ie ty /
20180525STO04312/fighting-mileage-fraud-on-used-cars.
Accessed 16 Nov 2018.
Genesove, D. (1993). Adverse selection in the wholesale used Car mar-
ket. Journal of Political Economy, 101(4), 644–665. https://doi.org/
10.1086/261891.
Gipp, B., Meuschke, N., & Gernandt, A. (2015). Decentralized Trusted
Timestamping using the Crypto Currency Bitcoin. 6.
Glaser, F. (2017). Pervasive Decentralisation of Digital Infrastructures:
A Framework for Blockchain enabled System and Use Case
Analysis. Presented at the proceedings of the 50th Hawaii interna-
tional conference on system sciences |. Retrieved from http://hdl.
handle.net/10125/41339. Accessed 12 Nov 2018.
Granados, N. F., Gupta, A., & Kauffman, R. (2006). The impact of IT on
market information and transparency: A unified theoretical frame-
work. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 7(3),
148–178. Doi: https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00083.
Hawlitschek, F., Notheisen, B., & Teubner, T. (2018). The limits of trust-
free systems: A literature review on blockchain technology and trust
in the sharing economy. Electronic Commerce Research and
Applications, 29, 50–63. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2018.03.
005.
Hevner, A. R. (2007). A three cycle view of design science research.
Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems, 19(2), 7.
Hevner, A. R., March, S. T., Park, J., & Ram, S. (2004). Design science in
information systems research. MIS Quarterly, No., 1(28), 75–105.
Höst, M., Regnell, B., &Wholin, C. (2000). Using students as subjects - a
comparative study of students and professionals in Lead-time impact
assessment. Empirical Software Engineering: An International
Journal, 5(3), 201–214.
Huston, J. H., & Spencer, R. W. (2002). Quality, uncertainty and the
internet: The market for cyber lemons. The American Economist,
46(1), 50–60. https://doi.org/10.1177/056943450204600107.
Lades, S. (2017, March 15). Vertrauen der Deutschen in Sicherheitskräfte
wächst weiter - Automobilbranche mit starken Verlusten. Retrieved
from GFK Verein website: S. Lades, “Vertrauen der Deutschen in
Sicherheitskräfte wächst weiter - Automobilbranche mit starken
Verlusten,
Levin, J. (2001). Information and the market for lemons. The Rand
Journal of Economics, 32(4), 657. https://doi.org/10.2307/2696386.
Lewis, G. (2011). Asymmetric information, adverse selection and online
disclosure: The case of eBay motors. The American Economic
Review, 101(4), 1535–1546.
Liang, X., Shetty, S., Tosh, D., Kamhoua, C., Kwiat, K., & Njilla, L.
(2017, May). ProvChain: A Blockchain-Based Data Provenance
Architecture in Cloud Environment with Enhanced Privacy and
Availability. 468–477. doi: https://doi.org/10.1109/CCGRID.2017.
8.
Malone, T. W., Yates, J., & Benjamin, R. I. (1987). Electronic markets
and electronic hierarchies. Communications of the ACM, 30(6),
484–497.
March, S. T., & Smith, G. F. (1995). Design and natural science reserach
on inforamtion technology. Secision Support Systems, 15, 251–266.
Myers, M. D., & Newman, M. (2007). The qualitative interview in IS
research: Examining the craft. Information and Organization, 17(1),
2–26. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2006.11.001.
Naerland, K., Müller-Bloch, C., Beck, R., & Palmund, S. (2017).
Blockchain to Rule the Waves - Nascent Design Principles for
Reducing Risk and Uncertainty in Decentralized Environments.
16. South Korea.
Nakamoto, S. (2009). Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.,
9.
Notheisen, B., Cholewa, J. B., & Shanmugam, A. P. (2017a). Trading
real-world assets on Blockchain: An application of trust-free trans-
action Systems in the Market for lemons. Business & Information
Systems Engineering, 59(6), 425–440. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s12599-017-0499-8.
Notheisen, B., Hawlitschek, F., &Weinhardt, C. (2017b). Breaking down
the Blockchain hype - Towrads a blockchain market engineering
approach. In Proceedings of the 25th European Conference on
Information Systems (ECIS), 20. Guimarães, Portugal.
Pavlou, P., & Dimoka, A. (2008). Understanding and mitigating product
uncertainty in online auction marketplaces. Information Systems
Research. doi: https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1135006.
Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M., & Chatterjee, S. (2007). A
Design Science Research Methodology for Information Systems
Research. J Manage Inf Syst 24(3), 45–77. https://doi.org/10.2753/
MIS0742-1222240302
Peterson, J. R., & Schneider, H. S. (2014). Adverse selection in the used-
car market: Evidence from purchase and repair patterns in the con-
sumer expenditure survey. The Rand Journal of Economics, 45(1),
140–154. https://doi.org/10.1111/1756-2171.12045.
Risius, M., & Spohrer, K. (2017). A Blockchain research framework:
What we (don’t) know, where we go from Here, and how we will
get there. Business & Information Systems Engineering, 59(6), 385–
409. https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0506-0.
Saldaña, J. (2009). The coding manual for qualitative researchers. Los
Angeles, Calif: Sage.
Seebacher, S., & Schüritz, R. (2017). Blockchain technology as an en-
abler of service systems: A structured literature review. In S. Za, M.
Drăgoicea, & M. Cavallari (Eds.), Exploring Services Science (Vol.
279, pp. 12–23). doi: https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-56925-3_2.
Shrier, D., Wu, W., & Pentland, A. (2016). Blockchain & Infrastructure
(identity, data security). Computer Science & Engineering, MIT, 3,
18.
Stahl, K., & Strausz, R. (2017). Certification and market transparency.
Review of Economic Studies, 84, 1842–1868. https://doi.org/10.
1093/restud/rdw064.
I. Bauer et al. 224
https://www.motor-talk.de/news/die-gebrauchtwagen-historie-geht-online-t6135033.html
https://www.motor-talk.de/news/die-gebrauchtwagen-historie-geht-online-t6135033.html
https://doi.org/10.1257/jep.29.2.213
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-20633-7_7
https://doi.org/10.1109/NTMS.2018.8328733
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/
https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/study-second-hand-cars-market_en
https://ec.europa.eu/info/publications/study-second-hand-cars-market_en
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/society/20180525STO04312/fighting-mileage-fraud-on-used-cars
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/society/20180525STO04312/fighting-mileage-fraud-on-used-cars
http://www.europarl.europa.eu/news/en/headlines/society/20180525STO04312/fighting-mileage-fraud-on-used-cars
https://doi.org/10.1086/261891
https://doi.org/10.1086/261891
http://hdl.handle.net/10125/41339
http://hdl.handle.net/10125/41339
https://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00083
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2018.03.005
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2018.03.005
https://doi.org/10.1177/056943450204600107
https://doi.org/10.2307/2696386
https://doi.org/10.1109/CCGRID.2017.8
https://doi.org/10.1109/CCGRID.2017.8
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2006.11.001
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0499-8
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0499-8
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1135006
https://doi.org/10.2753/MIS0742-1222240302
https://doi.org/10.2753/MIS0742-1222240302
https://doi.org/10.1111/1756-2171.12045
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0506-0
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-56925-3_2
https://doi.org/10.1093/restud/rdw064
https://doi.org/10.1093/restud/rdw064
Stebbins, R. (2001). Exploratory research in the social sciences. In
Thousand oaks, CA; London, UK. New Delhi, India: Sage
Publications, Inc..
The promise of the blockcahin trust machine. (2015). The Economist.
Retrieved from https://www.economist.com/leaders/2015/10/31/
the-trust-machine
Weber, R. P. (1990). Basic content analysis. Sage.
Wilson, C. (1980). The nature of equilibrium in markets with adverse
selection. The Bell Journal of Economics, 11(1), 108. https://doi.
org/10.2307/3003403.
Wolinsky, A. (1983). Prices as signals of product quality. The Review of
Economic Studies, 50(4), 647. https://doi.org/10.2307/2297767.
Zavolokina, L., Miscione, G., & Schwabe, G. (2018a). Buyers of lemons:
Addressing buyers’ needs in the market for lemons with Blockchain
technology. 52nd Hawaii international conference on system sci-
ences, 10.
Zavolokina, L., Spychiger, F., Tessone, C., & Schwabe, G. (2018b).
Incentivizing Data Quality in Blockchains for Inter-Organizational
Networks – Learning from the Digital Car Dossier. Presented at the
international conference of information systems (ICIS).
Ziolkowski, R., Miscione, G., & Schwabe, G. (2018). Consensus through
Blockchains: Exploring governance across inter- organizational set-
tings. 39th ICIS Proceedings, 17.
Publisher’s note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Is there a market for trusted car data? 225
https://www.economist.com/leaders/2015/10/31/the-trust-machine
https://www.economist.com/leaders/2015/10/31/the-trust-machine
https://doi.org/10.2307/3003403
https://doi.org/10.2307/3003403
https://doi.org/10.2307/2297767
	Is there a market for trusted car data?
	Abstract
	Introduction
	Related work
	Economics in today’s market for lemons
	Reponses from IS research addressing the market for lemons
	Blockchain and trusted car data
	Methods
	DSR using experimental techniques to explore and evaluate
	Market game settings
	Game design
	Trusted car data from the cardossier
	Data collection and analysis
	Results
	Effects of trusted car data
	Market view
	Agent view
	Value of trusted car data
	Discussion
	The role of Blockchain for trusted car data
	Increased transparency through trusted car data
	The value of trusted car data for market participants
	Conclusion
	Appendix
	The cardossier Architecture
	References