Securing IoT Transactions Against Double-Spending Attacks based on Signaling Game Approach
Securing IoT Transactions Against Double-Spending
Attacks based on Signaling Game Approach
Hafsa BENADDI∗, Mohammed JOUHARI∗, Khalil IBRAHIMI (IEEE Senio Member)∗, Abderrahim BENSLIMANE†
∗Ibn Tofail University, Faculty of Sciences, LaRI Laboratory, Kenitra, Morocco
†University of Avignon, CERI/LIA, France
hafsa.benaddi@uit.ac.ma, jouhari4med@gmail.com, ibrahimi.khalil@uit.ac.ma, abderrahim.benslimane@univ-avignon.fr
Abstract—With considerable demand for higher throughput,
greater capacity, and lower latency for consumers, the Internet
of Things (IoT) network is anticipated to meet the desired
security and privacy requirements. This study provides high
transaction throughput on critical IoT applications, particularly
Bitcoin security against double-spending attacks. To this end, we
investigated the signaling game approach to model the interaction
between two miners while considering players behavior (mali-
cious or honest miners) and the incoming transaction throughput.
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work that
exploits the signaling game to cover the incoming transactions
randomness waiting for validation, which influences the honest
miners behavior. With extensive simulations, we show that our
proposed signaling game reduces the impact of double-spending
attacks on IoT transactions. The results also illustrate the benefit
of using the signaling game to model the interaction between
two miners while handling the incomplete information of the
incoming transactions and the type of miners.
Index Terms—Bitcoin Blockchain, Internet of Things, Signaling
Game, Double-Spending attacks.
I. INTRODUCTION
Currently, the Internet of Things (IoT) has received sig-
nificant attention from different fields. Despite the Big Data
paradigm’s opportunities, the existence of such a massive
amount of Big Data leads to security challenges. The in-
formation exchange and transaction of devices have shown
a significant impact on business and safety. Conventionally,
integrating the emerging technology Blockchain in IoT ap-
plications [1], [2], [3] is crucial to establish a decentralized
autonomous trading platform for IoT networks without a
third-party entity. Bitcoin is a widely used digital currency
employed by the general public in the payment ecosystem
[4]. At the heart of how Bitcoin works is a global public
ledger called the Blockchain, which is the enabling technology
behind a range of digital cryptocurrencies solved by specific
participants called miners. However, Blockchain is a chain of
blocks using a growing directory of the cryptographic hash
block [5] that stores information and digital certificates in a
distributed, decentralized network [6], [7]. Miners in bitcoin
communicate over Transmission Control Protocol (TCP/IP)
[8], but with delays. The delay between fellow miners may
differ based on geographic location, physical connection, hard-
ware, software, and message size. For simplicity, we assume
that the time delay between every two miners is constant
at 10 minutes. Furthermore, validating a Blockchain block
requires many calculations in generating a block. Solving all of
those mathematical computations with delay impact is called
Proof of Work (PoW), and it consists of finding the value
of the Nonce field to be filled in the block header so that
the hash of the block header leads to a result lower than a
particular value over time [9]. If the average time is too short,
the difficulty is then revised upwards. If it is too long, the
difficulty is reduced. While mining blocks compete, miners
require a lot of energy for transmitting, receiving transactions,
and validating a certain number of Blocks on the simulated
network. The miner who succeeds receives a reward called the
mining reward. Bitcoin still suffers from the vulnerability of
attacks [10] such as double-spending attacks [11] which is the
outcome of using some cryptocurrency more than once at the
same time. Likewise, this attack aims to interact with miners to
extend the maximum number of blocks with the most available
transaction fees that follow the longest chain. However, the
main reason for the existing fraudulent miners is the network’s
delay in decreasing the effectiveness of honest mining pools
This paper investigates a novel approach based on a signaling
game to model the interaction between two miners. We also
aim to improve the efficiency of decentralized and distributed
systems through the Blockchain against malicious activities
by enforcing the honest miner’s validation dynamically and
by rewarding the honest miner and punishing the malicious
ones in a game.
The major contributions of this paper are summarized as
follows:
• We proposed a model to reduce the impact of double-
spending attacks on IoT transactions;
• We used the signaling game to model the interaction
between miners to identify honest miners’ best decision
policy to win the game against the malicious miner;
• We considered the impact of the transaction throughput
on the system’s security level, consequently increasing
the appearance of more branches, especially when trans-
action throughput is coming to the network;
• We conducted an extensive simulation to evaluate our
proposed model and reach the equilibrium using multiple
scenarios.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: In section
II, we provide a comprehensive background review on the
978-1-7281-8104-2/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
GL
O
BE
CO
M
 2
02
1 
- 2
02
1 
IE
EE
 G
lo
ba
l C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
ns
 C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
| 
97
8-
1-
72
81
-8
10
4-
2/
21
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
21
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
GL
O
BE
CO
M
46
51
0.
20
21
.9
68
55
98
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:57:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
safety of Blockchain, outlining its building blocks, alternative
consensus algorithms, and protocols used against intruders.
In Section III, a signaling game between two miners is
formulated for studying the incoming transaction throughput.
In Section IV, performance evaluation is implemented. Lastly,
we conclude our investigation, summarize lessons learned,
and some possible future research guidelines are presented in
Section V.
II. RELATED WORK
Over the past few years, the analytical engine of securing
transactions for IoT applications has undergone several learn-
ing approaches. This section provides a brief outline of the
literature review that uses game theory in the mining compe-
tition process in bitcoin to validate new incoming transactions
in the network Blockchain. Karame et al. [12] presented
a new modification of Bitcoin as the first comprehensive
study for detecting double-spending attacks for Bitcoin in fast
payments where the attacker achieved with an overwhelming
probability. In this context, Lewenberg et al. [13] suggested
a novel modification on the inclusive protocol for behavior
changes by nodes, which integrate the contents of off-chain
blocks into the Blockchain and lead to higher throughput and
payoff of weak miners. The authors recommended including
additional analysis on authorization policies of transactions of
the protocol under the known attacks. In particular, Altman et
al. [14] initiated the competition among miners using conges-
tion game to reach a consensus over the public Blockchain
and Edge Computing Service Provider (ESP). The authors
proved that this study does not account for strategic decisions
regarding punishment and cooperation among miners during
a repetitive game. Alzahrani et al. [15] also proposed a new
consensus protocol based on game theory and randomness by
using validators at each timestamp a new block is offered to
avoid attacks. Moreover, this game aims to reward honest
players who join and to penalize dishonest ones. On the
contrary, the player with malicious behavior plays in a static
way. At the same time, the proposer-leader mapping only
guarantees anonymous mapping for a single proposal round.
In addition, Singh et al. [16] examined dynamic resources
in Bitcoin mining using game theory analysis in continuous
time. They showed that their results correspond well with the
common belief that cooperative mining will be improved over
single mining in a non-cooperative game. Motepalli et al. [17]
described a framework for a reward mechanism that is suitable
for many PoS Blockchains. The authors designed the block
validation game. Through the use of evolutionary game theory,
they discussed how players’ behavior could potentially grow
with the reward mechanism.
Compared with the existing research on game-theoretical
approaches for securing Blockchain [18], our model has the
advantage of employing signaling game with incomplete in-
formation of players’ consideration of the throughput of the
network, which decreases the challenge of double-spending
attacks on the Bitcoin Blockchain network.
III. SIGNALING GAME MODEL AND ANALYSIS
A. Model Description
Our modeling approach focuses on the incentives of Bitcoin
miners to get a payoff by mining blocks into the Blockchain
while getting benefits from the time-variance of the incoming
transactions waiting for validation and mining. To this end,
we proposed using a signaling game to model the interaction
between the miners to cover the randomness of incoming
transactions, which is defined in this paper as the throughput
K. It is known that the signaling game is the most suitable
game to handle the stochastic aspect of the mining game. It
takes in consideration multiple parameters such as the number
of the miners, their hash rate or potential, the number of
transactions waiting to be stored/validated, Block size (max
number of transactions to be included in a single block), and
the mining duration (the time required to mine a single block to
the main Blockchain). These constraints make modeling very
problematic and are very challenging tasks. Thus we will focus
our effort on a particular case of the bitcoin without loss of
generality.
Signaling game is known by modeling game with incomplete
information through considering the nature impact which de-
termines the type of players and their behavior (their preferred
strategies) [19], [20]. In our case, nature determines the
number of incoming transactions that should be processed by
validating and mining while taking into account to minimize
the waiting time of each transaction. This pushes the min-
ers to speed up on mining blocks, decreasing the system’s
security level and allowing the malicious miners to perform
their attacks easily. In a high transaction throughput scenario,
multiple honest miners will mine their blocks to different
branches, which results in multiple chains with low length
as shown in Fig.1. Consequently, the malicious miner will
publish its private chain to get the benefits of mining and
perform the double-spending attack. Throughout this work,
Fig. 1. Double-spending attack scenario: Honest miners mine their blocks to
the main chain in case of low transaction throughput aiming to get the payoff
of mining (blue blocks). At high transaction throughput honest miners and
attacker mine respectively to the fork chain (green blocks) and to their private
chain (red blocks).
we present an honest miner as Player I while a malicious
miner as Player II, each player has the incentive to win the
game by maximizing its payoff. The game depends essen-
tially on the transaction throughput, which is determined by
nature. Our game considers two throughput levels, High and
Low throughput, determined by the probabilities πH and πL
following the Poisson distribution such as πH + πL = 1. In
general, as studied in the literature, miners working in high
transaction throughput have a bigger probability of mining
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:57:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
their blocks in a fork other than the main chain, contrarily
in low throughput, the miners tend to mine in the main
Blockchain. This idea presents the key of our model, which
is investigated through its impact on the security level of
the system and the behavior of the miners. The probability
πH of high transaction throughput is defined following the
Poisson distribution using the parameters µ and K, which are
respectively a duration of time and the number of transactions
coming during this duration:
π(K > Kth) = πH =
e−µµK
K!
(1)
Where Kth is the throughput threshold which determines the
transactions’ type as follows: for K ≤ Kth and K > Kth cor-
respond respectively to low and high transactions throughput
levels.
B. Game Analysis
Our game models the interactions between two miners
working on validating blocks in the main Blockchain. Each
miner can be either an honest or malicious player regarding
its strategies and intentions. Some malicious miners work
simultaneously with the honest nodes by mining their blocks
to the private chain. These attackers wait while the main chain
seems shorter to publish their private chain and benefit from
mined blocks, knowing that in the case of multiple chains,
the longest one is considered the main chain. In addition to
the benefit of mining, malicious nodes may change the block
information to reuse their Bitcoin, called the double-spending
attack. In addition, with high transaction throughput, besides
the collision problem where the miners may choose the same
subset of transactions to include in the blocks, which causes
computation waste and reduces the number of blocks mined in
the system, miners may add their blocks to different forks. This
reduces the system’s security level, wastes the effort of honest
miners, and allows weaker attackers to reverse payments.
The strategy of an honest miner (Player I) is defined by its
actions depending on the throughput levels. At the same time,
the malicious node (Player II) chooses its strategy based on
the received signal from Player I and its belief in the received
signal. After choosing a strategy from its strategy set SI Player
I send a signal sx to Player II to inform them about its state
without knowing its nature. This signal allows the honest
miners to collaborate and mine on the main chain in high
throughput transactions. In case of the signal received by the
malicious node as Player II, Player I will send a biased signal
that can be identified only by honest miners who know the
sender’s history and the throughput type.
Formally, we write this as follows:
• Player I chooses its strategy from the set of strategies
SI = {qiqj , ...} and sends a signal sx to inform Player
II of its strategy, where qi (resp. qj) corresponds to the
action taken by Player I when the transaction throughput
is high (resp. low) such as i, j = 1, 2. Knowing that
Player I can either mine its block to the main chain
corresponding q2 or to the fork corresponding q1.
• Player II chooses its strategy from the set of strategies
SII = {pkpl, ...} and send a signal ry to respond to
player I, where pk (resp. ql) corresponds to the action
taken by Player II responding to Player I’s action such
as k, l = 1, 2. Knowing that Player II can either mine its
block to the private chain corresponding p1 or publish its
private chain corresponding p2.
The signal sent by Player I to Player II is determined based
on the throughput type as follow:
sx =

0 if qi = q1 and qj = q1,
1 if qi = q1 and qj = q2,
2 if qi = q2 and qj = q1,
3 if qi = q2 and qj = q2.
(2)
Player II responds by choosing a strategy from its set of
strategies based on the received signal and on its belief on
the Player I following the above formula. Such as the believe
of Player I on the Player II is designed as follow:
β(sx) =
{
0 if β ≤ βth,
1 Otherwise.
(3)
Where βth is the belief threshold of Player II, such as β(sx) =
1 means that Player II believe in the signal sent by Player I
while β(sx) = 1 signify that there is no trust between players.
The response of Player II is designed as follow:
rx =

0 if sx = 0 and β(sx) = 1,
1 if sx = 1 and β(sx) = 1,
2 if sx = 2 and β(sx) = 1,
3 if sx = 3 and β(sx) = 1.
(4)
ry =

0 if sx = 3 and β(sx) = 0,
1 if sx = 2 and β(sx) = 0,
2 if sx = 1 and β(sx) = 0,
3 if sx = 0 and β(sx) = 0.
(5)
Where rx = 0, 1, 2 or 3, (similarly ry = 0, 1, 2 or 3)
corresponds respectively to p1p1, p1p2, p2p1 and p2p2. Such
as the response rx is taken by Player II when he believes in
the received signal while ry is taken when he doesn’t believe.
In this game, each player has the incentive to maximize
its payoff to win the game by following the best strategy
that allows a bigger outcome. The payoff that both players
try to achieve is the Bitcoin amount paid for mining blocks,
while the malicious player will try to reverse its payment by
publishing its private chain. To efficiently study the interaction
between these two players, we designed a utility function for
each player where we defined the utility function of Player I
as follows:
UHI (K > Kth, qiqj , pkpl) = qi.wh.(1− pk.cI)
+qi.wm.(1− pk.cI).γ(qi, pk)
(6)
ULI (K ≤ Kth, qiqj , pkpl) = qj .(1− pl.cI) (7)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:57:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
UI(K, qiqj , pkpl) = πH .U
H
I + πL.U
L
I (8)
Where wh presents the gain for Player I from a successful
game while wm is the gain of player II from publishing its
private chain and reverse the payment. cI the risk of player
To lose the game, UHI (K > Kth, qiqj , pkpl) presents the
payoff of Player I playing the strategy qiqj for high incoming
transaction throughput against the strategy pkpl of Player II.
Similarly, ULI (K ≤ Kth, qiqj , pkpl) is the payoff of player
I for low transaction throughput, knowing that in this case,
honest players have the incentive to mine their blocks to the
main chain due to low transaction waiting for validation. While
γ(qi, pk) is defined as follow:
γ(qi, pk) =
{
−1 if qi = 0 and pk = 0,
1 Otherwise.
(9)
The utility of Player II is based essentially on the received
signal and on its belief in the sender. For simplicity, the utility
function is described as follow:
U1
II(K > Kth, β > βth, si, rx) = s̄i.r̄x.wm + si.rx.cI .wm
(10)
U2
II(K > Kth, β ≤ βth, si, ry) = s̄i.ry.cI .wm − si.r̄y.wm
(11)
U3
II(K ≤ Kth, β > βth, si, rx) = si.rx.cI .wm − si.r̄x.wm
(12)
U4
II(K ≤ Kth, β ≤ βth, si, ry) = s̄i.ry.cI .wm
−s̄i.ry.cI .wm
(13)
UII(K,β, si, rx, ry) = πH .(β.U
1
II + (1− β).U2
II)
+πL.(β.U
3
II + (1− β).U4
II)
(14)
Where s̄i, r̄x, and r̄y are respectively the complements of the
variables si , rx, and ry . The payoff of Player II is decomposed
into fourth parts based on the transaction throughput (K), its
belief on the received signal (β), the signal sent by Player I
(si), and on its strategy rx, ry corresponding respectively to
the case where it believes on the received signal and when it
doesn’t. The utility function of Player II was designed based
on the parameters mentioned above as follows: 1. Equation
(10) describes the payoff of Player II playing the strategy
rx and believes on the received signal si in high transaction
throughput. 2. Equation (11) presents the payoff in high
transaction throughout when Player II plays the strategy ry
without believing in the received signal si. 3. Equation (12)
depicts the payoff when Player II chooses to play the strategy
ry and believes on the received signal in low transaction
throughput. 4. The formula (13) determines the payoff when
Player II uses the strategy ry and does not believe in the signal
si with low transaction throughput. Finally, the formula (14)
summarizes the total payoff of Player II considering all the
cases. In the next section, we get the Nash equilibrium of the
game numerically with different scenarios. We recall that each
player aims to maximize its payoff.
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
This section presents the numerical results to study the
interactions between miners based on our proposed signaling
game. To this end, we built a simulator on Python considering
the behavior of players where two types of players are inves-
tigated. Wherein the honest player working to mine blocks
into the main chain while under the impact of the incoming
transaction throughput. The malicious player tries to reverse
payment by mining blocks in its private chain and publish
it whenever he can get benefits and win the game. We take
transaction threshold Kth = 10 t/h that determines the type of
the throughput as the average number of transactions per hour.
The gain of both players ranges from 0.1 Bitcoin to 5 Bitcoins
such as wh ≤ wm due to the attacker getting the payoff of
mining blocks and double-spending attacks benefits. The risk
of Player I to lose the game cI = 0.1 if K ≤ Kth and cI = 0.9
otherwise. Fig.2, presents the expected utility of Player I at the
Fig. 2. Pure strategies of Player I versus the incoming transaction waiting to
be included in a block.
equilibrium using its pure strategy against Player II’s actions
in the function of the transaction throughput K. The yellow
line depicts the expected payoff of Player I playing the strategy
q2 corresponding to mining in the main chain against Player
II publishing its private chain. This payoff increases when
the throughput is below the threshold due to the increase of
incoming transactions and the safe strategy taken by Player I.
The green and the red lines present the best results for low
transaction throughput, although the red line decreases more
than the green when K increases. This is due to the dispersed
effort of the honest miner while the attacker adds more blocks
to its private chain. Fig.3 shows the results of the expected
payoff of Player I for the mixed equilibrium strategy; such
action is assigned for each transaction throughput type (qiqj).
The payoff is calculated in function of the probability πH
regardless of Player II’s actions. We can see from this figure
that when Player I chooses to mine their block in the main
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:57:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3. Mixed equilibrium of Player I in function of the probability of high
throughput of incoming transaction.
chain (Yellow line), his payoff increases with the increase
of the probability πh. This is due to the high probability
that more transactions are waiting for validation which gives
miners more chance to benefit from mining blocks regarding
the maximum transaction allowed for each block. For high
probability, Player I gets a similar payoff as the yellow line
by playing the strategy q2q1 but with a low payoff for πH ≤
0.5. This means that it will gain an advantage from the private
chain by starting mining blocks to the main chain. The attacker
will need more computation capability to surpass the main
chain either for high transaction throughput. Otherwise, when
starting mining blocks in the fork chain for low transaction
throughput Player I will always lose the game against the
attacker. In Fig.4, we plot the expected utility of Player II
Fig. 4. Pure strategies of Player II versus the incoming transaction waiting
to be included in a block.
in the function of the transaction throughput. We can easily
see that the attacker can get a stable payoff when playing p2
against q2. While its payoff increases with K until reaching
some benefits when mining in its private chain against Player
I, who is mining in the fork chain. This gain is due to the
risk of Player I losing since the attacker is gaining advantages
against the main chain. Player II will lose when publishing his
private chain as Player I is mining in the main chain. Player
II wins the game when publishing his private chain as Player
I mines in the fork chain. We present in Fig.5 the expected
Fig. 5. Mixed equilibrium of Player II in function of the probability of high
throughput of incoming transaction.
utility of Player II for mixed equilibrium in the function of
the probability πH . The best strategy for Player II is p2p2
when taking the risk to publish its private chain regardless of
the type of the transaction throughput; this prevents the main
chain from taking advantage of the attacker chain. While the
other attacker starting by mining in his chain (p1, blue line) for
low transaction throughput followed by p2 will lose its payoff
while πH increases. The inverse of this strategy allows the
attacker to increase his payoff by the probability πH . Fig.6,
Fig. 6. Utility of Player II in function of its belief on received signal.
shows the expected utility of Player II as a function of its belief
in the received signals for low transaction throughput such as
s1 and s2, which correspond respectively to when Player I
informs Player II that it played the strategies q1 and q2. Player
II determines its belief on the received signal based on the
threshold th, which results in a change of behavior as shown
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:57:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
in the upper or lower sub-figure. The utility of both players
Fig. 7. Utility of players based on their behavior in function of the throughput.
following different scenarios is shown in Fig.7, depending on
the nature of the signal sent by Player I (true or biased) and
on the belief of Player II on the received signal (believe or
not). Fig.7 (a) shows results of Player I playing q1 and sends
a true signal while Player II believes the signal received. We
can see that the payoff of Player I decreases by telling the
truth about its strategy while it increases for Player II due to
its beliefs on the received signal. Fig.7 (b) shows results of
Player I playing q2 and sends a biased signal while Player II
does not believe in the received signal. In this case, the payoff
of Player I decreases to become negative in the function of K
when cheating to Player II. While the outcomes of this later
increase by the transaction throughput since it does not believe
in the received signal. In Fig.7 (c), both players got positive
utilities when Player I playing q2 and sending a biased signal,
and Player II believed in the received signal. In the last case
shown in Fig.7 (d), the payoff of Player I decreases when
he mines in a fork and sends a biased signal, and Player II
believes in the received signal.
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have investigated the impact of high
transaction throughput on the security level of IoT transac-
tions based on Bitcoin Blockchain. We proposed a signaling
game approach to model the interaction between miners while
considering their behaviors depending on the randomness of
the incoming transactions. Thanks to the capability of the
signaling game to handle non-complete information of the
throughput type, we reached the best policy to prevent attack-
ers from performing a double-spending attack. We performed
an extensive simulation study to identify the equilibrium of our
system depending on the behavior of players. Such as every
player works on maximizing its payoff by choosing its best
strategy regarding the opponent’s strategies. Consequently, we
obtained an equilibrium of our game through the simulation
where the risk of a transaction being spent twice is low. As
future work, we plan to extend our study to cover mining pool
characteristics, enhance our model for more crypto-currency
systems, and compare it with existing approaches in terms of
security strength.
REFERENCES
[1] M. A. Ferrag and L. Shu, “The performance evaluation of blockchain-
based security and privacy systems for the internet of things: A tutorial,”
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2021.
[2] C. Gandhi, N. Shukla, G. Kaur, and K. Yadav, “Blockchain technology:
Concept, applications, challenges, and security threats,” in Blockchain
Applications in IoT Ecosystem, pp. 77–104, Springer, 2021.
[3] H. Benaddi, K. Ibrahimi, H. Dahri, and A. Benslimane, “A framework
to secure cluster-header decision in wireless sensor network using
blockchain,” in International Conference on Advanced Communication
Systems and Information Security, pp. 205–218, Springer, 2019.
[4] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” tech.
rep., Manubot, 2019.
[5] S. Haber and W. S. Stornetta, “Secure names for bit-strings,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications
Security, pp. 28–35, 1997.
[6] P. Ratta, A. Kaur, S. Sharma, M. Shabaz, and G. Dhiman, “Application
of blockchain and internet of things in healthcare and medical sector:
applications, challenges, and future perspectives,” Journal of Food
Quality, vol. 2021, 2021.
[7] H. Benaddi and K. Ibrahimi, “A review: Collaborative intrusion detection
for iot integrating the blockchain technologies,” in 2020 8th Interna-
tional Conference on Wireless Networks and Mobile Communications
(WINCOM), pp. 1–6, IEEE, 2020.
[8] Y. Liu, K. Qian, K. Wang, and L. He, “Effective scaling of blockchain
beyond consensus innovations and moores law: Challenges and oppor-
tunities,” IEEE Systems Journal, 2021.
[9] S. Bouraga, “A taxonomy of blockchain consensus protocols: A sur-
vey and classification framework,” Expert Systems with Applications,
vol. 168, p. 114384, 2021.
[10] Y. Sompolinsky and A. Zohar, “Secure high-rate transaction processing
in bitcoin,” in International Conference on Financial Cryptography and
Data Security, pp. 507–527, Springer, 2015.
[11] G. Karame, E. Androulaki, and S. Capkun, “Two bitcoins at the price
of one? double-spending attacks on fast payments in bitcoin.,” IACR
Cryptol. ePrint Arch., vol. 2012, no. 248, pp. 1–17, 2012.
[12] G. O. Karame, E. Androulaki, and S. Capkun, “Double-spending fast
payments in bitcoin,” in Proceedings of the 2012 ACM conference on
Computer and communications security, pp. 906–917, 2012.
[13] Y. Lewenberg, Y. Sompolinsky, and A. Zohar, “Inclusive block chain
protocols,” in International Conference on Financial Cryptography and
Data Security, pp. 528–547, Springer, 2015.
[14] E. Altman, D. Menasché, A. Reiffers-Masson, M. Datar, S. Dhamal,
C. Touati, and R. El-Azouzi, “Blockchain competition between miners:
a game theoretic perspective,” Frontiers in Blockchain, vol. 2, p. 26,
2020.
[15] N. Alzahrani and N. Bulusu, “Towards true decentralization: A
blockchain consensus protocol based on game theory and randomness,”
in International Conference on Decision and Game Theory for Security,
pp. 465–485, Springer, 2018.
[16] R. Singh, A. D. Dwivedi, G. Srivastava, A. Wiszniewska-Matyszkiel, and
X. Cheng, “A game theoretic analysis of resource mining in blockchain,”
Cluster Computing, vol. 23, no. 3, pp. 2035–2046, 2020.
[17] S. Motepalli and H.-A. Jacobsen, “Reward mechanism for blockchains
using evolutionary game theory,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2104.05849,
2021.
[18] Z. Liu, N. C. Luong, W. Wang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, Y.-C. Liang, and
D. I. Kim, “A survey on applications of game theory in blockchain,”
arXiv preprint arXiv:1902.10865, 2019.
[19] M. Jouhari, K. Ibrahimi, H. Tembine, M. Benattou, and J. Ben Othman,
“Signaling game approach to improve the mac protocol in the underwater
wireless sensor networks,” International Journal of Communication
Systems, vol. 32, no. 13, p. e3971, 2019.
[20] C. Boudagdigue, A. Benslimane, and A. Kobbane, “Cluster-based cer-
tificate revocation in industrial iot networks using signaling game,” in
GLOBECOM 2020 IEEE Global Communications Conference, pp. 1–6,
IEEE, 2020.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:57:01 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
		2022-08-24T22:32:05-0400
	Preflight Ticket Signature