Towards Future Internet: The Metaverse Perspective for Diverse Industrial Applications
Citation: Bhattacharya, P.; Saraswat,
D.; Savaliya, D.; Sanghavi, S.; Verma,
A.; Sakariya, V.; Tanwar, S.; Sharma,
R.; Raboaca, S.M.; Manea, D.L.
Towards Future Internet: The
Metaverse Perspective for Diverse
Industrial Applications. Mathematics
2023, 11, 941. https://doi.org/
10.3390/math11040941
Academic Editors: Jim (Junmin) Shi,
Aichih Chang and Haibing Lu
Received: 9 January 2023
Revised: 5 February 2023
Accepted: 9 February 2023
Published: 13 February 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
mathematics
Article
Towards Future Internet: The Metaverse Perspective for Diverse
Industrial Applications
Pronaya Bhattacharya 1 , Deepti Saraswat 2, Darshan Savaliya 2, Sakshi Sanghavi 2, Ashwin Verma 2,
Vatsal Sakariya 2, Sudeep Tanwar 2,* , Ravi Sharma 3, Maria Simona Raboaca 4,5,* and Daniela Lucia Manea 6
1 Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Amity School of Engineering and Technology and
Research and Innovation Cell, Amity University, Kolkata 700135, West Bengal, India
2 Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Institute of Technology, Nirma University,
Ahmedabad 382481, Gujarat, India
3 Centre for Inter-Disciplinary Research and Innovation, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies,
Dehradun 248001, Uttarakhand, India
4 Doctoral School, University Politehnica of Bucharest, Splaiul Independentei Street, No. 313,
060042 Bucharest, Romania
5 National Research and Development Institute for Cryogenic and Isotopic Technologies—ICSI Rm. Vâlcea,
Uzinei Street, No. 4, P.O. Box 10 7 Râureni, 240050 Râmnicu Vâlcea, Romania
6 Faculty of Civil Engineering, Technical University of Cluj-Napoca, Constantin Daicoviciu Street, No. 15,
400020 Cluj-Napoca, Romania
* Correspondence: sudeep.tanwar@nirmauni.ac.in (S.T.); simona.raboaca@icsi.ro (M.S.R.)
Abstract: The Metaverse allows the integration of physical and digital versions of users, processes,
and environments where entities communicate, transact, and socialize. With the shift towards Ex-
tended Reality (XR) technologies, the Metaverse is envisioned to support a wide range of applicative
verticals. It will support a seamless mix of physical and virtual worlds (realities) and, thus, will
be a game changer for the Future Internet, built on the Semantic Web framework. The Metaverse
will be ably assisted by the convergence of emerging wireless communication networks (such as
Fifth-Generation and Beyond networks) or Sixth-Generation (6G) networks, Blockchain (BC), Web
3.0, Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs). It has the potential for convergence
in diverse industrial applications such as digital twins, telehealth care, connected vehicles, virtual
education, social networks, and financial applications. Recent studies on the Metaverse have focused
on explaining its key components, but a systematic study of the Metaverse in terms of industrial
applications has not yet been performed. Owing to this gap, this survey presents the salient features
and assistive Metaverse technologies. We discuss a high-level and generic Metaverse framework
for modern industrial cyberspace and discuss the potential challenges and future directions of the
Metaverse’s realization. A case study on Metaverse-assisted Real Estate Management (REM) is pre-
sented, where the Metaverse governs a Buyer–Broker–Seller (BBS) architecture for land registrations.
We discuss the performance evaluation of the current land registration ecosystem in terms of cost
evaluation, trust probability, and mining cost on the BC network. The obtained results show the
viability of the Metaverse in REM setups.
Keywords: 6G; artificial intelligence; blockchain; extended reality; Metaverse; non-fungible tokens;
Web 3.0
MSC: 68M11
1. Introduction
Recently, there has been a progressive shift in virtual space, and technologies such as
Mixed Reality (MR) and Extended Reality (XR) have promised cyber users the next level
of visual interaction. These technologies allow a close interaction between the virtual and
the physical space and have opened up innovation and industrial opportunities. This shift
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941. https://doi.org/10.3390/math11040941 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/mathematics
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11040941
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11040941
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/mathematics
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1206-2298
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1776-4651
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7277-4377
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11040941
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/mathematics
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/math11040941?type=check_update&version=2
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 2 of 41
is possible due to technical advancements in computer vision, Three-Dimensional (3D)
rendering engines, and access to Graphical Processing Units (GPUs). XR is increasingly
deployed in mainstream applications such as gaming, infotainment services, healthcare,
and 3D avatar designs [1]. With technical advancements in deep learning, responsive
analytics, and security integration over open communication channels, the physical and
virtual world’s barriers are fast diminishing. This integration has uplifted the Metaverse, a
term that was coined to represent the virtual world, or space, where humans, applications,
processes, and services interact and affect one another. The term Meta is a Greek word
meaning beyond, and verse means universe. The “Metaverse” was initially coined in 1992 by
Neal Stephenson in his novel, Snow Crash.
The Metaverse is closely related to cyberspace and defines user interaction between
real and digital worlds. The Metaverse is defined as a holistic space in the virtual world,
where multiple worlds can also intermix, and the concept is often called the Omniverse [2].
The Metaverse’s initial prominence rose via Fortnite, which is accessible via VR headsets
and allows users to create, buy, and sell objects. However, the term Meta attracted people’s
attention in October 2021 when Facebook rebranded itself as Meta [3]. In the same period,
immediately after this rebranding was announced, another technical giant, Microsoft,
also announced its vision and entry into the Metaverse market. Their vision is to build
an environment where people not only interact socially with others, but can create a
working space and use it. They called this Mesh, where people come to their virtual
offices and interact and discuss their meeting agendas in a shared space. The usage
of Mesh for Microsoft Teams has increased significantly owing to the global pandemic.
Productivity experts’ analysis has revealed that the virtual meeting space allows a high level
of interaction among remote workers and is a positive tool for building relationships. The
engagement levels have increased significantly, which has improved the working dynamics.
Seeing the positive aspects, Microsoft shifted towards a merger with Activision Blizzard
Inc. [4], and the vision is to accelerate the development of Metaverse gaming platforms
in a wide array of mobile platforms and personal computers. The merger was estimated
to be valued at USD 68.7 billion. These developments have propelled the Metaverse and
social communities to be omnipresent and from the comfort of home. With the Metaverse
being developed, the Internet will create communities and facilitate experiences that exist
alongside physical reality [5]. Another joint venture by Microsoft, Meta, and Accenture
is in deployment. Meta Quest Pro has been set up to bring real immersive experiences
during Mesh meetings or socializing with other persons (via avatars or real forms) [6].
The is venture working toward developing high-resolution sensor-based LCD designs that
capture eye-tracking movements and facial expressions to make the avatars more realistic
and lively. Currently, the deployment is in VR and supports various applications such as
Microsoft Teams, Office 365, Microsoft Intune, and Azure active directory setups.
The Metaverse will have a device-agnostic and cross-platform experience [7], meaning
that it will be accessible regardless of which devices are used and will support open, decen-
tralized applications. In reality, the Metaverse might come across as a fantasy world at first
instance. The idea of interacting in a multi-dimensional environment has encouraged the
development of new technologies to synergize and augment its functionality. Technically,
three key components will build the Metaverse, namely the hardware resources (GPU
and I/O), base communication networks such as Sixth-Generation (6G) networks, and
artificial-intelligence (AI)-enabled models [8,9]. It is operational on the underlying Web 3.0
technology, which is intelligent and fully decentralized, supports transactional payments
via Blockchains (BC), and is supported via Non-Fungible-Token (NFT)-enabled cryptocur-
rencies. Web 3.0 allows the semantic interpretation of context and allows users to interact
with machines more intelligently. The Web 3.0 front will support tailored Smart Contracts
(SCs) or chain codes to automate transactions on Decentralized Applications (DApps). It
will support custom consensus protocols that drive business logic across industry verticals.
In the industrial front, companies such as Meta (previously Facebook) are working on
devices such as the Oculus Quest to bring the immersive vision a step closer. Games such as
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 3 of 41
Beat Saber and GTA San Andreas have already shifted to the Metaverse, and these games
allow players to interact immersively and also allow objects to be traded online [10]. The
scope currently is more limited to gaming, but will expand soon. The fitness sector will also
transform with the advent of the Metaverse, and virtual outdoor activities such as body
exercises, gym training, and 3D meetings will be conducted [11]. It also has the potential to
revolutionize the education sector as students can study in virtual classrooms that will feel
like a physical classroom with co-students [12]. It will also support industry applications
such as digital twins to model real-time industry processes [13]. In healthcare [14], the
Metaverse will support telesurgery and 3D anatomy, bringing new insights and significant
developments to healthcare. Table 1 presents the list of abbreviations and their descriptions.
Table 1. Abbreviations and their meanings.
Abbreviations Meanings Abbreviations Meanings
3D Three-Dimensional HSPA High-Speed Packet Access
4G Fourth-Generation IoG Internet-of-Gaming
5G Fifth-Generation IPFS Interplanetary File System
6G Sixth-Generation LLC Limited Liability Company
AI Artificial Intelligence LTE Long-Term Evolution
AoI Age-of-Information MEC Multi-Access Edge Computing
API Application Programming Interface ML Machine Learning
AR Augmented Reality mMIMO massive Multiple-Input, Multiple-Output
BBS Buyer–Broker–Seller mMTC massive Machine-Type Communications
BC Blockchain mmWave millimeter Wave
CAD Computer-Aided Design MR Mixed Reality
CAGR Compounded Annual Growth Rate NFT Non-Fungible Token
COVID-19 Novel Coronavirus Disease-2019 NPC Non-Player Character
CSS Cascading Style Sheets QoE Quality-of-Experience
DAO Decentralized Autonomous Organization SCs Smart Contracts
DApps Decentralized Applications UI User Interaction
eMBB enhanced Mobile Broadband uRLLC ultra-Reliable Low-Latency Communications
ERLLC Enhanced uRLLC V2X Vehicle-to-Anything
EVM Ethereum Virtual Machine VR Virtual Reality
FeMBB Further eMBB XAI Explainable AI
GPU Graphics Processing Unit XR Extended Reality
In real-world setups, tech companies are integrating many avant-garde technologies
to realize the vision of the Future Internet. Some of these technologies include AR and VR,
3D virtual space, BC, holographic projection (WIMI six-dimensional light field technology),
6G-enabled holographic communication, AI models (with explainable modules for inter-
pretability), massive content-centric Internet-of-Things (mC-IoT), and Web 3.0. Spark AR, a
studio tool, was launched by Meta in 2017 to enable users to create their AR effects [15]. AI
aids the Metaverse experience by providing features such as face tracking, object detection,
segmentation, sentiment recognition, voice control, and others. Low latency and higher
bandwidth are also critical for smooth interactions in the Metaverse. Service innovation
in 6G technologies would be crucial to provide real-time Quality-of-Experience (QoE) to
the users [16]. The economy of the Metaverse is based on trading and ownership. Cryp-
tocurrencies are for trading, while the ownership transfer is managed via NFTs [17]. Thus,
it will be the Future Internet, where all sorts of physical activities will be shifted to a digital
avatar. This will allow the world to become a global digital community and bridge the
gap in trading, socializing, and interacting without boundaries, increasing the connectivity
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 4 of 41
of a user at the remotest end. Table 2 presents projects initiated in key domains to assist
the Metaverse by different industry giants. The key focus is to drive applications toward
digital platforms that assist users intelligently in diving into a seamless space and trade
effectively on decentralized applications.
Table 2. Future Internet: key industry projects in Metaverse and assistive technologies.
Project Objective Company Domain Release Date
Decentraland [18]
A 3D virtual world browser-based platform.
Users buy virtual plots of land in the
platform as NFTs via the MANA
cryptocurrency, which uses the Ethereum BC.
Decentraland
Foundation NFT, BC February 2020
Cryptovoxels [19]
A virtual world where users can buy land
and build on it using the resources to
customize an avatar with the provided
wearable.
Voxel Inc. NFT, BC 2018
Illuviam [20]
A 3D role-playing game on the Ethereum
blockchain built with the help of the
decentralized autonomous
organization Illuviam.
Illuviam Inc. NFT, BC September 2020
Axie Infinity [21] A Pokemon-inspired play-to-earn game
created on the Ethereum BC. Sky Mavis NFT, BC March 2020
Gather [22] A video chat platform designed to make
virtual interactions more human. Gather Presence Inc. VR May 2020
Aria [23]
Project Aria is a research device that is worn
like regular glasses and would help users
build the software. It includes a live map of
3D spaces and the hardware necessary for
future AR devices.
Facebook AR September 2020
Mesh [24]
Mesh is an MR platform intended to make
collaboration and app creation easier. The
solution is designed to work with various VR
and AR headsets, allowing users to
collaborate in both physical and virtual
locations more effectively.
Microsoft AR and VR April 2021
Activision Blizzard [25]
Gaming industry venture with the Activision
Blizzard company, where simple games such
as Warcraft, Diablo, Call of Duty, and Candy
Crush will be built over a virtual space.
Microsoft and
Activision Blizzard AR and VR 2022
Hololens 2 [4]
AR-based device and successor to the
Microsoft Microvision head-mounted
display.
Microsoft AR 2019
Omniverse [26]
A multi-GPU reference development
platform to create scalable
Metaverse applications.
NVIDIA AR and VR April 2021
MetaQuest Pro [6]
Eye-tracking-based VR headsets that capture
natural facial expressions to add realistic
gestures for Microsoft Teams, Microsoft 365,
and Azure active directory support.
Microsoft, Meta, and
Accenture AR 2022
Omniverse [26]
A multi-GPU reference development
platform to create scalable Metaverse
applications. This provides a platform to
operate the Metaverse applications in
real-time.
NVIDIA AR and VR April 2021
Star Atlas [27]
A Metaverse that introduces a unique
gaming experience by harnessing the power
of traditional core games and BC mechanics.
Crunchbase Entertainment August 2021
Horizon [28] A social platform to help people create and
interact with each other in the Metaverse. Meta AR and VR December 2021
Bloktopia [29]
Skyscraper made up of 21 levels to pay
recognition to 21 million Bitcoins. It will act
as a central hub and welcome all levels of the
crypto experience.
Polygon Cryptocurrency, BC March 2022
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 5 of 41
Table 2. Cont.
Project Objective Company Domain Release Date
Cambria [30]
Project Cambria is a new VR headset like
Oculus Quest. The only difference is it will
include the capability of real-time
VR interactions.
Meta VR September 2022
Roblox [31]
Its primary focus is the creation of the virtual
world in the existing gaming environment.
Available for almost all platforms and
provides flexibility to both creators and
players.
Roblox Corporation Cryptocurrency, AR,
and VR September 2022
Otherside [32]
A gamified Metaverse currently under
development. It will be an online multiplayer
gaming platform. Users will be allowed to
build their assets and interact
with other players.
Yuga Labs Cryptocurrency, AR,
and VR Yet to be released
CAIRaoke [33]
Project CAIRaoke is an AI assistant that is
integrated with AR and VR devices to enable
immersive, multimodal interactions with
assistants in the future.
Meta Explainable AI Yet to be released
In the Metaverse, some popular use cases on real estate management, e-skills training,
and online shopping experience through AR and VR are already operational. For example,
in Decentraland [18], a virtual ecosystem is presented to persons who wish to buy and sell
land properties. Virtual tours are conducted, and the transactional aspects are handled
through NFT assets. In the education sector [34], technologies such as XR and Metaverse
projection will greatly improve e-skills’ training and development, as the gap between
theory and visualization in practical aspects will be reduced. Furthermore, the decentral-
ization of the Metaverse using Web 3.0 will allow customers to buy goods online from
another country and have them shipped to their digital home [35]. Hence, the Metaverse
will enable people to trade irrespective of their geographical location, making the world a
huge global community. The Metaverse is potentially a disruption that will revolutionize
different industrial and application domains.
1.1. Market Trends and Research Activities
Recent innovations in AR and VR have boosted the global economy. As per a report
by Crunchbase News [36], USD 1.9 billion of venture capital are being invested in software
and hardware to support the Metaverse. It can potentially boost the global economy by
1.5 trillion jobs. Owing to the global pandemic, the Metaverse’s progress has been in-
creased four-fold. The NFT purchases rose to USD 2.5 billion during the novel Coronavirus
Disease-2019 (COVID-19) global second peak around May–August 2021. As per the report
by Influencer Marketing Hub, the revenue generated by companies that have adopted the
Metaverse as a key technology is expected to reach a staggering figure of USD 800 billion
by 2024 [37], which resonates with the increase in the AR and VR markets’ revenue, which
is predicted to ≈USD 300 billion by the same year.
At the research front, industry–academia collaborative grants are offered. Reality Labs
has granted 17 live project grants amounting to CAD 510,000 to design effective hardware
and GPU resources to support the Metaverse [38]. Meta has also announced an invest-
ment of USD 2.5 million for independent academic research in Europe for the Metaverse.
Comprehensively, the global Metaverse market is expected to reach USD 1607.12 billion
by 2030, at a Compounded Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of 43.3%. Object recognition,
tacking, and AI-assisted AR and VR projects have started to support motion assistance.
Explainable AI models are built in such scenarios to ensure fairness and interpretability.
In smart manufacturing, project XMANAI has demonstrated four real-life manufacturing
cases, where explainable models are built for collecting the data of human-in-the-loop over
AI models [39]. Likewise, Tiktok purchased a Chinese VR headset manufacturer named
Pico [40]. On gaming platforms, games such Robolox and Fortnite are designed with trad-
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 6 of 41
ing and immersive interactions with peer gamers [41]. Walmart is expected to launch a
smart VR-assisted online shopping platform for try-on for buyers. Microsoft HoloLens [42]
enables medical professionals to collaborate on a surgical operation using hand gestures
and voice commands. NVIDIA recently launched the Omniverse Avatar [43], a platform to
create real-time self-driven AI avatars that can see, talk, and converse about various topics.
Figure 1 presents the article’s overall organization and reading map.
IntroductionI Market Trends and 
Research Activities Survey Contributions Article Structure
The Review 
Method
II The review and article selection 
process The research questions
Related 
Work
III Survey Necessity and Gaps
Nuts and 
Bolts of 
Future 
Internet: 
Metaverse 
Key Drivers
IV
The evolution timeline 
of Metaverse-assistive 
technologies
NFTs, BCs, and 
Cryptocurrency
Immersive 
Experience: Extended 
Reality
Communication 
Networks
Decentralizing the 
Metaverse: Web 3.0
V
A Metaverse 
Architecture
: A 
functional 
perspective
Applications 
of 
Metaverse 
in Industrial 
a 5.0 
applications
VI
Manufacturing
Internet of 
Senses Marketing Industry
Education
Internet of Bio-
Things
Vehicle to 
Everything
Internet of 
Gaming
Challenges 
and Future 
Directions
VII
Ownership 
of NFTs
Security in 
NFT
High bandwidth and low 
latency requirement
Network 
security
Wide-scale adoption 
of hardware
Harmless 
devices
Bulky AR/VR 
gadgets
High quality 
input data
Accuracy in 
predictions
AI is a 
blackbox
A unified reference 
framework
Decentralized 
Web
Case-Study: 
BC-assisted 
Metaverse 
Real Estate 
Managemen
t
VIII
Traditional 
approach Proposed Approach
Application 
Interface
Backend and 
Business Logic
Connection with the 
Metaverse
Performance 
Evalution
DiscussionsIX
Concluding NotesX
Role of AI in 
Metaverse
Avatar Generation and Scenario Description
The proposed Reference architecture
Flow Diagram between users and components in the proposed 
architecture
Figure 1. Organization and reading map.
1.2. Survey Contributions
The survey contributions of the article are summarized as follows:
1. A generic Metaverse architecture is proposed with a functional perspective to support
the Future Internet use-cases in industrial applications such as healthcare, finance,
infotainment and gaming, and vehicular networks. The architecture presents Web 3.0
as an engineering frontend and communicates with applications through 6G-assisted
virtual service endpoints.
2. The open challenges and future directions of the Metaverse in terms of cryptocurrency,
communication, and AI aspects are presented.
3. The effectiveness of the proposed scheme is presented through a proposed case study
on Metaverse-assisted real estate management, and we compared our scheme with the
traditional SC-based Buyer–Broker–Seller (BBS) architecture in terms of parameters
such as realization cost, trust probability, and the number of transactions (to address
the scalability of diverse connections) with traditional approaches.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 7 of 41
1.3. Article Structure
The article is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the survey’s review process.
Section 3 presents the existing surveys on the Metaverse and highlights the necessity of the
proposed survey, where existing gaps are presented. Section 4 presents the background of
key assistive Metaverse technologies. Section 5 presents the generic Metaverse architecture
from a generic functional viewpoint. Section 6 presents the integration of the Metaverse
with different industrial applications. Section 7 discusses the open issues and future
directions. Section 8 discusses the proposed case study, with an experimental evaluation
with an SC-enabled BBS architecture. Section 9 presents the discussion of the Metaverse’s
realization and lessons learned in the Metaverse’s deployment in real-world scenarios.
Finally, Section 10 presents the concluding remarks and the future scope of work.
2. The Review Method
This section discusses the review selection process and presents the research questions
to propose and outline the survey. The details are presented as follows.
2.1. The Review and Article Selection Process
Figure 2 presents the article selection and the inclusion–exclusion process. The selec-
tion process followed the guidelines by Brereton et al. [44], who outlined the pre-process to
be followed for conducting a survey.
Figure 2. Article selection and inclusion–exclusion process.
We started by selecting articles explicitly related to the Metaverse, and we found
that the related literature is specific to 3 years, i.e., 2021 and 2022. Before 2021, articles
were not selected, as they did not directly link to the Metaverse and focused on essential
discussions of NFTs, AR and VR realization, and the basics of web applications. This shows
an absence of articles focused on the Metaverse in the literature database. Initially, we
used search strings such as “the Metaverse”, “AR and VR in Industry”, “Web 3.0, Modern
Internet”, “Metaverse, Metaverse and industry”, “Web 3.0 and NFTs”, “Blockchain and
Metaverse”, “Metaverse and networks”, “Metaverse and 5G”, and “Metaverse and 6G” to
search the titles, abstracts, and article bodies. Some useful links to projects, key conferences
in computer vision, and invited talks by leading experts were found. We referred to the
databases IEEE Xplore, ACM Library, Springer, and ScienceDirect to find the relevant
papers. In the first attempt, we found 233 articles that fit our scope, but we rejected 36
articles due to misleading titles. Next, we excluded 32 more articles based on the abstracts’
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 8 of 41
relevance and the conclusions to support our requirements. Thus, our search narrowed this
to 165 articles, excluding 28 articles based on the full text. This left us with only relevant
articles to support the survey. However, some articles still had common studies with web
links/portals, which led us to further exclude more 26 articles. Finally, we present the 109
articles/web links/talks as part of the survey’s reference.
2.2. The Research Questions
Before starting the survey, the authors brainstormed and presented the research
questions to highlight the survey objectives. Table 3 presents the identified research
questions and the objectives they were expected to meet through the proposed survey.
The research questions are presented keeping in mind the changing technical landscape of
Web 3.0 and its potential to support the Metaverse. Furthermore, technical advancements
in communication technologies such as 5G and Beyond networks to support the smooth
functioning of the Metaverse avatars were considered. Finally, we focused on a holistic core
for the Metaverse to support industrial applications with a generic reference architecture.
Table 3. Research questions to be addressed in the proposed survey.
Q. No. Research Question Objective
RQ 1 What is the research carried out on the
Metaverse and its potential domains?
To present a comparative analysis of the
existing Metaverse studies, which helps
identify the gaps in existing studies.
RQ 2 What are the key drivers that allow the
Metaverse to realize the Future Internet?
To study the key drivers that build the
Metaverse and support the Future Internet.
RQ 3 How has the Metaverse progressed?
To discuss the insights of the Metaverse’s
timeline and the supporting timeline for the
assistive technologies.
RQ 4
How do we include the Metaverse as a
solution to support Web 3.0 engines in a
generic sense?
To formulate a Metaverse’s architecture and
present the functional perspective to support
the Future Internet via Web 3.0.
RQ 5 How can the Metaverse benefit Industry
5.0 and its applications?
To conceptualize the integration of the
Metaverse in diverse industrial applications
such as manufacturing, marketing,
Internet-of-Senses, education,
Internet-of-Bio-Things, vehicles, and gaming.
RQ 6 What are the challenges in realizing the
Metaverse and potential directions?
To study the Metaverse’s challenges in
crypto-ownership and AR and VR rendering
and its interplay with
communication networks.
RQ 7
Is there a practical use-case (currently
proposed by industry) on which the
Metaverse can be realized?
To conceptualize and study a practical
Metaverse-assisted use-case in the current
market scenario and highlight its
performance indicators.
3. Related Work
This section provides the surveys related to the Metaverse and its assistive technolo-
gies. Table 4 presents a comparative study of existing works with the proposed survey. The
section is designed to achieve the objectives of RQ 1. In AR and VR and the networking
domain, Bhattacharya et al. [1] proposed a survey that integrated 6G and BC to support
AR and VR environments. The work presented a solution taxonomy concerning AR and
VR from a communication and security point of view in different industry verticals. The
survey did not highlight the resource support and AI role in the AR and VR applications.
Lee et al. [45] presented a comprehensive review of the Metaverse’s development in user-
centric designs. The latest technologies to build the Metaverse and the potential pitfalls
were presented. In the industrial domain, Far et al. [46] presented an applicative digital
twin for the Metaverse and proposed a three-tier architecture that links IoT objects and
the Metaverse. Finally, a set of challenges, solutions, and future work was discussed for
integrating digital twins with the Metaverse environment. Xu et al. [? ] highlighted the ar-
chitecture, state-of-the-art implementations, solution taxonomy, and frameworks currently
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 9 of 41
utilized in the Metaverse environment. The work also focused on using BC-based edge
networks for cloud–edge and computation-efficient AI techniques in resource-constrained
networks. Yang et al. [48] presented the economic assets in the Metaverse implementation
and discussed the fusion of BC and AI to store distributed AI models of the Metaverse,
with potential directions for security and data collection. Luca Turchet [49] proposed a
survey on the potential of a musical Metaverse, which sets up exciting opportunities in the
Internet-of-Musical-Things eco-space. An integrative XR-related platform was suggested,
and for music ownership transfer, the NFT assets of artists were considered. Special atten-
tion to digital rights was also given, and recommendation models were presented for the
music choice of the other user. However, privacy and ethical concerns were not discussed.
The authors in [50] presented an opinion-mining scheme for NFT transfers in the education
industry and suggested thinking, making, sharing, and improving a model that enhances
Metaverse-assisted education. Zhang et al. [51] presented a healthcare framework in the
Metaverse, where the healthcare data are stored on public servers and are analyzed for
predictions. To respect the privacy of healthcare records, attribute-based encryption was
presented with minimal overheads to support a large number of concurrent client requests.
A simulation was performed on the PBC library for scalability and latency, and the model
showed better performance with a good level of security.
Table 4. Comparison of existing state-of-the-art research and the proposed survey.
Author Year Objective 1 2 3 4 Pros Cons
Ning et al. [52] 2021
Surveyed the state-of-the-
art, as well as applications
of the Metaverse.
Y N N N
Presented a three-tier frame-
work of the Metaverse from the
social, technology, and spatial
points of view along with shed-
ding light on the first applica-
tions
Provided only a primary glance
at the Metaverse.
Zhu et al. [53] 2022
Proposed a flexible Meta-
verse AI framework to aid
semantics and language
processing for digital
twins and virtual human
technology.
Y N N N
The developed framework pro-
vides a common solution for dif-
ferent AI technologies in an in-
dustrial scenario with common
functionalities and interfaces.
Did not provide scalability to
big data and web architectures.
It did not discuss an end-to-end
architecture.
Alpala et al. [54] 2022
Presented a framework on
smart factories using VR
and an online multi-user
Metaverse environment.
Y N N Y
The proposed experimental
framework provides a low-cost
solution for smart factories in
a virtual environment through
the implementation of a low-
powered VR Metaverse.
Did not address the security
features in case of attacks by
multiple users. Furthermore,
the framework does not employ
a communication network be-
tween the physical and virtual
worlds.
Wei et al. [55] 2022
Proposed a BC-based pro-
fessional certification and
travel platform.
Y Y N N
Developed a combined educa-
tion and tourism online travel
platform for the participation of
millions of users and providing
certification. The platform also
enables earning NFTs, awards as
a token to learning.
Did not discuss the user inter-
face with the framework, nor
bandwidth constraints.
Kang et al. [56] 2022
Proposed BC-enabled feder-
ated learning for the indus-
trial Metaverse using the
optimal incentive scheme.
Y Y N N
Developed a privacy-preserving
framework for IIoT data in
both physical and virtual spaces
through a hierarchical architec-
ture using the age of informa-
tion smart contract model.
Did not incorporate system per-
formance using 5G/6G commu-
nication networks.
Pan et al. [57] 2022
Proposed a 5G mo-
bile multi-access-edge-
computing (MEC)-enabled
Metaverse-based light-field
video system.
Y N Y Y
The proposed work captured
real-world scenes with reduced
latency using edge–cloud collab-
oration in the Metaverse sce-
nario with the backdrop of the
5G communication network.
Time consuming compared to
commercially available stream-
ing media services.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 10 of 41
Table 4. Cont.
Author Year Objective 1 2 3 4 Pros Cons
Chu et al. [58] 2022
Provided a novel frame-
work for resource allocation
in the Metaverse.
Y N N N
Provided a dynamic and effec-
tive solution for managing dif-
ferent types of resources for
Metaverse applications under
a resource-constrained environ-
ment and outperformed the con-
ventional methodology in terms
of resource utilization (quality
of service) and acceptance prob-
ability.
The communication network to
collect IoT data was not dis-
cussed.
Lee et al. [59] 2022
Studied the impacts of
Metaverse and VR togeth-
erness to foster teacher
education and sustainable
learning.
Y N N Y
Provided an effective platform
for the readiness of teachers in
terms of technology and peda-
gogical parameters.
The study handled the limited
participation and technical limi-
tations of VR and the Metaverse
environment.
Panagiotakopoulos et al. [60] 2022
Discussed digital scent tech-
nology for iOS and the
Metaverse.
Y N Y N
Proposed digital synthesis and
recognition of human senses
and the olfactory sense for uti-
lization in various applications
connected to the Metaverse with
the backdrop of the 6G commu-
nication network.
Lack of understanding and
availability of the olfactory
holography technique, model-
ing, and perfect reproduction
through captured scent data.
Tang et al. [61] 2022
Reviewed the roadmap
for communication and
networking requirements
for 6G in the Metaverse
environment.
Y N Y N
Detailed, identified, and dis-
cussed critical components of
the Metaverse for integration at
different stages with 6G.
Lack of standard network ac-
cess, routing, and congestion
protocols for the heterogeneous
nature of the Metaverse net-
work.
Yan et al. [62] 2022
A concurrent vision model
that was based on incre-
mental training for video
captioning was discussed
using local granularity rep-
resentation.
N N Y Y
Enhanced the descriptive
semantic vocabulary and
improved the linguistic repre-
sentation for video content
The integration of multimodel
information to capture prefer-
ences dynamically was missing.
Luca Turchet [49] 2023
The author presented a sur-
vey on the musical Meta-
verse and identified the
artistic compositions, copy-
rights, and transfer of mu-
sic ownerships in the Meta-
verse.
Y N N Y
A first of kind survey that
bridges the gap between the
semantic Internet-of-Musical
Things and user interactions.
The evaluation of the musi-
cal Metaverse and associated
measured parameters for perfor-
mance was not discussed.
Yohan Hwang [50] 2023
An empirical survey of the
effect of the Metaverse in
digital content creation and
NFT transfers. Sentiment
analysis was conducted,
where the digital comments
(opinion mining) were
presented to improve the
content quality.
Y Y N Y Digital copyrights and transfer
details were presented in depth.
Authorization and security is-
sues regarding the creation of
fake copies were not discussed.
Proposed 2023
Proposed a BC-assisted
Metaverse for real estate
applications.
Y Y Y Y
Utilized a VR and BC-enabled
architecture with the backdrop
of the 6G communications net-
work along with a discussion of
the performance evaluation.
-
1, Metaverse; 2, blockchain; 3, 5G/6G; 4, AR and VR/XR; Y, the parameter was taken into account; N, the
parameter was not taken into account.
In the tourism sector, Dongying Wei [55] presented a novel architecture, Gemiverse,
which integrates BC-enabled professional tourism certification and a travel platform. The
developed platform includes online travel, gameplay, learn-and-earn, and long-term
growth in business through the support of mobile applications (via iOS and Android)
with real-time UX support. Chu et al. [58] proposed Metaslicing, a multi-tier semi-Markov
framework for efficient resource allocation in the Metaverse. The scheme implements
two techniques and an algorithm for optimal policy decisions to meet the Metaverse’s
dynamics and uncertainty of resources. The results showed a long-term revenue of up to
80% for the Metaverse providers. The authors in [56] proposed a federated learning and
BC-based framework for the industrial Metaverse. To enhance privacy, they presented
an Age-of-Information (AoI) metric, which defines the age of shared contracts between
multiple industrial nodes. Alpala et al. [54] presented a VR-based Metaverse framework
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 11 of 41
for Industry 4.0. The work also discussed a case study for VR in the Metaverse concerning
major applications in Industry 4.0. In the Metaverse, high-quality videos are presented,
but captioning is a crucial challenge. In the same regard, Yan et al. [62] presented a frame-
work named Global–Local Representation Granularity (GL-RG), which generates a rich
set of video captioning from high-quality video frames. The model exploits the design
of a global–local encoder, which has a large vocabulary and is ably supported through
temporal representation, which generates accurate video captioning. Long-range frames
are considered to determine the spatiotemporal relations, and short-range sequences are
used for user motion captures; thus, fine granular details are preserved. An incremental
training strategy was used, where a seeding and a cross-entropy phase are present, and it
eliminates the limitations of annotation marking through a discriminative reinforcement
learning model. The approach was evaluated for the MSR-VTT and MSVD datasets, and
the model had significantly high accuracy and precision.
In mobile communication networks, Khan et al. [63] presented the importance of the
Metaverse towards improvements of wireless network technology and mobile services. The
work devised a two-tier architecture and highlighted the requirements and components
required to address Metaverse-enabled wireless networks. The work also presented a
case example for healthcare and a live support system in an Industry 4.0 context. Finally,
the authors discussed the open challenges and future directions of the Metaverse-enabled
wireless systems to analyze and construct an end-to-end system to unlock their full potential.
Braud et al. [64] emphasized the utilization of large-scale and persistent AR at schools or
universities for a Metaverse environment. The work presented a layered architecture for a
single- and multi-user environment to provide real-time content sharing and creation.
Survey Necessities and Gaps
Recent Metaverse surveys have been focused mostly on the AI control, AR and VR
rendering, and crypto-markets of the Metaverse. In the manufacturing sector, the surveys
and case studies propose digital twins in the Metaverse landscape. Solution taxonomies,
architectures, and frameworks have been presented in these surveys. The recent surveys
indicate a limited exploration of the utilization of the Metaverse in different industrial
verticals. As the Metaverse’s realization is in its early stages, there is a necessity for a survey
that studies the Metaverse as a potential candidate to build the Future Internet and presents
a generic and functional view of the Metaverse in terms of finance, applications, and its
interaction with web platforms.
Thus, this survey fills in these existing gaps and presents the critical aspects (the tech-
nology, key drivers, and functional architecture) to shape the Future Internet. A functional
perspective of the Metaverse is presented in industrial applications, with challenges in
actual realization. The proposed survey also highlights the future of the Metaverse and the
emerging technologies required to bridge the gap between theory and potential realization.
We also highlight a case study for real estate management in the Metaverse and compare
the Metaverse real estate tour with the traditional physical tour. Thus, the article builds
and connects the dots of the Metaverse components and demonstrates its practicality in
interacting with the existing technologies. We believe the Future Internet will integrate the
Metaverse with key technologies and fuel a revolution in user experience ecosystems.
4. Nuts and Bolts of the Future Internet: The Metaverse’s Key Drivers
The concept of the Metaverse has undergone several technological advancements
and iterations; at each iteration, it has evolved and provided an immersive experience
closer to reality with the help of fast Internet and 3D rendering technology. There are
many technologies involved in the Metaverse. Based on the competitiveness in producing
novel solutions, many organizations have kick-started development towards the Meta-
verse. Thus, the technologies that build up the Metaverse are also gaining momentum,
such as wearable devices, XR, NFTs, and BC. With the advancements in wireless com-
munication infrastructures, affordable AR, VR, and edge computing have matured and
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 12 of 41
are supported by the low-latency and high-bandwidth of 5G and Beyond networks [65].
The section aims to address the objectives of RQ 2 through a rational discussion on the
Metaverse’s components.
4.1. The Timeline of the Evolution of Metaverse Assistive Technologies
The subsection highlights the evolution of key technologies that are building up the
Metaverse. The timeline addresses the objectives of RQ 3 by unfolding the Metaverse’s
progression. Figure 3 presents the timeline of the key Metaverse technologies.
Figure 3. Timeline showing the emergence of Metaverse assistive technologies.
In the early 1980s, the term VR was coined by Jaron Lanier. Through collaboration
with Thomas Zimmerman, he invented the data glove. In 1990, Time-Berners Lee invented
the World Wide Web. At the same time, AR was coined by Tom Caudell, followed by Paul
Milgram and Fumio Kishno. They proposed the reality–virtuality continuum [66], which
presents a scale between the physical and virtual worlds. The real reality is at one end of
the scale, and the other is complete virtual reality. Thus, the continuum presents all objects’
possible projections and compositions in real and virtual spaces. On the networking front,
the Third-Generation Partnership Project launched the Third-Generation wireless IP hand-
sets by NTT DoCoMo in 2001. In 2009, two breakthrough developments occurred, namely
the shift of wireless networking towards Fourth-Generation (4G) Long-Term Evolution
(LTE) networks, which brought visible differences in browsing speed over the High-Speed
Packet Access networks (HSPA+), which allowed speeds up to 42 Mbps in practice [67].
Furthermore, in 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto invented Bitcoin, which laid the foundation for
the BC cryptocurrency (Blockchain 1.0) [68]. In 2015, we encountered Blockchain 2.0, which
shifted from cryptocurrency-based primitives towards Smart Contracts (SCs), which paved
the way for automated agreements via digital contracts between autonomous parties, where
funds are transferred between user wallets. In 2014, Kevin McCoy and Anil Dash devel-
oped NFTs as financial assets. This allowed financial security for distributed transactions
and digital assets stored on the BC, as the ownership of NFTs is recorded on the BC ledger.
NFTs are typically digitally signed references and are uniquely identifiable. Cryptocurrency
is a digital currency form and has economic value (fungible and mutually interchangeable),
whereas NFTs are not mutually interchangeable.
In 2016, with the evolution of Decentralized Applications (DApps), we shifted towards
Blockchain 3.0, which refines its predecessor’s data storing and structuring capabilities
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 13 of 41
to leverage decentralized transactions on the BC with effective consensus protocols. This
marked the adoption of BC as a mainstream technology in different industrial verticals,
including the IoT, healthcare, edge networks, supply chain logistics, and others. In 2019,
the deployment of Fifth-Generation (5G) networks changed the operational landscape of
4G-LTE networks. 5G is designed over a new radio interface and uses higher frequencies
(28GHZ) than 4G-LTE 2500 MHz. It supports a millimeter wave (mmWave) spectrum
and has high coverage over 4G. In antenna design, it supports massive Multiple-Input,
Multiple-Output (mMIMO), which combines small cellular antennas for improved through-
put, which support ultra-high-quality video streaming, and control [69].
The developments in web technology also accelerated, which led to Web 2.0, which
differed from the traditional WWW (or Web 1.0) in terms of dynamic content, sharing, and
user interaction. The web consists of structured and unstructured data, and several natural
language models are used to extract the structured data and sequence them. However,
extracting meaningful information from the unstructured web is challenging. Researchers
are working on a web page transformer model to extract the web resources. In a similar
direction, Wang et al. [70] proposed a framework, named WebFormer, which presents a web
page transformer model, where the document’s structural information is extracted for se-
mantic interpretation. The authors encoded the HTML, content field, and text information
for language uniformity into a unified transformer. Initially, HTML tokens were introduced,
and attention-rich patterns were captured. Based on the web layout and language struc-
ture, the model showed promising results over long textual sequences via a rich attention
mechanism. Currently (and quickly), we are progressing towards the design of Web 3.0,
which will be content-interpretable, dynamic, and semantic. Furthermore, the emerging
networking (5G and Beyond) and 6G will involve AI-based radio, with increased cognitive
and computational capabilities over 5G. This will support real-time XR interaction in Web
3.0, rendering the Metaverse’s functioning flawless. Peak data rates of 1–10 Tbps, with a
0.1 ms latency, are envisioned in the 6G radio design. In the BC generation, we will witness
Blockchain 4.0, called web-scalable BC. We will mostly focus on addressing the issues of
scalability, power consumption, user experience, and latency through low-powered and
customizable consensus protocols. This will be an effective fit for massive IoT networks
and work closely with Web 3.0. However, the potential realization is still in the early stages.
4.2. NFTs, BCs, and Cryptocurrency
BC is a shared, distributed, and immutable digital ledger that enables the secure
transfer of assets and digital currencies between distributed and autonomous stakeholders.
BC technology allows decentralized solutions for creating digital evidence of ownership,
trading, and interoperability. Cryptocurrency and NFTs are governed by BC technology.
However, they differ from each other in several aspects. Cryptocurrency is a fungible digital
currency that is nearly impossible to counterfeit and double-spend. Cryptocurrencies
enable people in the Metaverse to buy or sell digital assets such as virtual land, offices,
home, NFTs, and other services. Hence, cryptocurrency connects the physical world
to the virtual world commercially. On the other hand, NFTs are non-fungible, being
unique digital assets, meaning that each NFT is unique from another one. They are
non-tradable and act as proof of confirmation of ownership for any digital asset, such as
digital art, signatures, in-game avatars, and other object forms such as images, audio, and
videos. NFTs are characterized by the fact that they are one-of-a-kind, indivisible, and
unchangeable. Cryptocurrency and NFTs both serve as key concepts in the Metaverse.
While the former plays a crucial role in digital trading assets, the latter is essential in linking
the true ownership of those assets. Therefore, cryptocurrency and NFTs are the Metaverse’s
cornerstones in the commercial sector. In terms of value proposition, blockchain offers a
comprehensive framework to support Metaverse-assisted digital platforms and content
creation. Furthermore, the decentralized nature of blockchain allows easy management
of data migration, which forms an good fit for fintech-related applications [71]. In terms
of supply chain management problems, researchers have applied Newsvendor models,
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 14 of 41
which support the operational and inventory management of transactional goods, where the
demand of asset transfers over the Metaverse will be uncertain [72]. This will allow seamless
control over financial payment tracking and add economic value to the supply chain.
4.3. Immersive Experience: Extended Reality
XR is a term that encompasses AR, VR, MR, and the virtual and real-world surround-
ings created by computers. AR and VR are currently the gateways to the Metaverse. VR
uses computer-generated visuals and images to create an entirely virtual 3D environment.
VR headsets and various sensors can be used to interact with the virtual space. In the
Metaverse, VR is used to build an entire ecosystem (multiverse), where users can interact
with each other and objects in the space. However, one feature that VR lacks is the capacity
to view customized objects in the actual world. This can be accomplished through the use of
AR. AR is a technology that casts computer-generated graphical content into the real world,
which ostensibly interacts with the surrounding elements. AR can be directly accessed from
most mobile phones or digital devices with built-in cameras. As a commercial example, the
game Pokémon GO is a well-known example of AR. However, the drawback with AR is
that it does not recognize real-world objects in the environment. Hence, communication
between real objects and augmented objects is not possible.
XR [73] straddles the boundaries between the physical and virtual worlds. MR at-
tempts to create an environment that feels as genuine to the user as possible, resulting
in an enhanced world. Here, computer-generated objects are visibly obscured by actual
objects present in the real world. The Metaverse is built on XR to provide users with an
immersive experience.
4.4. Communication Networks
In the Metaverse, millions of people will interact through digital avatars and share
their experiences. Thus, the communication backbone has to be resilient enough to support
the interaction smoothly. Thus, the Metaverse requires a high bandwidth, low latency, and
the most-efficient and fault-tolerant systems. The most-fundamental solution for bringing
these systems online is to upgrade the communication infrastructure through innovation
in wireless channels. The 5G and emerging 6G networks are a possible fit to support
real-time communication in the Metaverse. 5G and 6G support services such as ultra-
Reliable Low-Latency Communications (uRLLC), enhanced Mobile Broadband (eMBB), and
massive Machine-Type Communications (mMTC), which can deal with the communication
requirements of the Metaverse [74]. In 6G, the service sets are supported through flexible
network-in-a-box configurations, which enhance the performance capabilities [8]. 6G
eMBB supports AI-assisted channel-state information to offer average download speeds of
100 Gbps, which is 10-times that of its 5G counterpart. A low latency of <1 ms is proposed
under Enhanced uRLLC (ERLLC), with 99.9999999% reliability. However, the practical,
deployable configurations still need to be standardized and are in the proposal stages.
In the Metaverse, the stored data need to be accessed in near-real time; thus, it requires
sub-ms latency channels, which makes 6G networks a potential choice. The Metaverse’s
resources will be managed in a decentralized manner, and edge networks will support
effective scheduling and cache [75]. This eliminates the burden on cloud servers, which
resonates with the vision of the real response of avatar movements in the Metaverse.
4.5. Role of AI in the Metaverse
AI will play a prominent role in the Metaverse to improve the immersive XR expe-
rience and personalize the user environment. Creating digital avatars in the Metaverse
requires high-end configuration and storage resources, and developers require access to
high-end machines, which can support the rendering and the environment learning and
meta-cognition process. For instance, NVIDIA’s GauGAN2 [76] creates images from input
text and sketches. As the Metaverse involves high-end computer vision models, fast and
accurate models for video segmentation and instance identification are crucial. An effective
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 15 of 41
model was proposed by Liu et al. [77] and is named the Spatial Granularity Network (SGN)
for single-stage video instance segmentation (SG-Net), and the model is a two-staged
masked regional convolutional neural network used over a compact detection and segmen-
tation architecture. Every task in SG-Net is classified into the detection, segmentation, and
tracking phases, and an optimal solution is achieved for accuracy and scalability via a joint
optimization formulation. Mask prediction is made on sub-regions of the videos, and the
model ensures that fine details are captured. The framework ensures high scalability as it
avoids the overheads caused by the proposed regions of interest via correct prediction on
the tracking movements, and the overall runtime complexity is minimized. The authors
performed an evaluation based on the YouTube-VIS dataset, and the one-stage architecture
performed optimally on both the accuracy and speed metrics over baseline image segmen-
tation models. AI will enable features such as intelligent networking, immersive digital
worlds, inclusive user interfaces, accurate avatar creation, multilingual accessibility, and
many others. The Metaverse concept is user-centric, and the higher the accuracy of the
avatar, the better the experience. Multilingual accessibility and automatic translation are
essential features that will allow users worldwide to access the Metaverse. In addition,
Machine Learning (ML) algorithms are implemented to create personalized content and
attract more users. User experience is enhanced through innovation in scene generation
through VR headsets. The Metaverse will also augment brain–computer interface mapping,
where brain signals will be sent to the avatars to provide actions in virtual scenarios. As a
real use-case, Neuralink has conducted experiments where a monkey played a Ping-Pong
game through brain signals [78]. Human trials are scheduled for early 2023. However, to
improve the accuracy of brain mapping, Explainable AI (XAI) will be critical in providing
interpretations to the trained models and improving the AI black box operations [79]. The
Metaverse requires XAI as a core component, from gesture controls to scenery visualization.
4.6. Decentralizing the Metaverse: Web 3.0
The most-prominent aspect of Metaverse marketing is its interoperability. The digital
assets a person owns in one Metaverse application can be utilized in other applications.
This, however, is not conceivable in Web 2.0, where the users never own the assets. For
example, in the popular game Fortnite, users have the illusion of owning skins, cards,
coins, and other items held by the corporation that makes the game. The problem is more
visible for social media companies. Facebook, Instagram, YouTube, and other social media
platforms own the content the users post on the platform. The data are mostly stored on a
centralized web server. The drawbacks of Web 2.0 are addressed via Web 3.0. The issue of
the ownership of assets can be solved by using NFTs. However, this is only the beginning
of Web 3.0’s numerous advantages. Data can be stored in a distributed system using
Interplanetary File System (IPFS) storage facilities. In addition, Web 3.0 allows companies
to own the Metaverse stakes via Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs). A
DAO is a Limited Liability Company (LLC), but has no single commanding authority for
decision-making. Thus, Web 3.0 will lay the foundation for the Metaverse and Future
Internet commercialization.
5. The Metaverse Architecture: A Functional Perspective
This section proposes a generic reference architecture of the Metaverse to support
diverse industrial applications. The section addresses the objectives of RQ 4 as it func-
tionally demarcates the Metaverse components closely connected to the different verticals
in a generic sense. We first discuss the basics of avatar generation and modeling in the
Metaverse and scenario generation, and then, the generic reference architecture is presented.
The details are presented as follows.
5.1. Avatar Generation and Scenario Depiction
This subsection discusses avatar creation and modeling and then virtual scenario
generation and enhancement. The details are presented as follows.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 16 of 41
5.1.1. Avatar Creation and Modeling
In the Metaverse, avatars form the digital representation of users, where different
styles of the user can be given. Furthermore, imaginary shapes, objects, and creatures
can be added to the virtual space. Two important mechanisms for avatar generation are
avatar creation and avatar modeling. Generative Adversarial Network (GAN) models are
considered a good choice for avatar creation. The generator network is trained on fake
images, and the discriminator network recognizes the real and fake images. Apart from
GANs, mesh designs are most prominent in creating a 3D model of an avatar. Chalas et al.
presented a 3D design model for avatar generation, which scans the facial expressions
and renders them to a 2D pipeline [80]. In the Metaverse, the avatar generator is most
prominent in the gaming Metaverse, such as Drivatars, a racing game where online users
interact while driving cars through their created avatars. The data are collected and trained
through Deep Neural Networks (DNNs) for realistic scenery [81]. Other approaches involve
reinforcement learning to train networks based on the action–penalty critic.
For visual localization and mapping, human activity recognition in the physical
world is crucial. The spatial features are captured to build the 3D reconstruction, and the
localization of the user avatar in the environment is finalized. A computer vision algorithm
is normally used to achieve the same Simultaneous Localization And Mapping (SLAM).
However, the algorithm has to address the challenges of space generation, camera motion,
and robust feature tracking. Overall, SLAM has a rich set of algorithms such ORB-SLAM
v2 [82], which blends well with AR headsets. These algorithms have three steps: the feature
extraction phase, the mapping of 2D frames into a 3D mesh, and closed-loop detection. In
the first step, feature points and descriptors are fixed. Recently, CNN-based algorithms
have been a popular choice with SLAM. In the second step, the visual SLAM algorithm
maps the 2D camera into 3D pose estimation. For each captured frame, the 3D coordinates
are marked in the virtual scene and mapped to determine a user’s position in the scene.
ORB-SLAM adds additional data to refine camera poses and movements and forms a
movement-by-movement correspondence. The key points from 2D frames are mapped
to 3D locations with successive iterations, and localization errors are minimized. Finally,
the semantic information is connected to the scenario in closed-loop detection. However,
modern state-of-the-art schemes are still challenged in acquiring the 3D structure of the
environment and sense the motion of objects. The accuracy of the object becomes a crucial
aspect in such cases. Another aspect of avatar generation is tracking the eye movements
(the location of the pupils and orientation) captured from the real world. Through VR, the
captured visual information is presented as joint positions mapped to enrich the interaction
with other avatars. Eye-tracking algorithms also use gaze prediction and are based on
continuous measurement of the distance between the center of the pupil and the cornea.
Moreover, the gaze moves at certain angles; the range is termed vergence. Computer vision
algorithms in eye tracking measure the angles and the distance concerning the pupil angle
to accurately form the avatar’s eye movements. A big challenge is the estimation of 3D
depth by the VR device, and recent research is aligned toward depth estimation in eye-
tracking movements. Another challenge is precise distance estimation during incomplete
gaze, and this opens up exciting opportunities for users to realistically model avatars based
on gaze estimation.
5.1.2. Scenario Generation and Control
In this subsection, we discuss the understanding of scene generation, which is mainly
based on object detection and semantic segmentation. For this, we need to estimate the
distance between the referenced objects in the scene and the placed avatar. Another aspect
is the stereo matching and the depth estimation. In semantic segmentation, we consider an
image classified into various classes based on pixel-level information [83]. This helps the
developer understand the environment’s intricacies and the placed object. The AR-based
headsets require semantic segmentation at ≈60 frames per second (fps), which becomes a
challenging task. Thus, more real-time semantic segmentation algorithms are required for
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 17 of 41
seamless interaction in the Metaverse. All objects are different and, thus, require additional
meta-information to be trained. Another crucial aspect is object detection, which aims at
determining the fundamental understanding of objects placed in the scene. For example,
a face detection algorithm typically performs object detection in VR. For AR, projecting
a new object onto an existing scene requires object detection. The 3D virtual object is
placed, and the movements are synchronized with the physical object in the Metaverse.
Algorithms such as Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Scale-Invariant Feature Transform
(SIFT) are generally applied to AR and VR systems. Recent research has applied CNNs for
the same in MR environments [84]. These algorithms mainly work on detecting instances
(faces, markers, and textual information) and generic category detection (chairs, tables,
persons). Face detection algorithms should work properly with illumination and light
conditions for avatar-to-avatar communication in the Metaverse. Shadow estimation is
another challenging task and requires integrating illumination models in the training
instances. Algorithms such as Faster region CNN (Faster RCNN) and You Only Look Once
(YOLO) with a Single-Shot Detector (SSD) are applied currently to AR systems. However,
there are challenges for small objects in the 3D environment. Projections (perspective) also
hinder detection accuracy, as small objects might be outside the field of view of the camera
lens. In such cases, the viewer needs to be adjusted, and the object detector algorithm
needs to be trained accordingly. Another issue is the computational requirements of the
Metaverse, as large-scale data might be distributed into many classes, which increases
the computational complexity of the deep learning algorithm. Thus, research has been
focused on the design of lightweight detection mechanisms. Finally, stereo-depth estimation
determines the position of the objects in the created scenario. The estimation is based on
the virtual object’s distance from the camera lens. Mainly, we consider the egocentric depth
in such cases [85]. Depth-measurement sensors are normally placed in headsets to cater
to these requirements. Once the avatar is successfully projected into the scenario, image
enhancement algorithms are applied to reduce the haze and luminosity of the virtual world.
In such cases, image restoration and enhancement algorithms are applied to reconstruct
a fresh image from a blurred image. This also includes noise removal from captured
body movements, and thus, it would render the generated avatar in low resolution. In
image restoration for VR, optimization-based methods have been proposed, which apply
techniques such as color correction, texture restoration, and blur estimation to improve the
image quality in the Metaverse. After restoration, image filters are applied for scenario
enhancement, such that a super-resolution display is presented as the output. This involves
techniques such as optical imaging and high-resolution display adapters to render the
images in the Metaverse with accurate descriptions.
5.2. The Proposed Reference Architecture
The main components of the architecture are a contract interface, a provider, and the
front-end for User Interaction (UI). Figure 4 shows the reference architecture. The major
functionalities and applications of this architecture are discussed in the next subsections.
5.2.1. Back-End: Contract Interface
The underlying business logic for any application is the back-end. Computation tasks
and storing users’ data are performed at the back-end. In the proposed architecture, we
envision a decentralized functional Metaverse, and the back-end is an SC interface that
stores the application transactions on the BC. In this case, the BC functions as the ledger,
which underlying applications can read, and transactions can be stored and retrieved later.
The BC is designed to be a state machine, which means that the data can be written, but
existing data cannot be modified. A contract interface is created to communicate with the
back-end part. All the nodes on the BC collectively run a specific virtual machine, such as
the Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM). There are several Dockers {D1, D2, . . . , Dn} running
on the EVM. Docker enables developers to create isolated applications configured to run
many parallel applications and functionally bound data. On each Docker, we can execute
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 18 of 41
n SCs, represented as {SC1, SC2, . . . , SCn}, and the EVM records the state change. Each
SC is attached to an ordering service {O1, O2, . . . , On}, which orders the transactions and
assigns them to respective world state actions. The ordered transactions are then bundled
into blocks for the consensus algorithm to verify the transactions. The back-end, in general,
can be the public EVM or may be permissioned, which can execute a custom-designed
consensus protocol to fit the application requirements [86].
Healthcare Industry 5.0
Infotainment & Gaming
Financial Application Vehicular Network
Contract Interface
Contract VM
OnO2O1
D1 D2 Dn
Provider 
Wallet
Scalers
Provider 
EI(EaaS)
Edge ServerCloud
6G-eRLLC
6G-eRLLC
6G-eRLLC
VNF1VNF2
VNF3 VNF4
VNF5
Figure 4. A generic reference architecture of the Metaverse to assist industrial verticals.
5.2.2. Front-End and Supportive Microservices
At the back-end, user applications in the Metaverse interact with the back-end through
a Web 3.0 browser engine. The engine creates a service point for each application. Ap-
plications can thus access the front-end part using the service point. The front-end part
of the application can be made using the Hypertext Markup Language, Cascading Style
Sheets (CSS), and different JavaScript frameworks, which can be supported by the browser
or tuned for a native application engine. For example, now developers are using a game
engine with a prebuilt game component to be ready-to-use. Unity, Unreal, blender, Nuke,
and Maya are popular tools for building 3D games for more than 25 different platforms.
The front-end application can be hosted anywhere, including cloud services such as Ama-
zon Web Services. However, this might create a single choke-point, considering the web
service is centralized. To eliminate this centralization, the front-end app can be hosted using
decentralized storage such as the IPFS or Swarm. Alternatively, to eliminate the monolithic
architecture, which binds the application to a specific process, different services can be
invoked through function calls, which allows the decoupling of application and service
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 19 of 41
data. Such tiny services (microservices) are functionally independent and communicate
through service end-points over the web reference framework.
5.2.3. Communication between Front-End and Back-End
The front-end app should be able to communicate with the SC on the BC to execute
different functionalities. To achieve this, the front-end code needs to interact with one of the
nodes on the BC. Hence, an application might set up its node on the BC to accomplish this
task. However, setting up a node might take a few days and high storage, as all the previous
blocks will be synchronized with this node. An alternative is to use a third-party provider
that provides a BC node to interact with. Once an application is connected to the BC via a
provider, it can read the data present on the BC. However, writing data on the BC requires
the user’s signature using his/her private key. A signer node has users’ private keys stored
in the browser and can access the front-end whenever it has to sign a transaction. Storing all
the data and SCs on the BC makes sense for an application. However, it becomes extremely
costly after some point, as every transaction needs to be validated, and it becomes costly
for nodes to maintain the state of the BC. Hence, using off-chain decentralized storage such
as the IPFS or Swarm is a viable solution. As the application scales, transactions increase,
making it expensive for the application. Layer 2 (L2) scaling methods can be used, which
verify transactions on the secondary chain and transmit an aggregate of validated blocks to
the main chain.
5.2.4. Interaction of Web 3.0 with Diverse Application Verticals
Now, we present the schematics of Web 3.0 interaction with different industrial appli-
cations. However, the Metaverse focuses on combining all the applications into a single
virtual space. The communication between the applications and the servers (BC) is carried
out via different channels over the 6G network using a service gateway or Application
Programming Interface (API). Every application uses different services of 6G specific to
the requirements of the application. There is an IPFS storage local to the application.
Data important for inter-application communication (such as avatars and transactions) are
stored in a common IPFS storage. The details of application-specific communication are
presented below:
1. Industry 5.0—With the advancement in technology, there has been much talk about
Industry 5.0. Digital twins is one of the most-prominent technologies, which allows
the control of the factory in a virtual environment without physical interaction with
the machine. Digital twins of the machines can work in real-time due to the sensor
data. All of these are managed and provided using AI algorithms. However, humans
are to be brought back into the factories. This could be accomplished using cobots
(collaborative robots that can work alongside humans). The applications for Industry
5.0 in the Metaverse require the 6G-umMTC service, as many devices and machines
are to be connected.
2. Healthcare—One of the most-challenging areas to implement the Metaverse is the
healthcare domain. Accuracy, reliability, and trust in technologies are very important.
The most-debatable technology is AI, as there is no way to understand how and
why AI makes a particular decision. However, with the advancement of Explainable
AI (XAI), the AI algorithms will include interpretability, and this will change the
dynamics of the AI model predictions, which will be trustable, i.e., the model allows
you to understand the decision made by the AI. For example, in 3D tomography,
VR systems are included to capture the organ’s view, and the collected data can be
analyzed via XAI modules, which will improve the decision capability. A more salient
feature would be flawless telesurgery using the interface provided by the Metaverse.
Healthcare applications such as telesurgery rely on real-time communication; hence,
the Tactile Internet will be useful. The Tactile Internet provides ultra-low latency and
extremely high security, reliability, and availability.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 20 of 41
3. Infotainment and gaming—The first industry to adopt the Metaverse concept is the
gaming industry. Infotainment and gaming industries earn much from creating
innovative ideas to present their product. Scenario generation with objects requires
much information. The common avatar of a person throughout the Metaverse can be
created and customized through one of the gaming applications. All of this requires a
toolbox helping the XR technologies. A separate IPFS with Filecoin-enabled storage
can be used. Filecoin provides incentives to the nodes that permanently store the data.
However, users would have to pay to store their data. As much data are required for
rendering scenarios as quickly as possible, the FeMMB and eURLLC services of 6G
can be used [87].
4. Vehicular networks—Autonomously driving vehicles are gaining popularity. The
progress of vehicular networks will be fast-forwarded with advances in the Metaverse.
Traffic management and optimal routes for many vehicles can be performed efficiently
using faster connections and smarter devices [88]. However, the computations re-
quired by vehicles for making a quick decision cannot all be performed on the core
BC-assisted Metaverse back-end. This would require support from cloud platforms
providing Edge-as-a-Service (EaaS). Low-latency communication is possible using
edge servers. Low latency is essential for these networks, and hence, 6G-ERLLC
rate-splitting services can be utilized to minimize the latency bounds.
5. Financial applications—The Metaverse aims to make all finances decentralized. Cryp-
tocurrency plays the most-important role in this. NFTs are also an integral part of the
Metaverse, as ownership of literally any object, land, and avatar is based on NFTs,
i.e., with the help of NFTs, the ownership of the product can be transferred from one
customer to another. Applications providing decentralized finances need low latency
for faster communication. The 6G-ERLLC service of 6G can be used for this.
5.3. Flow Diagram between Users and Components in the Proposed Architecture
In this subsection, we discuss the flow diagram and actions performed when dif-
ferent application users want to interact with the Metaverse via an enabled AR headset,
represented by AR1 and AR2. Figure 5 presents the flow details. Earlier, in Figure 4, we
demonstrated that the different industrial verticals communicate with the Web 3.0 cognitive
layer, which has AI models to improve the immersive experience and quality of commu-
nication. We now explicitly present the communication flow and interaction between the
users and associated components.
In Figure 5, we consider a case study, where two users (in different applicative verti-
cals) of our proposed architecture wish to communicate in the Metaverse (virtual space)
or share AR data between each other via Web 3.0. We considered that both users oper-
ate through a resilient communication network (5G and Beyond), which uses Network
Function Virtualization (NFV) as a key element to communicate with the web service.
Essentially, NFV provides Virtual Network Service (VNF) points, which allow virtual
machines to communicate with the base hardware networking components and control
them through software functions [89]. Thus, network service functions such as bandwidth
assignment, load balancing, routing, and security (firewall) setup can be performed based
on functions. The functions are highly modular in approach (in 5G and Beyond networks);
thus, depending on the specific application requirements, they can be changed, allowing
the virtual machine to communicate with the base network accordingly. VNF thus allows
easy provisioning and automation of the network. For both AR1 and AR2, we considered
two VNF functions, VNF1 and VNF2 respectively. The functions interact with Web 3.0,
which provides the semantic interpretation of the data and associated context through
different AI models to provide a better experience to the digital user.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 21 of 41
End-
application 
(AR1)
Virtual Network 
Function (VNF1)
Web 3.0 
Cognitive Engine
Virtual Network 
Function (VNF2)
End-
Application 
(AR2)
WebAR 
content request Network Service 
selection
Forward to 
provider API Semantic 
parsing
Forward request
Secure URL and 
set webAPI
Network Service 
selection
Forward request
Forward response
Buffer and Flow 
Management
Secure HTTP 
header and set 
web API Forward response
Semantic 
parsing
Local IPFS 
storage
Mine webAR 
content and 
identify DoFForward WebAR 
content + IPFS 
content hash
FeMBB service
Buffer and Flow 
ManagementIPFS Content 
URL
Provide IPFS 
Key
Forward Response Authorize 
User
Connection Setup Request Content 
Price and offers uRLLC service
Forward Request
Pricing and OfferseRLLC service
Forward Request
Set up Broker 
ServiceWallet address 
request
Wallet address 
request
mMTC 
service
Forward Request
mMTC 
service
Forward Request
Response
Response
eRLLC service eRLLC service
Forward Response
Forward Response
Contract_mode, 
vm, docker setupInitiate channel and ordering service
Update meta 
information in IPFS
Publish meta 
information in BC 
Stream web AR content (connection-oriented bytes)
Figure 5. Interaction sequences between users and entities in the proposed architecture.
Web 3.0 supports massive machine-to-machine communications, which is interpreted
at the semantic web engine (cognitive web layer), where different deep learning algorithms
(mostly natural language and speech processing) allow the web to understand the provided
inputs accurately. A Web 3.0 user would understand the user’s actions, choices, and
content he/she likes based on the content presented. The cognitive layer might generate
user recommendations once he/she opens the web platform (Netflix, Flipkart, or Amazon
recommendation engines). The only difference is that, now, this would be performed by
the web itself and will not be processed at the end application, which would improve the
user experience.
In the flow diagram, we assumed that AR1 requests WebAR content from AR2 residing
in another application. Web AR content normally has six Degrees of Freedom (6DoF) to
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 22 of 41
track a 3D avatar in the Metaverse. The FOV of the camera provides the required projection
of AR objects in the real space and also avatar generation in the virtual space (VR-based).
The request is forwarded to VNF1, which selects an appropriate VNF to communicate
with a base network and forwards it to the provider API of Web 3.0. At Web 3.0, semantic
parsing of the context is performed, and the communication URL is secured via a service
web API. A unified web service such as Representational State Transfer (REST) is used.
The request is forwarded to VNF2, which selects the appropriate network service at the
receiver application AR2. It forwards the request to AR2 to respond with the AR content.
Once a response is received, VNF2 sets up a buffer and flow management to perform load
balancing and control. It encrypts the HTTP headers (secure HTTP, SSL/TLS, or other) and
sends them back to Web 3.0.
Once the content is received, the header is decrypted, and the data are parsed and
stored in the local IPFS. The data might contain additional information (textual or noise),
which is not useful for AR1, and thus, mining algorithms (AI-based) are applied to identify
precisely the AR content and DoFs, which helps the AR content to be projected into the
real-world space accurately. The content, along with the IPFS hash, is shared with VNF1,
which, via the 6G FeMBB service, forwards it to AR1. Here, the bandwidth is the prime
requirement, and thus, VNF appropriately selects the broadband service. During the
transfer, the receiver follows the transport layer’s appropriate flow and buffer management.
AR1 accesses the stored data by providing the IPFS content key authorized at the Web 3.0
layer. Once done, a bidirectional connection setup is established between the browser and
the user, where bidirectional inputs can be provided and received to alter the interactions
in the Metaverse.
Based on the content type and duration of AR content, pricing and offers are attached
by different AR users. AR1 requests the price information, with associated offers to Web 3.0,
which forwards it to VNF2. In this place, real-time communication is required, so the
ERLLC service is selected. The final price and offers associated with the web AR content are
forwarded to Web 3.0 by VNF2, which sets up a broker mechanism for communication (as
there may be multiple requests from different clients, and a message queue is formed). It
also notifies AR1 and AR2 about its wallet address and sets up a smart contract to execute
the transactional payment. Once a contract is executed, the meta-information is stored
on the BC by the Web 3.0 browser, and the content is streamed via a connection-oriented
duplex service. This use-case is specifically for AR content transfer through Web 3.0,
but the interaction flow is generic to support the transfer of VR and XR content among
industrial applications.
6. Applications of the Metaverse in Industry
This section enlists the applications of the Metaverse in the context of diverse industrial
scenarios. In addition, this section addresses the requirements of RQ 5 by presenting the
Metaverse as a viable solution to assist different applications. The details are presented as
follows. Table 5 discusses the potential Metaverse applications, the integration components,
the key challenges, and the potential Metaverse solutions.
Table 5. Potential industrial applications for the Metaverse.
Industry Verticals Component Integration Objective Key Challenges Potential Solutions
Energy-harvesting network Operation Technology
(OT)
Remote charging of
wireless devices, IoT
nodes, etc.
On-demand resource
allocation scheme between
energy and information
Integration of wireless
sensor network system to
create a digital avatar in
the Metaverse
Machine-based quality
inspection
Communication
Technology (CT)
Quality control inspection
for industrial production
line
Requires a quality
integration between
5G/6G, AI, and big data
analytics
The Metaverse-based
industrial inspection will
greatly reduce cost and
saves time in the overall
production process
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 23 of 41
Table 5. Cont.
Industry Verticals Component Integration Objective Key Challenges Potential Solutions
Internet-of-Everything Web 3.0, 5G/6G
Combination of XR and
communication network
to provide an immersive
experience in various
sectors
Requires sophisticated
hardware implementation
and decentralization
The Metaverse-based IoE
will enable
implementation in
education, training, and
skill development
Retail industry 5G, IoT
To provide a fully live
experience of the
application scene during
shopping
Does not provide the live
experience of the scene
while selling or buying a
product (e.g., online
shopping industry)
The Metaverse-based
system will enable
real-time experience on a
24 × 7 basis, which is
independent of location,
weather, and target items
Education AR and VR, AI, IoT
To explore various
applications of the
Metaverse in the
education sector
Requires flexibility,
development of a bond
between teacher and
student, high cost, and
unreal
The Metaverse-based
education system enables
simultaneous learning and
working experience,
increases interaction, and
explores higher-order
thinking in engaging
persons in a variety of
complex tasks
Healthcare AR and VR, IoT,
cloud/edge computing
To understand the need
for the Metaverse in
different healthcare
applications, to optimize
telemedicine for the
remote environment
Requires real-time
analytics for extremely
complex surgical
applications, design and
safety concerns, user
program validation
The Metaverse-based
healthcare enables the
fusion of real and virtual
space–time; through
holographic construction,
VR and XR technology
integrated with the
Metaverse provides a fully
immersive experience
Vehicular technology 5G/6G, AI, edge
computing
To increase connectivity
and trust among vehicles
via real-time
implementations
Requires real-time
analytics and utmost
reliability in terrestrial and
cellular connectivity of
vehicles; requires
alignment of the real
environment and virtual
object
The Metaverse-based
vehicular communication
enables demand-driven
connectivity faster
compared to the
cloud-based approach and
provides a real 3D virtual
experience
6.1. Manufacturing
The Metaverse can enable the ease of manufacturing without physical simulation
and testing, making the process efficient and easy to access. The Metaverse enables the
simplified generation of user design with low cost, controlled customization, the integra-
tion of software for 3D modeling (e.g., computer-aided design), collaborative design and
manufacturing using XR and immersive technologies, and knowledge sharing [90]. It also
improves visibility and transparency through 3D representation, thereby decreasing the
time to market for products.
The Metaverse optimizes the building-block industrial structure of manufacturing fac-
tories. Integrated with digital twins, it enables structural and production-line reformation
of smart factories in real-time to speed up the production process. Adopting VR in smart
factories with human interaction and online multi-user scenarios creates a new approach to
planning and designing production plants. The user can make visits and execute practices
in the production environment of the plant. Autonomous mobile robots can automate
the industrial process, thereby increasing production speed [54]. Workers can optimize
the working capacity, workforce, and necessary equipment/instrumentation to maximize
production efficiency in the Metaverse [91].
6.2. Internet-of-Senses
In the future, Internet-of-Senses technology will form an important integration with
the Metaverse combined with 6G wireless technology. Advanced holography techniques
will process and transmit digital representations of human senses and receptors using a 3D
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 24 of 41
camera to provide an immersive multi-sensory experience under the backdrop of ultra-low
latency, ultra-reliable, and extremely high-bandwidth 6G communication network. The
ubiquitous 6G network (1 Gbps data rate, 0.1 ms latency) will improve various Metaverse
applications such as telepresence, teleportation, and ubiquitous interaction. It will reduce
the boundaries between the physical and virtual sensory experience, improving the percep-
tion of reality. The Internet-of-Senses will integrate XR over 6G communication channels,
where AI-enabled cognition skills will be improvised. It eventually will make the model
have deeper perception and awareness of the actual physical world [92].
6.3. Marketing
The Metaverse provides an economic ecosystem to continuously buy and sell clothes
and products from the production company. It also enables the utilization of potential
by a particular company on social media. It enhances business models, in particular
in the retail and entertainment sector utilizing AR and VR technology [93,94]. Further-
more, the Metaverse connects different people and agencies with virtual identities due
to its immersive nature and empowered virtual economy. It enables peer-to-peer interac-
tions, crypto transactions on good digital assets (including NFTs), user-generated content,
and “world-building”.
6.4. Industry
The Metaverse increases productivity along multiple product life cycle phases by
creating multiple accurate simulations at a lower cost instead of building physical samples.
Using digital twins, the Metaverse enhances operational efficiency, increases product
quality, reduces quality risk, and provides real-time interaction between customers and
developers to upscale product life cycle design efficiency in the development cycle. A well-
known example of the industrial Metaverse is NVIDIA Omniverse™ [95]. The industrial
Metaverses obtains data from various sensors and operational lines and provides sensible
data analytics and decision-making to enhance the production efficiency of the space,
reducing costs and maximizing sales value. Furthermore, adopting federated learning, AI
and BC can optimize and enhance trust, decentralization, and privacy preservation among
Industrial-IoT nodes to maximize data sharing efficiency [56].
6.5. Education
The Metaverse can allow language experts to utilize language as a learning environ-
ment in the working, entertainment, and learning sectors compared to AR- and VR-based
learning experiences. It enables professionals to utilize trainees to undergo authentic and
creative training rather than short-term assignments. People with different disabilities
can use AI to improve their functioning, and AI-supported tools will help the elderly and
people who need special tools for intellectual communication. AI provides a futuristic
technology in the educational field, such as adaptive personalization and intelligent tuto-
rials with automatic assessment features [96,97]. The concept of virtual labs and the IoT
provides an interactive, immersive, and safe experience to students learning at different
levels [98]. A technology-based simulation environment such as XR creates a powerful
learning experience that provides an opportunity for collaborative teaching [99]. The Meta-
verse’s Non-Player Characters (NPCs) remember user settings, emotions, behaviors, and
audio–video interactions to enable fast growth. NPCs can help tutors and tutees interact in
real-time to solve real-world problems. Similarly, NPC peers help social constructivism
by providing real-time discussions and learning among colleagues [100]. The Metaverse
creators provide several learning opportunities to serve at the technical and managerial
levels. This enables learners to develop skills and cognition in real-time threat situations.
It also allows long-term involvement and practice, provides a low-cost, effective learning
and simulation environment, increases collaboration, and improves professionalism in
career opportunities.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 25 of 41
6.6. Internet-of-Bio-Things
The Metaverse can enable an immersive experience for the users through a human–
Metaverse interface. Various energy-harvesting self-powered technologies will utilize envi-
ronmental energy and collect data. The output can address human motions, mechanical
and sensory activities, haptic and virtual feedback, and other avatar and environment con-
struction indicators. Recent advances in self-powered sensing technologies and the IoT can
help provide a ubiquitous experience to create a cognitive digital twin representation in the
Metaverse environment [101]. With the assistance of physical and chemical self-powered
biosensors, it would formulate a constructive environment to support the Internet-of-Bio-
Things, which can capture avatar motions and emotions through bio-generated signals.
These signals are converted to the electrical waveform for simulation devices. Thus, it
would allow users to work from anywhere, which facilitates the creation of virtual offices
and presentations (such as conferences, expos, and exhibitions). Moreover, data collected
from biosensors can help the manufacturing/production sector test in the virtual world be-
fore implementation in the real world, thereby saving costs and shortening time to market.
6.7. Vehicle-to-Everything
Autonomous vehicles in V2X solve the real-time traffic conditions for time-sensitive
and critical applications. Incorporating V2X in the Metaverse enables decision-makers to
test the challenges of developed technology by simulating various vehicle traffic scenarios.
As BC is an integral part of the Metaverse, the overall system would ensure reliability, fast
connectivity, security, and trust. The Metaverse will ease autonomous vehicles to work as
free-roaming robots or sharing taxis. Surveillance using the Metaverse on personal avatars
for car-sharing customers can provide the detection of any fraudulent activity or damage
to the vehicles, as implemented by Zipcar [102].
6.8. Internet-of-Gaming
Using the VR and XR environment, the Metaverse enhances the immersive experience
to improve the gaming experience. It provides 3D visualization among users and inbuilt
gaming elements. The Metaverse generates AR to provide live game streaming, gaming
with NFT mining/trading, and earning with cryptos, which builds the Internet-of-Gaming
(IoT) ecosystem. In the IoG, users can invite friends from the real world to interact and
develop relationships and connect with other players in the virtual world. Players/users
can create a sub-game within a game in a virtual user-defined environment to perform
various activities. Moreover, due to the Metaverse’s portable and interoperable architec-
ture, players can port avatars/weapons from one environment to another through NFT
ownership. The popular games based on the Metaverse include Decentraland, Otherside,
Robolox, Star Atlas, Axie infinity, Illuviam, and Cryptovoxel. However, cyber gambling
laws in many countries restrict their users or players from exchanging assets, which are not
real, but involve real-world assets such as NFTs. Recently, Valve Steam, which is a video
game service provider, has removed all the games from its platform that trade assets with
the help of NFTs in the blockchain environment.
In terms of game engine platforms in the IoG, these are supported via a rich set of
Web Graphics Libraries (WebGLs), which have a rich set of Javascript APIs to render 2D
and 3D graphics in the browser itself [103]. The gaming support of WebGLs is closely
related to the OpenGL 2.0 specifications, where normal marker elements are used in HTML
for design elements. Supported by rich API calls and hardware acceleration engines, a
seamless experience is provided to the Metaverse gaming platforms. Recently, advanced
game engines have been developed using the Unity and Unreal platforms. Unity uses C#
as the language in editor mode while communicating with other applications, but the per-
formance degrades with a large number of concurrent applications. Unity uses a Blueprint
node-based logic engine, and users can inherit behaviors for game objects in the editor.
Unreal uses C# and C++ as the programming languages. It is based on engine-specific
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 26 of 41
macro calls, where specific AR and VR content can have a plug-and-play basis, making it
more suitable for concurrent users.
In terms of 3D rendering, Unity has a more robust system than Unreal. A visual node
editor named Shader Graph, which works on the High-Level Shader Language (HLSL), is
provided by Unity, which has modules that have low abstraction layers, which provides
higher control. Context switching and effects in Unity are a limitation for high-definition
video. In Unreal, a customized shader code is built on top of the HLSL, accelerating the
rendering process. Thus, high-cinematic experiences are better with Unreal. In terms
of real-time Visual Effects (VFX), both Unity and Unreal have a vertex shader, which
aligns the animation planes with the camera angles. Unity uses a visual effect graph with
visual scripting, allowing the object (nodes) to work seamlessly with different mobile
devices. Unreal, on the other hand, uses Niagara, a visual editor quite close to the native
Shader Graph of Unity. Niagara uses stacked modules, and the game parameters of each
module can be coded with a very high level of abstraction, providing higher VFX accuracy
and control.
7. Challenges and Future Directions
As discussed in Section 5, there are inherent challenges in the Metaverse’s integration
with Web 3.0 services. Table 6 depicts the key parameters, the challenges faced in the
technologies, and the prospective future directions to overcome those challenges. Thus, this
section discusses the potential challenges for the presented architecture and highlights the
possible solutions. The section addresses RQ 6 and highlights the potential the Metaverse’s
realization with current technologies.
Table 6. Challenges and future directions for Metaverse-assisted key drivers.
Metaverse Drivers Parameters Challenges Future Directions Domains
NFTs and BC
Authenticity
An attacker might exploit
NFTs, and the same NFT
can be minted on multiple
chains simultaneously.
Creating a unified system
that could be used to
verify the possessors of
virtual assets in the
Metaverse.
Financial sectors,
healthcare
Security
SCs need better protocols
to ensure security in the
Metaverse.
Using privacy protocols
and privacy-preserving
SCs.
Financial sectors,
healthcare
Repudiation An attacker may alter the
hash data.
A multi-signature contract
can be used to confirm
each binding by more than
one participant.
Financial sectors,
healthcare, industry
Communication
Network security
6G wireless networks are
vulnerable to access
control attacks.
Physical layer security
techniques can be used to
improve security issues.
Infotainment, financial
sectors
Low-latency
communication
Real-time rendering and
response over wireless
channels.
Unified reference
standards need to be
formalized.
Gaming, infotainment
XR
Hardware accessibility
The AR and VR devices
are not lightweight nor
affordable and do not
provide comfortable
prolonged usage.
New comfortable devices
that do not restrict user
movements should be
created.
Gaming, infotainment
Immersive experience
The challenge lies in
achieving high-quality
and high-performance
models.
Create models that can
achieve the right retina
display and pixel density
for a realistic virtual
immersion.
Gaming, industry,
infotainment
Multi-modal interaction Interaction between real
objects and virtual objects.
Usage of XAI
model-agnostic designs to
support AI models.
Industry, infotainment
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 27 of 41
Table 6. Cont.
Metaverse Drivers Parameters Challenges Future Directions Domains
AI Transparency AI systems used currently
are a black box.
The use of XAI models
should be encouraged. Healthcare, industry
Web 3.0
Unified reference
framework.
Integration of all
technologies into a single
Web 3.0 architecture
Development of generic
protocols that can be
implemented in different
domains
Healthcare, industry,
infotainment, financial
sector
Decentralization
Decentralizing the
technologies used in
creating the Metaverse is a
major challenge.
Design of the
Metaverse-specific
consensus protocols.
Healthcare, infotainment,
industry
7.1. Ownership of NFTs
With technological advancements, the risk boundaries of cyber threats and online
fraud have also increased. For example, an intruder might exploit vulnerable variables of
NFTs or steal the user’s private key to transfer ownership of NFTs, resulting in identity theft.
Furthermore, once the NFT is minted on multiple BCs, counterfeit NFTs can be created
and sold on the Internet. To avoid this situation, a unified system with chronological asset
tracking must be developed to determine the true owners of any NFT [17].
7.2. Security of NFTs
Most digital wallet holders assume NFTs are inherently secure as they are stored in a
wallet and rely on BC. As NFTs combine confidential user data, there are the challenges of
privacy-based attacks. Currently, there are no effective solutions to ensure the security of
NFT tokens. Thus, privacy-preserving techniques such as anonymization, unlinkability, and
the diversity of data must be incorporated in the back-end SCs to ensure NFT ownership
security [17].
7.3. Lack of Non-Repudiation
The lack of non-repudiation is a serious issue in the Metaverse. Parties can only
withdraw once a transaction is confirmed on the BC. To avoid the issue of repudiation,
multi-signature contracts can be implemented, which ensures the binding from both com-
municating sides who wish to transact via the Metaverse [17].
7.4. High-Bandwidth and Low-Latency Requirement
Holographic communication in the Metaverse requires real-time operation and suf-
ficient bandwidth and throughput. In addition, network security, reliability, and confi-
dentiality must be enhanced while projecting a holographic image from a distant location.
V2X networks and the IoG require low-latency protocols over wireless links to function
seamlessly and efficiently. Thus, services such as 6G-ERLLC and 6G-uMMTC should be
integrated into the Metaverse communication layers to ensure high service quality and the
desired QoE in user applications.
7.5. Network Security
6G networks are also vulnerable to access control attacks such as password attacks,
spoofing, and Distributed-Denial-of-Service (DDoS). Physical layer security techniques
must be implemented to resolve this issue. Advanced techniques such as quantum coding
and secured non-orthogonal access mechanisms must be included during communication
in the Metaverse ecosystem.
7.6. Wide-Scale Adoption of Hardware
The hardware used presently for AR and VR is neither lightweight nor affordable,
which makes the wide-scale adoption of these devices a critical issue. To handle this
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 28 of 41
issue, new lightweight and affordable hardware devices must be created with flexible
plug-and-play interactions among different devices.
7.7. Harmless Devices
Another issue with AR and VR technologies is creating devices that are not harmful to
health after prolonged usage. As VR headsets can cause eye discomfort and blurred vision,
manufacturers must resolve this with appropriate retina displays and pixel densities.
7.8. Bulky AR and VR Gadgets
Everyone wants a headset the size of normal glasses and that is easily portable, but the
current AR and VR gadgets are bulky. Thus, future research towards fabricating lightweight
and sleek AR and VR wearables is a prime requirement.
7.9. High-Quality Input Data
The systems such as face recognition, predictions, and voice and speech recognition
give accurate results on high-quality data. Hence, users must ensure that the input data pro-
vided to these systems are of high quality in terms of accuracy, integrity, and completeness.
7.10. Accuracy in Predictions
Applications such as V2X networks, healthcare, education, and manufacturing pipelines
require more intelligent control and accurate prediction modeling. With the advent of
digital twins, virtual inputs can be supplied to prototype models, and AI models can be
designed for accurate predictions [104].
7.11. AI Is a Black Box
The most-prominent issue with AI systems is that they are black boxes, which involve
complex programming that the user is unaware of. This issue can be resolved by implement-
ing XAI modules in AI in the design phase to improve the transparency and auditability of
AI systems. XAI will help the user and the developer understand the decision made by
the model.
7.12. A Unified Reference Framework
The central aspect in the creation of the Metaverse is the Web 3.0 architecture. However,
integrating all the necessary technologies into a single unified architecture requires much
work. To resolve this issue, we need to develop generic protocols that may be utilized in
different industrial domains per the user requirements.
7.13. Decentralized Web
The attraction point of Web 3.0 is that it is decentralized and will make the Metaverse
decentralized. However, the challenge is to fully decentralize all the Metaverse components;
only a successful realization of a decentralized web will come into existence. This is
a challenge as web components and servers still function through legacy controls and
protocols, and thus, a widespread change will be required in the backbone infrastructure.
Thus, in the future scope, research is required in the design of decentralized protocols that
function over the web, and open standards and APIs need to be integrated with the Web
3.0 engines, where the data can be seamlessly transferred to different endpoints.
8. Case-Study: BC-Assisted Metaverse Real Estate Management
This section proposes a case study based on Real Estate Management (REM) in the
Metaverse. The section addresses RQ 7 by conceptualizing a practical use-case scenario in
the Metaverse. The selection of the REM application was made as, at present, such schemes
are operational through AR and VR in real setups. Thus, with the widespread adoption
of the Metaverse in industrial applications, an important aspect would be integrating the
Metaverse for buying and selling real estate and virtual properties. As per the report by PR
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 29 of 41
Newswire [105], the real estate Metaverse market is expected to increase to USD 5.37 billion
by 2026, with a CAGR of 61.74%. The real estate spaces in the Metaverse will be flexible,
where users can virtually socialize, sell NFTs, and attend meetings in real-time from the
comfort of their homes. These applications will allow buyers and sellers to interact, and
fund transfers will be supported via SCs. The asset ownership transfer will be conducted
via NFTs, which are recorded on BC ledgers.
Thus, in the case study, we present a Buyer–Broker–Seller (BBS)-based reference archi-
tecture of the Metaverse-assisted REM and divided our architecture into operational phases,
namely the Metaverse engine, the communication interface, and the back-end business
logic, which is supported through a Web 3.0 browser engine. We begin with the traditional
approach followed by the proposed approach, where we present the application interface,
back-end, and business logic of the Metaverse-assisted REM. Finally, the performance
analysis of the proposed case study was considered against the traditional approach. The
details are presented as follows.
8.1. Traditional Approach
The traditional Buyer–Broker–Seller (BBS) approach involves sellers handing over the
land property to a broker to sell. The broker’s task is to find the potential buyers and the
best deal for the seller, and for each successful transaction, some amount of brokerage is
earned from both parties. The process is highly time consuming and requires trust and
essential paperwork. The land registration is performed through a registry office, and it
involves lawyers to form the legal documents, which are presented to the judiciary for
legal transfers. In addition, proper seller verification is required such that the land is not
sold to multiple buyers on a lease basis. Thus, a better solution to incorporate trust in
the BBS ecosystem would require SCs to replace the legal formalities, where the asset
transfer is recorded on the BC. However, the buyer still has to physically visit the property,
which can be replaced by a virtual AR and VR tour, making it comfortable for the buyer.
The traditional approach, however, does not consider buying and selling virtual lands on
the Metaverse.
8.2. Proposed Approach
In the proposed BBS architecture, we considered a VR-integrated virtual REM touring
service. Figure 6 presents the details of the functional architecture.
Virtual Property Physical Property
3600 Capturing
Augmented Reality
Development
Maintenance
Real Estate Management App
Metaverse Engine
Browser Engine
Seller Broker Buyer
O1
D1
OnO2
D2 Dn
Hyper Ledger Fabric
6G-eRLLC
Physical Entities
Avatar Generation
6G-FeMBB
Consortium Blockchain
API Gateway
API Gateway
API Gateway
Smart Contract
6G-eRLLC
Avatar Providers
VNF1
VNF2
VNF3
Figure 6. Case-study: a functional architecture of the Metaverse-assisted REM via the Web 3.0 back-end.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 30 of 41
To improve the QoE of the buyer, we considered the architecture on the backdrop of
6G-FeMBB communication to address the high-bandwidth requirements. Our proposed ap-
proach considered that avatars are created for each physical entity (buyer, broker, and seller,
respectively), who meet in a 3D virtual Metaverse environment and interact and socialize.
The proposed REM architecture has three main components: (1) application interface,
(2) back-end and business logic, and (3) connection with the Metaverse. The virtual world
in the Metaverse is rendered and deployed through VR, and land properties are available
for trading on the EVM, where records are stored on the Ethereum BC. In the Ethereum
chain, REM agreements are stored as transferable NFT assets, and BBS wallets are linked to
seamlessly allow payment transactions over SCs. The BBS avatars and wallet references
are linked over the Web 3.0 AI models, which makes the interaction with the Metaverse
smooth and functional. We next present the details of the individual components.
Figure 7 shows the snapshot of SC asset transfer and interaction between a single
buyer–seller, where the buyer is denoted as AHB1 and the seller is denoted as AHS1.
async CreatePropertyNFTAsset
(ctx, propID, owner, regID, 
meta_ID, propValue)
const nft_asset = {
propID: id;
owner: owner_name;
regID: id;
metaID: id;
propValue: value;
};
return ctx.stub.putState(propID, 
Buffer.from(JSON.stringify
(nft_asset)));
AHB1 AHS1
application
seller= AHS1;
buyer= AHB1;
transfer(nft_asset, seller, 
buyer)
       
asset contract;
initialize ERC-1155 Token;
counter_private (erc1155.id)
query(nft_asset);
get(nft_asset);
return nft_asset;
transfer(nft_asset, AHB1, AHS1)
get(nft_asset);
asset.owner=AHB1;
put(nft_asset);
return nft_asset;
update(nft_asset, property)
get(nft_asset)
nft_asset.regID=property.transfer.re
gID.AHB1;
owner. nft_asset=AHB1;
propID.nft_asset= ctx.state;
curr.balance.AHB1= 
curr.balance.AHB1-nft_asset
(propValue, serial_tokens
(erc1155.id));
current.balance.AHS1=curr. 
balance.HS1+nft_asset(propValue, 
serial_tokens(erc1155.id));
put(nft_asset);
return nft_asset;
4efdf32f33b91d01ff9ef519cbf0ecf6b5292d68d1b0bc180ac552b50988c938
fac3920f2a0f0c2f34a3528583c38a1ef9ade453c016cbf899fc28d73d2feb70
Figure 7. Snapshot of SC asset transfer for the BBS REM ecosystem.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 31 of 41
The contract logic for virtual land transfer (asset) is governed in the form of NFT
tokens and is thus denoted as nft_asset in the pseudo procedures. The contract can be
executed over a public blockchain network (where the functions and methods are pub-
lic and visible) or might be kept permissioned to ensure privacy. We took the use-case
of a permissioned network, where Dockers are utilized to execute the contracts (called
chain codes) [106]. An operational agent was set up for events listed in the contract, ex-
ecuted in Hyperledger Fabric. In the Fabric, we maintained the logic through a ledger
state containing the endorsement policies. The chain code execution requires the contract
nft_asset ownership transfer, and three main functions are executed, namely the query()
function, the transfer() function, and the update() function. As Dockers allow isolation,
the execution state of the contract is managed via functions in a world ledger. The flow is
as follows. Initially, the seller AHS1 initiates an application request, which contains the
buyer address, seller address, and transfer function call. The parameters for the transfer
function are (nft_asset, seller address, buyer address). The call invokes an asynchronous
call to the CreatePropertyNFTAsset, which contains the ledger counter ctx value, property
identifier (prop ID), owner (AHB1), registration of virtual land identifier (regID), Meta-
verse environment identifier (metaID), and property value (in terms of ERC tokens). The
state variables are initialized and added to the fabric buffer, where the asset contract is
executed. In virtual land buying and selling (for example, Decentraland), the ERC-1155
token is normally used [107], which is a multi-token standard and supports most contract
implementations and compilers. The erc1155 identifier is set up in the contract asset, and
the query() function invokes the get() method to know the value of the NFT token. In the
transfer function, the nft_asset is transferred, and ownership is changed from AHS1 to
AHB1. Finally, the ledger state is updated through the update() function, and the property
value is debited (in the form of ERC tokens) from the AHB1 wallet address. It is credited
to the AHS1 wallet address. The details are timestamped through the put() function. The
ledger state is updated at a low level, and the fabric buffer is written with the new value.
The channel state of the Hyperledger Fabric contains the newly created instance, the ledger
detail, the transfer timestamp, and the chain code object. Once the contract is finished, all
buffers and states are flushed, and the data are written to the transactional ledger, which is
mined and stored on the BC.
8.2.1. Application Interface
The application interface provides a way to deal with two different entities, i.e., real
and virtual properties. For real estate properties, the application offers a 360◦ VR view,
where buyers can feel and experience the visuals of the renovated property using AR
technology. Virtual lands are developed on a computer in total synchronization with the
real world. In case of any new development in the physical REM, the corresponding changes
will be reflected on the virtual REM, and the meta-information of the land will be recorded
on the BC. This technique allows real-time construction updates to be chronologically
recorded and timestamped; thus, the buyer is updated on all seller developments. In the
case of virtual lands, VR-enabled touring services are the only potential solution to find
interested buyers.
8.2.2. Backend and Business Logic
At the BBS back-end, we considered b buyers, represented as (B1, B2, . . . , Bb), c sellers
(S1, S2, . . . , Sc), and d brokers (Bo0, Bo1, . . . , Bod). In total, we considered a property lands
(both virtual and physical), represented as (L1, L2, . . . , La), which can be shown to Bb via
Bod. The details of La are stored on the public Ethereum BC, and the private details of Sc
are stored on the local IPFS. The adoption of IPFS storage is to web-scale the application as
the La information will have many fields, and thus, it is not feasible to store on a public BC.
Moreover, the mining rate on public chains is slow, and thus, we generate an IPFS content
key CK(IPFS), which is a 32-byte hash, and link it to the corresponding entry. The hash
address is stored as transaction information on the BC, allowing many transactions to be
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 32 of 41
appended on a single block only.
For every La, there is an associated SC, denoted as Sa. Figure 8 presents the SC
execution between the entities. Any Sc who wishes to sell his/her property to the registered
Bb must register his/her La on the BC via the IPFS. The detailed information is stored on
the IPFS, which can be accessed with the help of 32-byte content address CK. To make
a deal, Bod needs to execute the SC with parameter (La, Sc, Bb, Bob). The transaction is
recorded on the BC, and ownership is transferred from Sc to Bb. The wallet addresses of
all entities are stored with the contract address to expedite future payments. Along with
the SCs, an NFT N(La) is created in the Metaverse to transfer asset ownership from Sc to
Bb via Bod. A transaction is recorded once the deal is finalized. Multiple potential Bb book
tours for La properties with minimal booking charges are included in the contract as an
incentive function. Bod is responsible for the tours and has to pay for the BC resources
utilized during the tour. When Bb finalizes the La for buying or renting La, a smart contract
(SCk) is executed involving (La, Bb, Sc) entities with their wallets WLa , WBb , and WSc .
Figure 8. SC execution between entities.
8.2.3. Connection with the Metaverse
The application connects La to the Metaverse through NFT ownership. Each La is
associated with one unique NFT, which can be transferred from one owner to another.
Any change in the NFT record is recorded on the BC as a transaction. Now, we envision
that avatars {A(Bb), A(Sc), A(Bod)} are rendered in the Metaverse M(La), which denotes
the Metaverse ID of La. A(bod) initiates M(La) and invites A(Bb) to visit the virtual land.
If A(Bb) confirms the purchase, A(Sc) is notified, and the brokerage amount is added
to the SC. Now, A(Sc) generates an NFT ownership token, T(Sc), which is linked to
M(La), denoted as M(La)→ T(Sc). The wallets are checked for fund sufficiency, and the
automated transfer of funds takes place from WBb to WSc for La and the brokerage amount
to WBod . A similar brokerage amount is also debited from WSc to WBod as a selling incentive
and fixing the costs of avatars to visit M(La). Once done, T(Sc)’s ownership is transferred
to Bb (which indicates the transfer of NFT rights). The details are publicly verifiable through
the IPFS linked to Sc, which is accessible through a web-API gateway. Please note that all
entity wallets are registered via Ethereum SCs. However, as SCs are vulnerable to code
dependency and injection attacks [108], a private or consortium version of SC execution
can be considered via a Hyperledger Fabric channel. In this case, the contracts are executed
over isolated Docker addresses, and endorsers’ addresses are authorized. Another benefit
of including a Fabric channel is customized consensus, which is fine-tuned to execute with
high throughput and low block mining time. Thus, the transactional finality rate decreases
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 33 of 41
rapidly. The only downside is that the transactions are not publicly verifiable, and future
legal claims would not hold as only authorized stakeholders have the view rights.
8.3. Performance Evaluation
This section presents the proposed case study’s performance evaluation and simulation
results. We assumed that the Metaverse-enabled REM provides an avatar for Bb that enables
him/her to explore all listed La on the public chain.
Figure 9 represents the cost comparison associated with the traditional way of selling
a property where the broker provides limited options to a potential buyer and obtains
the brokerage from both the seller and buyer. The graph shows the cost of visiting a
particular place in a defined kilometer range with a traditional transportation system. On
the other hand, a potential buyer can explore all the possible properties just by paying
a small number of transaction fees for the standard BC. AR and VR provide the same
constant cost of exploring lands in the Metaverse irrespective of the actual location as the
360◦ version of the land is available. The Metaverse-enabled REM is linked with the BC to
provide trust between the potential buyer and seller. A buyer can purchase a property via
executing the smart contract, which transfers the ownership of the NFT associated with
the land to the buyer once the transaction is complete. The details are stored on the IPFS,
and the meta-information is recorded on the BC ledger. This creates trust compared to the
traditional way of buying land, where the same land can be sold to multiple buyers, and
the process is tedious and time-consuming.
0 500 1000 1500 2000
 Distance(in Km)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
 C
os
t(
in
 U
SD
)
 Traditional
 Metaverse
Figure 9. Cost of evaluating a land in the Metaverse.
As the BBS ecosystem scales itself, the inherent trust in the ecosystem reduces. Figure 10
depicts the conditions.
As the records stored in the BC are immutable, the trust remains constant, whereas
the trust in the traditional approach (non-BC or distributed storage) drastically drops, with
collusion among users. We introduced trust probability as an indicator, defined as the
probability of verified transactions over the total number of transactions. As indicated in the
diagram, the probability drops to 0.79 for 100 La transactions, which shows that fraudulent
transactions are authorized in the system. Similarly, for 500 transactions, the probability
drops to 0.455, which is less than half, and it deems the ecosystem as non-trustable.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 34 of 41
0 100 200 300 400 500
 No. land project
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
 T
ru
st
 P
ro
ba
bi
lit
y
 Metaverse
 Traditional
Figure 10. Trust probability on the number of land transactions.
All land information is first stored in the IPFS, and a hashed content address is stored
in the BC to reduce the mining cost of the system. Land information consists of the seller’s
private information and the full land description. The information might take one or more
blocks of the BC, which would increase the cost of storing the land record. The mining cost,
however, remains the same if we store only the hashed IPFS content address of each land.
Figure 11 presents the details of the mining cost.
0 2 4 6 8
 Mining cost (in USD)
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
 N
o 
of
 la
nd
 t
ra
ns
ac
ti
on
s 
(i
n 
K
)
#10 4
Chopade et al.
Proposed case study
Figure 11. Analysis of mining cost [109].
A piece of single block information consists of 4 bytes of block information, an 80-byte
block header, and 2 bytes for the transaction counter. Each land content address is 4 bytes.
For 1000 land transactions, the approximate size of the block is ≈3.66 KB. The current
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 35 of 41
mining cost of one block of 5k transactions is processed in USD 5. We compared our work
to Chopade et al. [109], which can store ≈200 transactions with the exact cost.
9. Discussions
In industrial applications, decentralization in cyber–physical space has allowed Meta-
verse applications to share data through supported Web 3.0 engines. As discussed in earlier
sections, the Future Internet has a prominent role in supporting the Metaverse’s content,
mainly through assisted AI models, where the virtual world would move in tandem with
the physical world. The Metaverse would blend the human element into the production
units and pipelines in the manufacturing sector and allow assets and ownership among
different stakeholders [110]. The BC-assisted Metaverse would play a major role in the
supply chain ecosystem, where logistics and goods ownership would be traded via NFTs
and ownership transfer would be supported via SCs. Similarly, in the crypto and NFT
gaming ecosystems, many games such as Decentraland, CryptoKitties, and the Sandbox
are played using NFTs. The games use the BC to verify and track assets, making users trade
and sell their game objects for real money. The games also allow rewards and incentives for
players who perform many trades. However, the NFT game market has recently required a
unified interface to enable business-to-consumer transactions and instantly support wallet
transfers. Currently, the cryptocurrency exchanges are not in tandem with the NFT assets,
which makes it difficult to trade items. Another issue is that, sometimes, the trading takes
the gamers to external pages, which are not secure and can be hacked by cybercriminals.
NFT trading should be supported in the game environment itself, and currently, many game
makers are making trading through third-payment crypto-exchange gateways. Another
issue is that play-to-earn gaming (as in the case of Axie Infinity) is quite popular, but the ini-
tial price of the game has increased. Thus, cracked versions and codes are being circulated
among the gamer communities, which are not verified and trustable. With the lure of easy
money, many gamers present sensitive information in the open domain. Another revolution
to support the industrial sector would be the generation of automated digital twins [111],
which would involve rapid prototyping of real industrial plants in the Metaverse-enabled
virtual spaces. A 3D representation of virtual plants would ensure the real-time integration
of process, control, and operational data flow. This would greatly strengthen the industrial
pipelines, and any change to the real world would be emulated in the twin plant. This
would bring a revolution to the emerging Industry 5.0, which supports the principles of
massive personalization and customization [112]. The quest is towards responsive services
in the healthcare domain, and interesting use cases such as telesurgery, telemedicine, and
surgeon telepresence would be supported in the Metaverse-enabled health spaces. The
progression would allow virtual clinic designs, remote monitoring, and patient avatar
wellness. In telesurgery, remote surgical operations would be performed on the patient’s
digital twins through a robotic arm, and the results would be analyzed [113,114].
In smart city infrastructures, IoT sensors are equipped to monitor the city’s resources
and building models. The collected data can be trained through AI models, and digital
twins can be constructed to monitor the resources. These twins can be hosted on a the
Metaverse setup, which would facilitate the planning and management of urban resources.
Similarly, the Metaverse can support V2X networks to improve driver interaction with road
conditions and traffic, design virtual maps that can be projected in front of road spaces,
and many more. Thus, there are numerous ways in which the Metaverse would contribute
to industrial applications in the near future.
However, numerous challenges limit the spread of the Metaverse. The Metaverse
needs to address the challenges of data leakage and privacy in any ecosystem, as most of the
data are transferred through third-party integrations. The revenue model of the Metaverse
needs to be formalized, and there are no content transfer and ownership regulations. The
advertisements on the web store data in client systems as cookies, which can be used as a
potential tool to leak sensitive information. Another problem is that every virtual world in
the Metaverse has its regulation or laws and is controlled through autonomous AI agents.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 36 of 41
Thus, the governance role needs to be justified to ensure fairness in the AI ecosystems.
No virtual model perfectly describes the real-world properties to their minutest details.
Thus, AI models can become biased towards particular objects or users in the Metaverse.
Mostly, the Metaverse worlds are restricted to gaming platforms, where the content of one
game creator cannot be supplied to others. This brings interoperability issues while com-
municating between different parallel Metaverses. Another challenge that the Metaverse
addresses are user addiction, where the users spend most of their time surfing these worlds
through AR and VR platforms. Prolonged addiction to virtual Metaverses would be highly
detrimental and might bring serious health issues. Thus, ways that limit the quota of users’
surfing on the Metaverse are required. Similar to social media platforms, in the Metaverse,
cyberbullying is another unfortunate issue that needs to be detected and addressed [115].
Most users who will interact in the Metaverse should be only those authorized; thus, user
authentication before communication is a prime requirement [116]. Only authenticated
user avatars should be allowed to interact and socialize, which can prevent unpleasant
cyberbullying incidents.
10. Concluding Notes
The Metaverse is the future communication and interaction medium for Web 3.0
users, and thus, it lays the founding principles on which the Future Internet will be built.
High-tech companies have realized the potential of the Metaverse and, therefore, have
made progressive steps towards its practical realization. In the research communities, novel
schemes related to the Metaverse are proposed in different industrial applications, as it
enhances the user’s experience in both the physical and virtual worlds. However, the
Metaverse is not a singular concept. It would require radical security, communication, and
computer vision efforts to make it practically feasible and enhance user interactivity. We
systematically surveyed the recent Metaverse research through a proposed review method
and studied different technologies, drivers, and principles that support the Metaverse.
Based on our survey, we provided a sound discussion of the Metaverse and Web 3.0 interac-
tion in industrial applications ranging from manufacturing, healthcare, V2X, digital twins,
education, gaming, to other sectors. We presented a generic reference architecture that can
functionally support these industrial verticals and proposed a case study of Metaverse-
assisted REM ecosystems. However, there are still challenges in content generation, security
and privacy, and AI model predictions, which must be addressed before the Metaverse
becomes a reality and blends with our daily activities. We reflected on these potential
challenges and discussed possible future directions.
As part of the future scope of the work, the authors will delve deeper into the pri-
vacy and security aspects of the Metaverse and propose a privacy-preserving and trusted
Metaverse ecosystem for the manufacturing sector. We will look towards the design of
automated digital twins and cobots that could communicate with human avatars in the
virtual manufacturing spaces, improving the productivity, customizability, and scalability
of the manufactured product in the industrial pipeline.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization: P.B., D.S. (Deepti Saraswat), M.S.R. and S.T.; writing—
original draft preparation: P.B., D.S. (Deepti Saraswat), D.S. (Darshan Savaliya), R.S., S.S. and V.S.;
methodology: A.V., S.S., V.S., D.L.M. and S.T.; writing—review and editing: D.S. (Darshan Savaliya),
S.S., A.V., M.S.R. and S.T.; Software: P.B., A.V., D.L.M. and D.S. (Deepti Saraswat); visualization: P.B.,
R.S., M.S.R. and S.T.; investigation: D.S. (Deepti Saraswat), D.S. (Darshan Savaliya), V.S. and S.S. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This paper was partially supported by UEFISCDI Romania and MCI through BEIA projects
AutoDecS, SOLID-B5G, T4ME2, DISAVIT, PIMEO-AI, AISTOR, MULTI-AI, ADRIATIC, Hydro3D,
PREVENTION, DAFCC, EREMI, ADCATER, MUSEION, FinSESCo, iPREMAS, IPSUS, U-GARDEN,
CREATE and by European Union’s Horizon Europe research and innovation program under grant
agreements No. 101037866 (ADMA TranS4MErs). This work is supported by Ministry of Research,
Innovation, Digitization from Romania by the National Plan of R & D, Project PN 19 11, Subprogram
1.1. Institutional performance-Projects to finance excellence in RDI, Contract No. 19PFE/30.12.2021
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 37 of 41
and a grant of the National Center for Hydrogen and Fuel Cells (CNHPC)—Installations and Special
Objectives of National Interest (IOSIN).
Data Availability Statement: No data are associated with this research work.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Bhattacharya, P.; Saraswat, D.; Dave, A.; Acharya, M.; Tanwar, S.; Sharma, G.; Davidson, I.E. Coalition of 6G and Blockchain in
AR/VR Space: Challenges and Future Directions. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 168455–168484. [CrossRef]
2. Marlatt, R. Capitalizing on the craze of Fortnite: Toward a conceptual framework for understanding how gamers construct
communities of practice. J. Educ. 2020, 200, 3–11. [CrossRef]
3. Cheng, R.; Wu, N.; Chen, S.; Han, B. Will the Metaverse be NextG Internet? Vision, Hype, and Reality. IEEE Netw. 2022, 36,
197–204. [CrossRef]
4. Microsoft HoloLens 2-for Precise, Efficient Hands-Free Work. Available online: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/hololens/
(accessed on 27 January 2023).
5. Mozumder, M.A.I.; Sheeraz, M.M.; Athar, A.; Aich, S.; Kim, H.C. Overview: Technology Roadmap of the Future Trend of the
Metaverse based on IoT, Blockchain, AI Technique, and Medical Domain the Metaverse Activity. In Proceedings of the 2022 24th
International Conference on Advanced Communication Technology (ICACT), PyeongChang Kwangwoon-Do, Republic of Korea,
13–16 February 2022; pp. 256–261. [CrossRef]
6. Microsoft, Accenture Join Meta to Build the Metaverse; Meta Quest Pro Launched. Available online: https://theprint.in/economy/
microsoft-accenture-join-meta-to-build-theMetaverse-meta-quest-pro-launched/1165441/ (accessed on 27 January 2023).
7. Park, S.M.; Kim, Y.G. A the Metaverse: Taxonomy, Components, Applications, and Open Challenges. IEEE Access 2022,
10, 4209–4251. [CrossRef]
8. Sanghvi, J.; Bhattacharya, P.; Tanwar, S.; Gupta, R.; Kumar, N.; Guizani, M. Res6Edge: An Edge-AI Enabled Resource Sharing
Scheme for C-V2X Communications towards 6G. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Wireless Communications and Mobile
Computing (IWCMC), Harbin, China, 28 June–2 July 2021; pp. 149–154. [CrossRef]
9. Bhattacharya, P.; Patel, F.; Alabdulatif, A.; Gupta, R.; Tanwar, S.; Kumar, N.; Sharma, R. A Deep-Q Learning Scheme for Secure
Spectrum Allocation and Resource Management in 6G Environment. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 2022, 19, 4989–5005.
[CrossRef]
10. Shin, D. The actualization of meta affordances: Conceptualizing affordance actualization in the Metaverse games. Comput. Hum.
Behav. 2022, 133, 107292. [CrossRef]
11. Dwivedi, Y.K.; Hughes, L.; Baabdullah, A.M.; Ribeiro-Navarrete, S.; Giannakis, M.; Al-Debei, M.M.; Dennehy, D.; Metri, B.;
Buhalis, D.; Cheung, C.M.; et al. the Metaverse beyond the hype: Multidisciplinary perspectives on emerging challenges,
opportunities, and agenda for research, practice and policy. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2022, 66, 102542. [CrossRef]
12. Jagatheesaperumal, S.K.; Ahmad, K.; Al-Fuqaha, A.; Qadir, J. Advancing Education Through Extended Reality and Internet of
Everything Enabled the Metaverses: Applications, Challenges, and Open Issues. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2207.01512.
13. Lv, Z.; Qiao, L.; Li, Y.; Yuan, Y.; Wang, F.Y. BlockNet: Beyond reliable spatial Digital Twins to Parallel the Metaverse. Patterns
2022, 3, 100468. [CrossRef]
14. Ruiz Mejia, J.M.; Rawat, D.B. Recent Advances in a Medical Domain the Metaverse: Status, Challenges, and Perspective. In
Proceedings of the 2022 Thirteenth International Conference on Ubiquitous and Future Networks (ICUFN), Barcelona, Spain, 5–8
July 2022; pp. 357–362. [CrossRef]
15. Spark AR-Building the Coachellaverse. Available online: https://sparkar.facebook.com/ar-studio/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
16. Alwis, C.D.; Kalla, A.; Pham, Q.V.; Kumar, P.; Dev, K.; Hwang, W.J.; Liyanage, M. Survey on 6G Frontiers: Trends, Applications,
Requirements, Technologies and Future Research. IEEE Open J. Commun. Soc. 2021, 2, 836–886. [CrossRef]
17. Wang, Q.; Li, R.; Wang, Q.; Chen, S. Non-fungible token (NFT): Overview, evaluation, opportunities and challenges. arXiv 2021,
arXiv:2105.07447.
18. Welcome to Decentraland-Create, Explore and Trade in the First-Ever Virtual World Owned by Its Users. Available online:
https://decentraland.org/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
19. A User-Owned Virtual World. Available online: https://www.voxels.com/ (accessed on 18 January 2023).
20. World First Interoperable Blockchain Game. Available online: https://illuvium.io// (accessed on 18 January 2023).
21. Duan, H.; Li, J.; Fan, S.; Lin, Z.; Wu, X.; Cai, W. the Metaverse for Social Good: A University Campus Prototype. In Proceedings
of the 29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia; Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2021;
pp. 153–161. [CrossRef]
22. Building a Better Way to Meet Online Gather Is a Video Chat Platform Designed to Make Virtual Interactions More Human.
Available online: https://www.gather.town/about (accessed on 3 August 2022).
23. Lee, H.; Woo, D.; Yu, S. Virtual Reality the Metaverse System Supplementing Remote Education Methods: Based on Aircraft
Maintenance Simulation. Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 2667. [CrossRef]
24. Mesh for Microsoft Teams. Available online: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/mesh (accessed on 3 August 2022).
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3136860
http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0022057419864531
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MNET.117.2200055
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/hololens/
http://dx.doi.org/10.23919/ICACT53585.2022.9728808
https://theprint.in/economy/microsoft-accenture-join-meta-to-build-the Metaverse-meta-quest-pro-launched/1165441/
https://theprint.in/economy/microsoft-accenture-join-meta-to-build-the Metaverse-meta-quest-pro-launched/1165441/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3140175
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IWCMC51323.2021.9498593
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TNSM.2022.3186725
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2022.107292
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2022.102542
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.patter.2022.100468
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICUFN55119.2022.9829645
https://sparkar.facebook.com/ar-studio/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/OJCOMS.2021.3071496
https://decentraland.org/
https://www.voxels.com/
https://illuvium.io//
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3474085.3479238
https://www.gather.town/about
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/app12052667
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/mesh
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 38 of 41
25. Microsoft to Acquire Activision Blizzard to Bring the Joy and Community of Gaming to Everyone, across Every Device. Available
online: https://news.microsoft.com/2022/01/18/microsoft-to-acquire-activision-blizzard-to-bring-the-joy-and-community-
of-gaming-to-everyone-across-every-device/ (accessed on 27 January 2023).
26. Omniverse Design Collaboration and Simulation Platform for Enterprises. Available online: https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/
omniverse/ (accessed on 18 January 2023).
27. Star Atlas–A Grand Strategy Game of Space Exploration, Territorial Conquest, Political Domination, and More. Available online:
https://staratlas.com/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
28. Horizon Block Party- POST MALONE Twelve Carat Toothache—A VR Experience. Available online: https://www.oculus.com/
horizon-worlds/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
29. Blocktopia—A Decentralized the Metaverse Built and Backed by Polygon. Available online: https://www.bloktopia.com/
(accessed on 3 August 2022).
30. Meta’s Project Cambria VR Headset Likened to ‘a Laptop for the Face’. Available online: https://www.engadget.com/meta-
project-cambria-details-vr-headset-roadmap-181023351.html (accessed on 3 August 2022).
31. Global Platform That Brings People Together through Play. Available online: https://www.roblox.com/ (accessed on
18 January 2023).
32. A Gamified Interoperable the Metaverse. Available online: https://otherside.xyz/ (accessed on 18 January 2023).
33. Project CAIRaoke: Building the Assistants of the Future with Breakthroughs in Conversational AI’. Available online: https:
//ai.facebook.com/blog/project-cairaoke/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
34. Tlili, A.; Huang, R.; Shehata, B.; Liu, D.; Zhao, J.; Metwally, A.H.S.; Wang, H.; Denden, M.; Bozkurt, A.; Lee, L.H.; et al. Is the
Metaverse in education a blessing or a curse: A combined content and bibliometric analysis. Smart Learn. Environ. 2022, 9, 1–31.
[CrossRef]
35. Hendler, J. Web 3.0: The Dawn of Semantic Search. Computer 2010, 43, 77–80. [CrossRef]
36. VCs Will Spend Billions More to Make the Metaverse a Reality. Available online: https://news.crunchbase.com/startups/
theMetaverse-startups-funding-investors/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
37. Mileva, G. 50+ the Metaverse Statistics that Will Blow Your Mind; Social: New York, NY, USA; Paris, France, 2022. Available online:
https://www.soocial.com/metaverse-statistics/ (accessed on 8 January 2023).
38. Reality Labs Reality Labs Brings Together a World-Class Team of Researchers, Developers, and Engineers to Build the Future of
Connection within Virtual and Augmented Reality. Available online: https://tech.fb.com/ar-vr/ (accessed on 3 August 2022).
39. Lampathaki, F.; Agostinho, C.; Glikman, Y.; Sesana, M. Moving from ‘black box’ to ‘glass box’ Artificial Intelligence in
Manufacturing with XMANAI. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE International Conference on Engineering, Technology and
Innovation (ICE/ITMC), Cardiff, UK, 21–23 June 2021; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
40. Vona, F.; Pieri, L.; Patti, A.; Tafaro, S.; Saccoccio, S.; Garzotto, F.; Romano, D. Explore 360° VR to Improve the Ecological Validity
of Screening Tests on Cognitive Functions. In Proceedings of the 2022 International Conference on Advanced Visual Interfaces, Rome,
Italy, 6–10 June 2022; Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2022. [CrossRef]
41. Hernández, L.; Hernández, V.; Neyra, F.; Carrillo, J. El uso de juegos masivos en línea en actividades de aprendizaje basadas en
juegos. Rev. Innova Educ. 2022, 4, 7–30. [CrossRef]
42. Ingeson, M.; Blusi, M.; Nieves, J.C. Microsoft Hololens—A mHealth Solution for Medication Adherence. In Artificial Intelligence
in Health; Koch, F., Koster, A., Riaño, D., Montagna, S., Schumacher, M., Ten Teije, A., Guttmann, C., Reichert, M., Bichindaritz, I.,
Herrero, P., et al., Eds.; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2019; pp. 99–115.
43. NVIDIA Omniverse Avatar Enables Developers to Generate, Animate, Simulate, and Render State-of-the-Art Interactive Avatars
as Well as the Experiences That Use Them. Available online: https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-omniverse-platform/avatar
(accessed on 3 August 2022).
44. Brereton, P.; Kitchenham, B.A.; Budgen, D.; Turner, M.; Khalil, M. Lessons from applying the systematic literature review process
within the software engineering domain. J. Syst. Softw. 2007, 80, 571–583. [CrossRef]
45. Lee, L.H.; Braud, T.; Zhou, P.; Wang, L.; Xu, D.; Lin, Z.; Kumar, A.; Bermejo, C.; Hui, P. All One Needs to Know about the Metaverse:
A Complete Survey on Technological Singularity, Virtual Ecosystem, and Research Agenda. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2110.05352.
46. Far, S.B.; Rad, A.I. Applying Digital Twins in the Metaverse: User Interface, Security and Privacy Challenges. J. Metaverse 2022,
2, 8–16.
47. Xu, M.; Ng, W.C.; Lim, W.Y.B.; Kang, J.; Xiong, Z.; Niyato, D.; Yang, Q.; Shen, X.S.; Miao, C. A Full Dive into Realizing the
Edge-enabled the Metaverse: Visions, Enabling Technologies,and Challenges. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutor. 2022. [CrossRef]
48. Yang, Q.; Zhao, Y.; Huang, H.; Xiong, Z.; Kang, J.; Zheng, Z. Fusing Blockchain and AI With the Metaverse: A Survey. IEEE Open
J. Comput. Soc. 2022, 3, 122–136. [CrossRef]
49. Turchet, L. Musical the Metaverse: Vision, opportunities, and challenges. Pers. Ubiquitous Comput. 2023, 1023, 1–17. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
50. Hwang, Y. When makers meet the Metaverse: Effects of creating NFT the Metaverse exhibition in maker education. Comput.
Educ. 2023, 194, 104693. [CrossRef]
51. Zhang, T.; Shen, J.; Lai, C.F.; Ji, S.; Ren, Y. Multi-server assisted data sharing supporting secure deduplication for the Metaverse
healthcare systems. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2023, 140, 299–310. [CrossRef]
https://news.microsoft.com/2022/01/18/microsoft-to-acquire-activision-blizzard-to-bring-the-joy-and-community-of-gaming-to-everyone-across-every-device/
https://news.microsoft.com/2022/01/18/microsoft-to-acquire-activision-blizzard-to-bring-the-joy-and-community-of-gaming-to-everyone-across-every-device/
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/omniverse/
https://www.nvidia.com/en-us/omniverse/
https://staratlas.com/
https://www.oculus.com/horizon-worlds/
https://www.oculus.com/horizon-worlds/
https://www.bloktopia.com/
https://www.engadget.com/meta-project-cambria-details-vr-headset-roadmap-181023351.html
https://www.engadget.com/meta-project-cambria-details-vr-headset-roadmap-181023351.html
https://www.roblox.com/
https://otherside.xyz/
https://ai.facebook.com/blog/project-cairaoke/
https://ai.facebook.com/blog/project-cairaoke/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/s40561-022-00205-x
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MC.2010.26
https://news.crunchbase.com/startups/the Metaverse-startups-funding-investors/
https://news.crunchbase.com/startups/the Metaverse-startups-funding-investors/
https://www.soocial.com/metaverse-statistics/
https://tech.fb.com/ar-vr/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICE/ITMC52061.2021.9570236
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3531073.3531171
http://dx.doi.org/10.35622/j.rie.2022.03.001
https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-omniverse-platform/avatar
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jss.2006.07.009
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/COMST.2022.3221119
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/OJCS.2022.3188249
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00779-023-01708-1
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36685785
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2022.104693
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2022.10.031
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 39 of 41
52. Ning, H.; Wang, H.; Lin, Y.; Wang, W.; Dhelim, S.; Farha, F.; Ding, J.; Daneshmand, M. A Survey on the Metaverse: The
State-of-the-art, Technologies, Applications, and Challenges. arXiv 2021, arXiv:2111.09673.
53. Zhu, H. MetaAID: A Flexible Framework for Developing the Metaverse Applications via AI Technology and Human Editing.
arXiv 2022, arXiv:2204.01614.
54. Alpala, L.O.; Quiroga-Parra, D.J.; Torres, J.C.; Peluffo-Ordóñez, D.H. Smart Factory Using Virtual Reality and Online Multi-User:
Towards a the Metaverse for Experimental Frameworks. Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6258. [CrossRef]
55. Wei, D. Gemiverse: The blockchain-based professional certification and tourism platform with its own ecosystem in the Metaverse.
Int. J. Geoheritage Park. 2022, 10, 322–336. [CrossRef]
56. Kang, J.; Ye, D.; Nie, J.; Xiao, J.; Deng, X.; Wang, S.; Xiong, Z.; Yu, R.; Niyato, D. Blockchain-based Federated Learning for Industrial
the Metaverses: Incentive Scheme with Optimal AoI. arXiv 2022, arXiv.2206.07384. https://doi.org/10.48550/ARXIV.2206.07384.
57. Pan, Y.; Wang, C.; Liu, Y.; Xu, C.; Liu, Y.; Zhang, L. 5g Mobile Edge Assisted the Metaverse Light Field Video System: Prototype
Design and Empirical Evaluation. 2022. Available online: https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4106315
(accessed on 18 January 2023).
58. Chu, N.H.; Hoang, D.T.; Nguyen, D.N.; Phan, K.T.; Dutkiewicz, E. MetaSlicing: A Novel Resource Allocation Framework for the
Metaverse. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2205.11087.
59. Lee, H.; Hwang, Y. Technology-Enhanced Education through VR-Making and the Metaverse-Linking to Foster Teacher Readiness
and Sustainable Learning. Sustainability 2022, 14, 4786. [CrossRef]
60. Panagiotakopoulos, D.; Marentakis, G.; Metzitakos, R.; Deliyannis, I.; Dedes, F. Digital Scent Technology: Toward the Internet of
Senses and the the Metaverse. IT Prof. 2022, 24, 52–59. [CrossRef]
61. Tang, F.; Chen, X.; Zhao, M.; Kato, N. The Roadmap of Communication and Networking in 6G for the Metaverse. IEEE Wirel.
Commun. 2022, 1–15. [CrossRef]
62. Yan, L.; Wang, Q.; Cui, Y.; Feng, F.; Quan, X.; Zhang, X.; Liu, D. GL-RG: Global-Local Representation Granularity for Video
Captioning. In Proceedings of the Thirty-First International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence IJCAI, Vienna, Austria,
23–29 July 2022; pp. 2769–2775.
63. Khan, L.U.; Han, Z.; Niyato, D.; Hossain, E.; Hong, C.S. the Metaverse for Wireless Systems: Vision, Enablers, Architecture, and
Future Directions. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2207.00413.
64. Braud, T.; Fernández, C.B.; Hui, P. Scaling-up AR: University Campus as a Physical-Digital the Metaverse. In Proceedings of the
2022 IEEE Conference on Virtual Reality and 3D User Interfaces Abstracts and Workshops (VRW), Christchurch, New Zealand,
12–16 March 2022; pp. 169–175. [CrossRef]
65. Bhattacharya, P.; Bodkhe, U.; Zuhair, M.; Rashid, M.; Liu, X.; Verma, A.; Kishan Dewangan, R. Amalgamation of blockchain and
Sixth-Generation-envisioned responsive edge orchestration in future cellular vehicle-to-anything ecosystems: Opportunities and
challenges. Trans. Emerg. Telecommun. Technol. 2021, e4410. [CrossRef]
66. Milgram, P.; Kishino, F. A taxonomy of mixed reality visual displays. IEICE Trans. Inf. Syst. 1994, 77, 1321–1329.
67. Krasniqi, F.; Maraj, A.; Blaka, E. Performance analysis of mobile 4G/LTE networks. In Proceedings of the 2018 South-Eastern
European Design Automation, Computer Engineering, Computer Networks and Society Media Conference (SEEDA_CECNSM),
Kastoria, Greece, 22–24 September 2018; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
68. Srivastava, A.; Bhattacharya, P.; Singh, A.; Mathur, A.; Pradesh, U.; Pradesh, U. A systematic review on evolution of blockchain
generations. Int. J. Inf. Technol. Electr. Eng. 2018, 7, 1–8.
69. Saraswat, D.; Bhattacharya, P.; Singh, A.; Verma, A.; Tanwar, S.; Kumar, N. Secure 5G-Assisted UAV Access Scheme in IoBT for
Region Demarcation and Surveillance Operations. IEEE Commun. Stand. Mag. 2022, 6, 58–66. [CrossRef]
70. Wang, Q.; Fang, Y.; Ravula, A.; Feng, F.; Quan, X.; Liu, D. WebFormer: The Web-Page Transformer for Structure Information
Extraction. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2022; Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2022;
pp. 3124–3133. [CrossRef]
71. Chang, J.A.; Katehakis, M.N.; Shi, J.J.; Yan, Z. Blockchain-empowered Newsvendor optimization. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2021,
238, 108144. [CrossRef]
72. Chang, J.; Katehakis, M.N.; Melamed, B.; Shi, J.J. Blockchain Design for Supply CHAIN management. 2018. Available online:
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3295440 (accessed on 27 January 2023).
73. Speicher, M.; Hall, B.D.; Nebeling, M. What is mixed reality? In Proceedings of the 2019 CHI Conference on Human Factors in
Computing Systems, Glasgow, UK, 4–9 May 2019; pp. 1–15.
74. Bodkhe, U.; Verma, A.; Saraswat, D.; Bhattacharya, P.; Tanwar, S. Adoption of Blockchain for Data Privacy in 6G-Envisioned
Augmented Reality: Opportunities and Challenges. In Emerging Technologies for Computing, Communication and Smart Cities; Singh,
P.K., Kolekar, M.H., Tanwar, S., Wierzchoń, S.T., Bhatnagar, R.K., Eds.; Springer Nature: Singapore, 2022; pp. 519–532.
75. Shi, W.; Cao, J.; Zhang, Q.; Li, Y.; Xu, L. Edge Computing: Vision and Challenges. IEEE Internet Things J. 2016, 3, 637–646. .
[CrossRef]
76. Park, T.; Liu, M.Y.; Wang, T.C.; Zhu, J.Y. GauGAN: Semantic Image Synthesis with Spatially Adaptive Normalization. In ACM
SIGGRAPH 2019 Real-Time Live; Association for Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2019; SIGGRAPH ’19. [CrossRef]
77. Liu, D.; Cui, Y.; Tan, W.; Chen, Y. SG-Net: Spatial Granularity Network for One-Stage Video Instance Segmentation. In Proceedings
of the 2021 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Nashville, TN, USA, 20–25 June 2021; IEEE
Computer Society: Los Alamitos, CA, USA, 2021; pp. 9811–9820. [CrossRef]
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/app12126258
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijgeop.2022.05.004
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=4106315
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su14084786
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MITP.2022.3177292
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MWC.019.2100721
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/VRW55335.2022.00044
http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/ett.4410
http://dx.doi.org/10.23919/SEEDA-CECNSM.2018.8544937
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MCOMSTD.0001.2100057
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3485447.3512032
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2021.108144
https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3295440
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2016.2579198
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3306305.3332370
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR46437.2021.00969
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 40 of 41
78. Neuralink’s Monkey Can Play Pong with Its Mind. Imagine What Humans Could Do with the Same Technology. Available
online: https://theconversation.com/neuralinks-monkey-can-play-pong-with-its-mind-imagine-what-humans-could-do-with-
the-same-technology-158787 (accessed on 3 August 2022).
79. Adadi, A.; Berrada, M. Peeking Inside the Black-Box: A Survey on Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI). IEEE Access 2018,
6, 52138–52160. [CrossRef]
80. Chalás, I.; Urbanová, P.; Juřík, V.; Ferková, Z.; Jandová, M.; Sochor, J.; Kozlíková, B. Generating Various Composite Human Faces
from Real 3D Facial Images. Vis. Comput. 2017, 33, 443–458. [CrossRef]
81. Muñoz, J.; Gutierrez, G.; Sanchis, A. A human-like TORCS controller for the Simulated Car Racing Championship. In Proceedings
of the 2010 IEEE Conference on Computational Intelligence and Games, Copenhagen, Denmark, 18–21 August 2010; pp. 473–480.
[CrossRef]
82. Zeng, F.; Zeng, W.; Gan, Y. ORB-SLAM2 with 6DOF Motion. In Proceedings of the 2018 IEEE 3rd International Conference on Image,
Vision and Computing (ICIVC), Chongqing, China, 27–29 June 2018; pp. 556–559. [CrossRef]
83. Wang, L.; Chae, Y.; Yoon, S.H.; Kim, T.K.; Yoon, K.J. EvDistill: Asynchronous Events to End-task Learning via Bidirectional
Reconstruction-guided Cross-modal Knowledge Distillation. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), Nashville, TN, USA, 20–25 June 2021; pp. 608–619. [CrossRef]
84. Zhang, H.; Han, B.; Ip, C.Y.; Mohapatra, P. Slimmer: Accelerating 3D Semantic Segmentation for Mobile Augmented Reality. In
Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE 17th International Conference on Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Systems (MASS), Delhi, India, 10–13
December 2020; pp. 603–612. [CrossRef]
85. Wildenbeest, J.G.; Abbink, D.A.; Heemskerk, C.J.; van der Helm, F.C.; Boessenkool, H. The Impact of Haptic Feedback Quality on
the Performance of Teleoperated Assembly Tasks. IEEE Trans. Haptics 2013, 6, 242–252. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
86. Bodkhe, U.; Mehta, D.; Tanwar, S.; Bhattacharya, P.; Singh, P.K.; Hong, W.C. A Survey on Decentralized Consensus Mechanisms
for Cyber Physical Systems. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 54371–54401. [CrossRef]
87. Dogra, A.; Jha, R.K.; Jain, S. A Survey on Beyond 5G Network with the Advent of 6G: Architecture and Emerging Technologies.
IEEE Access 2021, 9, 67512–67547. [CrossRef]
88. Reebadiya, D.; Rathod, T.; Gupta, R.; Tanwar, S.; Kumar, N. Blockchain-based secure and intelligent sensing scheme for
autonomous vehicles activity tracking beyond 5g networks. Peer-to-Peer Netw. Appl. 2021, 14, 2757–2774. [CrossRef]
89. Verma, A.; Bhattacharya, P.; Bodkhe, U.; Saraswat, D.; Tanwar, S.; Dev, K. FedRec: Trusted rank-based recommender scheme for
service provisioning in federated cloud environment. Digit. Commun. Netw. 2022. [CrossRef]
90. Impact of the Metaverse on Manufacturing. Available online: https://www.iotforall.com/impact-of-the-theMetaverse-on-
manufacturing (accessed on 7 May 2022).
91. Han, Y.; Niyato, D.; Leung, C.; Kim, D.I.; Zhu, K.; Feng, S.; Shen, S.X.; Miao, C. A Dynamic Hierarchical Framework for
IoT-assisted the Metaverse Synchronization. arXiv 2022, arXiv:2203.03969.
92. 6G: The Next Hyper Connected Experience for All. Available online: https://cdn.codeground.org/nsr/downloads/
researchareas/6G20Vision.pdf (accessed on 7 May 2022).
93. Noghabaei, M.; Heydarian, A.; Balali, V.; Han, K. A Survey Study to Understand Industry Vision for Virtual and Augmented
Reality Applications in Design and Construction. arXiv 2020, arXiv:2005.02795.
94. Cagnina, M.R.; Poian, M. How to Compete in the Metaverse: The Business Models in Second Life; Tech. Report 01-2007; Università
degli Studi di Udine, Department of Economics, Michele Poian: Udine, Italy, 2007. [CrossRef]
95. Develop with Nvidia Omniverse. Available online: https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-omniverse-platform (accessed on
7 May 2022).
96. Zdravkova, K., The Potential of Artificial Intelligence for Assistive Technology in Education. In Handbook on Intelligent Techniques
in the Educational Process: Vol 1 Recent Advances and Case Studies; Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2022;
pp. 61–85. [CrossRef]
97. Ivanović, M.; Klašnja-Milićević, A.; Paprzycki, M.; Ganzha, M.; Bădică, C; Bădică, A.; Jain, L.C. Current Trends in AI-Based
Educational Processes—An Overview In Handbook on Intelligent Techniques in the Educational Process: Vol 1 Recent Advances and
Case Studies; Learning and Analytics in Intelligent Systems Book Series (LAIS, Volume 29); Springer International Publishing:
Cham, Switzerland, 2022. [CrossRef]
98. Näykki, P.; Fagerlund, J.; Silvennoinen, M. ; Manu, M.; Nousiainen, T.; Juntunen, M.; Vesisenaho, M. Facilitating Collaborative
Learning with Virtual Reality Simulations, Gaming and Pair Programming In Handbook on Intelligent Techniques in the Educational
Process: Vol 1 Recent Advances and Case Studies; Learning and Analytics in Intelligent Systems Book Series (LAIS, Volume 29);
Springer International Publishing: Cham, Switzerland, 2022. [CrossRef]
99. Pappas, G.; Siegel, J.; Vogiatzakis, I.N.; Politopoulos, K., Gamification and the Internet of Things in Education. In Handbook on
Intelligent Techniques in the Educational Process: Vol 1 Recent Advances and Case Studies; Springer International Publishing: Cham,
Switzerland, 2022; pp. 317–339. [CrossRef]
100. Powell, K.C.; Kalina, C.J. Cognitive and social constructivism: Developing tools for an effective classroom. Education 2009,
130, 241–250.
101. Zhou, Y.; Xiao, X.; Chen, G.; Zhao, X.; Chen, J. Self-powered sensing technologies for human the Metaverse interfacing. Joule
2022, 6, 1381–1389. [CrossRef]
102. Bardhi, F.; Eckhardt, G.M. Access-Based Consumption: The Case of Car Sharing. J. Consum. Res. 2012, 39, 881–898. [CrossRef]
https://theconversation.com/neuralinks-monkey-can-play-pong-with-its-mind-imagine-what-humans-could-do-with-the-same-technology-158787
https://theconversation.com/neuralinks-monkey-can-play-pong-with-its-mind-imagine-what-humans-could-do-with-the-same-technology-158787
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2870052
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00371-016-1277-1
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ITW.2010.5593318
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICIVC.2018.8492909
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CVPR46437.2021.00067
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/MASS50613.2020.00079
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TOH.2012.19
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24808307
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2981415
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3031234
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12083-021-01073-x
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.dcan.2022.06.003
https://www.iotforall.com/impact-of-the-the Metaverse-on-manufacturing
https://www.iotforall.com/impact-of-the-the Metaverse-on-manufacturing
https://cdn.codeground.org/nsr/downloads/researchareas/6G 20Vision.pdf
https://cdn.codeground.org/nsr/downloads/researchareas/6G 20Vision.pdf
http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.1088779
https://developer.nvidia.com/nvidia-omniverse-platform
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-04662-9_4
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-04662-9_1
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-04662-9_14
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-04662-9_15
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.joule.2022.06.011
http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/666376
Mathematics 2023, 11, 941 41 of 41
103. Angel, E.; Shreiner, D. Interactive Computer Graphics with WebGL; Addison-Wesley Professional: Boston, MA, USA, 2014.
104. Abdel Hakeem, S.A.; Hussein, H.H.; Kim, H. Security requirements and challenges of 6G Technologies and Applications. Sensors
2022, 22, 1969. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
105. The Metaverse Real Estate Market Size. Available online: https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/theMetaverse-
realestate-market-size-to-grow-by-usd-5-37-billion-market-driven-by-growing-popularity-of-mixed-reality--cryptocurrency-
--technavio-301591153.html (accessed on 3 August 2022).
106. Kabra, N.; Bhattacharya, P.; Tanwar, S.; Tyagi, S. MudraChain: Blockchain-based framework for automated cheque clearance in
financial institutions. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2020, 102, 574–587. [CrossRef]
107. Ali, O.; Momin, M.; Shrestha, A.; Das, R.; Alhajj, F.; Dwivedi, Y.K. A review of the key challenges of non-fungible tokens. Technol.
Forecast. Soc. Chang. 2023, 187, 122248. [CrossRef]
108. Patel, N.S.; Bhattacharya, P.; Patel, S.B.; Tanwar, S.; Kumar, N.; Song, H. Blockchain-Envisioned Trusted Random Oracles for
IoT-Enabled Probabilistic Smart Contracts. IEEE Internet Things J. 2021, 8, 14797–14809. [CrossRef]
109. Chopade, M.; Khan, S.; Shaikh, U.; Pawar, R. Digital forensics: Maintaining chain of custody using blockchain. In Proceedings
of the 2019 Third International conference on I-SMAC (IoT in Social, Mobile, Analytics and Cloud) (I-SMAC), Palladam, India,
12–14 December 2019; pp. 744–747.
110. Moon, S.H. The Impact of the Metaverse Development and Application on Industry and Society. J. Converg. Cult. Technol. 2022,
8, 515–520.
111. White, G.; Zink, A.; Codecá, L.; Clarke, S. A digital twin smart city for citizen feedback. Cities 2021, 110, 103064. [CrossRef]
112. Verma, A.; Bhattacharya, P.; Madhani, N.; Trivedi, C.; Bhushan, B.; Tanwar, S.; Sharma, G.; Bokoro, P.N.; Sharma, R. Blockchain
for Industry 5.0: Vision, Opportunities, Key Enablers, and Future Directions. IEEE Access 2022, 10, 69160–69199. [CrossRef]
113. Liu, Y.; Zhang, L.; Yang, Y.; Zhou, L.; Ren, L.; Wang, F.; Liu, R.; Pang, Z.; Deen, M.J. A Novel Cloud-Based Framework for the
Elderly Healthcare Services Using Digital Twin. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 49088–49101. [CrossRef]
114. Bhattacharya, P.; Obaidat, M.S.; Savaliya, D.; Sanghavi, S.; Tanwar, S.; Sadaun, B. the Metaverse assisted Telesurgery in Healthcare
5.0: An interplay of Blockchain and Explainable AI. In Proceedings of the 2022 International Conference on Computer, Information
and Telecommunication Systems (CITS), Piraeus, Greece, 13–15 July 2022; pp. 1–5. [CrossRef]
115. Chatzakou, D.; Leontiadis, I.; Blackburn, J.; Cristofaro, E.D.; Stringhini, G.; Vakali, A.; Kourtellis, N. Detecting Cyberbullying and
Cyberaggression in Social Media. ACM Trans. Web 2019, 13, 1–51. [CrossRef]
116. Banerjee, S.; Odelu, V.; Das, A.K.; Chattopadhyay, S.; Kumar, N.; Park, Y.; Tanwar, S. Design of an Anonymity-Preserving Group
Formation Based Authentication Protocol in Global Mobility Networks. IEEE Access 2018, 6, 20673–20693. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s22051969
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35271113
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the Metaverse-real estate-market-size-to-grow-by-usd-5-37-billion-market-driven-by-growing-popularity-of-mixed-reality--cryptocurrency---technavio-301591153.html
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the Metaverse-real estate-market-size-to-grow-by-usd-5-37-billion-market-driven-by-growing-popularity-of-mixed-reality--cryptocurrency---technavio-301591153.html
https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/the Metaverse-real estate-market-size-to-grow-by-usd-5-37-billion-market-driven-by-growing-popularity-of-mixed-reality--cryptocurrency---technavio-301591153.html
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.08.035
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2022.122248
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3072293
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cities.2020.103064
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2022.3186892
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2909828
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/CITS55221.2022.9832978
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3343484
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2827027
	Introduction
	Market Trends and Research Activities
	Survey Contributions
	Article Structure
	The Review Method
	The Review and Article Selection Process
	The Research Questions
	Related Work
	Nuts and Bolts of the Future Internet: The Metaverse's Key Drivers
	The Timeline of the Evolution of Metaverse Assistive Technologies
	NFTs, BCs, and Cryptocurrency
	Immersive Experience: Extended Reality
	Communication Networks
	Role of AI in the Metaverse
	Decentralizing the Metaverse: Web 3.0
	The Metaverse Architecture: A Functional Perspective
	Avatar Generation and Scenario Depiction
	Avatar Creation and Modeling
	Scenario Generation and Control
	The Proposed Reference Architecture
	Back-End: Contract Interface
	Front-End and Supportive Microservices
	Communication between Front-End and Back-End
	Interaction of Web 3.0 with Diverse Application Verticals
	Flow Diagram between Users and Components in the Proposed Architecture
	Applications of the Metaverse in Industry
	Manufacturing
	Internet-of-Senses
	Marketing
	Industry
	Education
	Internet-of-Bio-Things
	Vehicle-to-Everything
	Internet-of-Gaming
	Challenges and Future Directions
	Ownership of NFTs
	Security of NFTs
	Lack of Non-Repudiation
	High-Bandwidth and Low-Latency Requirement
	Network Security
	Wide-Scale Adoption of Hardware
	Harmless Devices
	Bulky AR and VR Gadgets
	High-Quality Input Data
	Accuracy in Predictions
	AI Is a Black Box
	A Unified Reference Framework
	Decentralized Web
	Case-Study: BC-Assisted Metaverse Real Estate Management
	Traditional Approach
	Proposed Approach
	Application Interface
	Backend and Business Logic
	Connection with the Metaverse
	Performance Evaluation
	Discussions
	Concluding Notes
	References