Chapter 13
Adversarial Artificial Intelligence
Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT
Mohammed Husain Bohara, Khushi Patel, Atufaali Saiyed, and Amit Ganatra
1 Introduction
With the advancement of various technologies and increased capability of commu-
nication technologies, many things in terms of computing devices are connected
with each other. Today, the Internet of Things (IoT) plays a major role to provide a
comfortable and easier lifestyle to human beings by physically connecting sensors
and other embedded devices. Moreover, machine learning (ML) and artificial
intelligence (AI) add intelligence and self-learning capabilities in machines which
significantly attract many users and devices to get connected with the Internet
which significantly affects the automation of industry [1]. The globally connected
IoT devices generate billions of data on a daily basis which can be used for
training the models through machine learning techniques to incorporate intelligence
with devices. By applying various AI techniques to the large amount of data
generated by various IoT sensors, more automated IoT devices can be designed
[1]. The expansion of big data and, recently, the applications of AI technologies
in different fields have expanded rapidly. In object detection, image recognition,
computer translation, speech control, and more advanced areas such as drug
structure analysis, due to high intelligence, high availability, and high performance,
M. H. Bohara (�) · K. Patel · A. Saiyed · A. Ganatra
Devang Patel Institute of Advance Technology & Research (DEPSTAR), Faculty of Technology
and Engineering (FTE), Charotar University of Science & Technology (CHARUSAT), Changa,
Gujarat, India
e-mail: mohammedbohara.ce@charusat.ac.in; khushipatel.ce@charusat.ac.in;
saiyedatufaali.ce@charusat.ac.in; amitganatra.ce@charusat.ac.in
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021
S. Tanwar (ed.), Blockchain for 5G-Enabled IoT,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67490-8_13
323
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-67490-8_13&domain=pdf
mailto:mohammedbohara.ce@charusat.ac.in
mailto:khushipatel.ce@charusat.ac.in
mailto:saiyedatufaali.ce@charusat.ac.in
mailto:amitganatra.ce@charusat.ac.in
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67490-8_13
324 M. H. Bohara et al.
artificial intelligence technologies have been applied. Moreover, deep learning (DL)
is attracting many industries in the field of computer vision to add momentum to
AI-based applications. However, AI and ML with IoT are the most revolutionary
technologies today; security concerns become the center of attraction for the major
researchers.
Conventionally, the data with identical statistical parameters are used to train and
deploy the ML models with a benign environment which is vulnerable to tampering
of statistical parameters of the ML model by some capable intruder that leads to
incorrect prediction. Some recent studies have indicated the neural networks are
open to malicious attacks, current research on adversarial technology of artificial
intelligence has slowly become a hotspot, and studies have regularly proposed new
methods of adversarial attacks and methods of protection.
The adversarial attacks can be divided into three classes as per the target model’s
different phases: attacks in the training phase, attacks in the testing phase, and
attacks in the model’s implementation phase. Presently, artificial intelligence has
several different sub-fields, such as intelligent optimization, biomedical devices,
and machine learning [2, 3]. Here, the machine learning (ML) sub-field utilizes
the learning mechanism which makes it the artificial intelligence’s major sub-field.
A typical method of machine learning uses certain metrics, which are knowledge
and practical adjustment according to a set of target data, if previously obtained or
evaluated instantly. It is for that reason the machine learning background is highly
associated with statistics, mathematics, and logic [4, 5]. It is important that all
the context provides machine learning with both certain benefits and drawbacks.
Essential benefits for even modern, complex real-world problems are becoming
versatile and simple to use. Alternatively, drawbacks include needing thorough
review of the data, often using training phase for the data, and often needing
reliable expertise for the true modeling for the problem. As with cyber security
threats, today’s and future intelligent systems can employ some gaps that make them
vulnerable against attacks built with a powerful logical and mathematical context.
The Internet of Things (IoT) connects various things (sensors, actuators, etc.)
with each other using communication technologies like the fifth generation (5G)
to fulfill the demand of latency-sensitive applications. The data generated by
various sensors with some identical parameters are provided to the ML models
for training and deployment under some benign settings to make some decisions.
The ML requires the reliable, trusted, and secure platform of data storage for
working more effectively. The security and privacy of the data collected from the
sensors during transmission and building the model using ML techniques plays
an important role. Blockchain is a trusted and distributed ledger which provides
integrity, resilience, and tamper-proof environment. Integration of such technologies
like 5G (networking), Internet of Things (IoT), machine learning (ML), big data
analytics (BDA), blockchain technology (BT), etc. plays a significant part in the
revolution of automation in industry with a transparent environment.
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 325
1.1 Motivation
The motivation comes with the integration of IoT, blockchain, and machine learning.
5G is evolving to enhance the performance, security, and connectivity in IoT device.
The 5G network targets to support the application of IoT. Blockchain can be used
to solve the challenges of 5G-enabled IoT. Various concepts of blockchain with IoT
are explored in the papers; some of the papers give brief ideas about the adversarial
effects of machine learning. The data generated with the IoT devices can be trained
with the machine learning models.
1.2 Contribution of This Survey
This chapter provides the detailed understanding about role of blockchain and 5G
technology in integration of IoT and AI.
1. The evolution of blockchain technology with its architecture, types, and features
is covered in this chapter.
• The 5G offers numerous benefits to the IoT applications in terms of perfor-
mance, fault tolerance, and decentralization. The overview of 5G-enabled IoT
with the use of blockchain technology is covered.
• The research in the area of adversarial attacks and types of adversarial attacks
on machine learning models is in trend. The various examples of adversarial
attacks, threat landscape, and their impacts are covered in detail. Various
adversarial effects of machine learning techniques while the same set of
parameters for the data is used for training and deploying the model are also
covered.
• The way of offering trustworthy machine learning approach to industry has
been analyzed.
• The various scenarios of integration of blockchain with IoT, 5G-enabled IoT,
and AI along with their challenges and opportunities are covered.
1.3 Organization
The chapter structure is as follows: In Sect. 2, the basic theory of blockchain,
evolution of blockchain, and types of blockchain with blockchain framework are
explored. In Sect. 3, 5G-enabled IoT with architecture and use case of 5G-enabled
IoT in blockchain is discussed. Section 4 explains various adversarial effects of
machine learning techniques while the same set of parameters for the data is used
for training and deploying the model. Blockchain technology is one of the trending
326 M. H. Bohara et al.
solutions for providing an immutable decentralized environment for data storage
and transactions which can be utilized to provide a secure, trusted, and reliable
environment to ML models for solving the adversarial effects. In the next section,
the basics of blockchain technology, 5G communication, IoT, and adversarial AI
techniques are covered. In Sect. 5, the threat landscape and how a trustworthy
machine learning approach can be offered to industry are covered. Section 6 covers
the attacks. Section 7 covers the role of blockchain in establishing trust among
various parties in the machine learning model for industrial automation with the
case study and challenges.
2 Background Theory
In this section, blockchain technology along with 5G-enabled IoT is covered to
understand how to provide security against adversarial effects on machine learning
and artificial intelligence (AI) models.
2.1 Blockchain Technology
The digital currency Bitcoin [6] which is based on blockchain is the first application
of blockchain published in 2009 by a person named Satoshi Nakamoto. Blockchain
was initially put forward as an underlying technical framework of Bitcoin. Due to
excessive fluctuation and regulatory management, Bitcoin was deprived in many
countries. The reason for the acceptance of blockchain by the public is the three
security measures of confidentiality, reliability, and integrity. The era of Bitcoin was
Blockchain 1.0.
The blockchain is an emerging area. In Fig. 13.1, the evolution of blockchain
from 1.0 to 4.0 is depicted. The introduction of smart contracts in blockchain was
the evolution of Blockchain 2.0. The smart contract is the set of instructions which
can be configured in such a way that it gets executed automatically by miners on the
occurrence of some event. Smart contract is used in Ethereum which is another well-
known cryptocurrency. Nowadays, many industries get attracted toward developing
various platforms for smart contracts which leads to adoption of smart contracts in
various areas like ML, AI, IoT, and big data analytics for integration of blockchain.
Fig. 13.1 Evolution of blockchain technology from Bitcoin to blockchain in Industry 4.0
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 327
Fig. 13.2 Type of blockchain
Blockchain is used to transmit the data and transfer of data is done in a decentral-
ized manner, without the involvement of any third party. From cryptocurrency to the
numerous industries, blockchain is growing day by day. The blockchain provides
the technical solution for the verification, authentication, and data storage. The
blockchain is used in many applications such as financial market, voting system,
IoT, medical, supply chain, and agriculture.
Today the blockchain is a trending technology. The data transfer is efficient using
blockchain technology. Privacy is maintained using blockchain, and the trust of
different parties increased, as it reduces the chance of victimization and provides the
record of transaction done. Blockchain reduces the risk when the untrusted parties
come into the finance business which generates the reliability. Using the Internet,
we can transfer the data, image, movies, etc. in any corner of the world. Similarly,
in the transaction, the sender trusts the unknown party and makes the transaction.
But in the blockchain security is ensured for the transaction. Block in the blockchain
transactions is recorded, and the time of the creation and modification of the block
is also recorded.
The blockchain network can be categorized into different categories on the basis
of access to the network which is permissionless and permissioned. Permissioned
blockchain network is only accessible to authorized users in consortium or cloud-
based environments, while permissionless blockchain is open for all the users.
Figure 13.2 shows the various types of blockchain network.
Private and public blockchain are the types of blockchain. The classification is
based on the access control, data storage, and parameters. In the public blockchain,
any node can participate in the process, but in the case of private blockchain, the
restriction is provided, and to enter the process, approval is required. Consortium
blockchain falls under the category of permissioned blockchain but multiple
organizations are involved.
2.2 Blockchain Framework
The blockchain is considered as the link of block data forming a chain-like structure;
the representation of blockchain framework is explained in detail as shown in Fig.
13.3. The blockchain framework is divided into data link layer, network layer, and
328 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.3 Blockchain
framework
application layer. In the data link layer, the block is created which includes the
data structure, hash, Merkle root tree, and hash pointer. The network layer is used
to interact with the blockchain which includes P-P network protocol and consensus
algorithm. The network layer also enables the network distribution among the users.
Lastly, the application layer integrates the blockchain with the application that
enables the smart contact, Hyperledger, etc.
Blockchain is the technology that combines different algorithms, cryptography,
and distributed networks. The blockchain works on the principle of the agreement
of transaction without any central authority. In the blockchain, the blocks are linked
to one another, and each block is linked with the hash of the block at the time stamp.
The hash value is generated to verify the identity of the block.
3 5G-Enabled IoT
The Internet of Things, commonly referred to as IoT, connects the Internet with the
electronic devices of different capabilities and structures. This is mainly done by
wireless sensor, RFID, machine to machine, and Zigbee. The IoT comprises five
components which are sensor, computing node, receiver, actuator, and device. To
improve the efficiency of the system, the limitation with the usage of IoT needs to
be resolved. Due to the increase in the usage of IoT devices, there should be a large
amount of data transmission support with high bandwidth.
IoT is the technology to set the vision of connected living. It is not only
to enhance the quality of life but new revenue generation. Capabilities of IoT
promise to save people’s and organizations’ money and time while at the same
time contributing toward enhanced outcomes in a wide range of novel application
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 329
Fig. 13.4 IoT with connected living [8]
areas. The new era of living in the different areas like healthcare, smart city,
agriculture, smart homes, etc. connects with IoT as shown in Fig. 13.4. The lifestyle
would connect to IoT-enabled devices with the various applications. The advance of
wireless technology which is the fifth-generation wireless systems (5G) is a driver
for the 5G-enabled IoT applications. Next-generation 5G is rapidly growing as the
massive machine-type communication transfers to high-level 5G technology. This
would lead to IoT with 5G technology.
5G is evolving to enhance the performance, security, and connectivity in IoT
device. The 5G network can provide faster speed than any other generation. In
the past years, many researches have been done. The CISCO, Intel, and Verizon
have jointly worked upon a research project on 5G and designed a novel set of
“neuroscience-based algorithms” that adapt video quality to the demands of the
human eye, suggesting that the future wireless networks would have built in human
intelligence [7].
3.1 5G IoT Architecture
During each phase, 5G IoT is expected to provide end-to-end data transfer with
real-time applications. The architecture provides independent network and use of
330 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.5 5G-enabled IoT [8]
cloud-based radio access network (CloudRAN) to provide on-demand deployment
of the applications. 5G required some key enabling technologies such as high
bandwidth, high battery life – fundamental requirement in 5G, flexible and novel
time-frequency multiplexing, antenna array technology for narrowband operation,
HetNets, and massive MIMO for IoT architecture, network virtualization, self-
organizing network (SON), and coexistence of multiple radio access.
3.2 Use of 5G-Enabled IoT in Blockchain
Cloud computing is the centralized data storage system and is used in the develop-
ment of IoT. But the issue in cloud computing is data privacy. The user is not aware
about where the data is stored in the network. Therefore, such systems fail to meet
the requirement of the user. To secure the data and maintain the privacy, blockchain
is the efficient solution. Blockchain has the ability to revolutionize IoT with an open,
trusted, and auditable sharing platform, where any information exchanged is reliable
and traceable. Some of the benefits of this integration are as shown in Fig. 13.5 [9].
4 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence
In this section, we present mainly adversarial samples and types of attack, including
the causes and features of adverse samples and the capabilities and objectives of the
adversarial attacks.
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 331
Here we define the common technical terms relating to adversarial machine
learning attacks.
• Adversary – More commonly, adversary refers to the operator who produces an
example of adversity.
• Adversarial Attack – Current research incorporates techniques on machine
learning and deep learning for adversarial attacks. This deals fundamentally with
the concept of fooling train models.
• Adversarial Example – It is a changed version of a data cleansing that purpose-
fully adds noise to confuse a model of machine learning.
• Adversarial Training – Apart from the clean data, adversarial training uses
adversarial data set to build machine learning models.
• Black-Box Attack – A type of attack that feeds adversarial examples to a specific
model which are created without that model’s awareness.
• Threat Model – The model of threat refers to different types of potential attacks
which a strategy considers, e.g., black-box attack.
• White-Box Attack – An attack that presumes the full understanding of the target
model, including its values for parameters, design, training process, and in some
cases even training data.
4.1 Types of Attack
In this section, we are going to explain a few attacks with examples for better
understanding of the topic.
4.1.1 Box-Constrained L-BFGS
The authors in [10] first show the existence of minor disruptions to the photos, so
the disrupted photos could trick the classification errors of deep learning models.
These contradictory findings have thus provoked a wide interest among researchers
in the area of computer vision adversarial assaults using deep learning (Fig. 13.6).
4.1.2 Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM)
Szegedy et al. [10] found that adversary training could increase the robustness
of deep neural networks against the adversarial instances. Goodfellow et al. [12]
introduced a strategy for efficiently calculating an adversarial disturbance for a
given image in order to allow effective adversarial training. The Python program
in [13] tricks the regression model as the method of target machine learning
(full source code can be downloaded from the GitHub folder of the developer:
332 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.6 Examples of adversarial created using AlexNet [10, 11]
https:/github.com/kenhktsui/adversarial examples). As can be seen from Fig. 13.7,
the true data was categorized by the regression analysis into two groups.
4.1.3 One-Pixel Attack
An intense attack scenario on the opponent is when just a single pixel is modified in
the picture to deceive the classifier. Su et al. [14] confirmed that three different types
of neural network models were successfully fooled on 70–97 percent of the images
tested by only changing a single pixel in each frame. Figure 13.8 shows that every
image contains the appropriate label, and the resulting predicted label is shown in
brackets.
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 333
4
Original Data
Original Data
Adversarial Examples, Epsilon = 0.4
Adversarial Examples, Epsilon = 0.4
Original Data
Original Data
Adversarial Examples, Epslion = 0.7
Adversarial Examples, Epslion = 0.7
4
2
2
0
0
–2
–2
4
4
2
2
0
0
–2
–2
Fig. 13.7 Actual classification outputs and erroneous classifications for two distinct 0.4 and 0.7
epsilon values, respectively (as stated by Tsui in [13] application)
Airplane (dog)
Deer (dog)
Horse (Cat) Ship (Truck) Horse Dog (Horse) Ship (Truck)
Frog (dog) Frog (Truck) Dog (Cat) Bird (Airplane)
Automobile (dog) Automobile
(Airplane)
Cat (Dog) Dog (Ship)
Fig. 13.8 Single-pixel adversarial attacks [14]
4.1.4 Carlini and Wagner Attacks (C&W)
In the wake of defensive distillation against the adversarial perturbations, Carlini et
al. [15] introduced a set of three adversarial attacks [16] (Fig. 13.9).
Corresponding code for Nicholas Carlini and David Wagner’s paper
“Towards Evaluating the Robustness of Neural Networks,” presented at
334 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.9 Carlini and Wagner’s adversarial attack on MNIST [15]
the IEEE Security and Privacy Symposium, 2017 is available online at
https://github.com/carlini/nn_robust_attacks.
4.1.5 DeepFool
Dezfooli et al. [17] suggested iteratively calculating a minimum standard of
adversarial disturbance for an input image. Their technique, that is, DeepFool,
initializes the clean picture presumed to be located in an area confined to classifier
decision limits.
5 Trustworthy Machine Learning for Industry
Breakthroughs in computational capacity have made online quantitative machine
learning a useful and practical tool in many systems and networking domains
to solve decision-making problems, spam filtering, virus detection, and network
intrusion detection. A machine learning algorithms such as a support vector machine
(SVM) and Bayesian learner can be useful in these domains [18].
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 335
5.1 Machine Learning Technique and Issues
In actual life, people are really going to classes, learning from lessons, and trying
to offer some tests to show they’ve learned something right. Similarly, the machine
learning techniques’ pre-learning phase is performed along with training data, and
few other databases have been used to check whether the model has been properly
trained [19]. Because machine learning’s logical and mathematical architecture will
cause regularization, it means to remember the data pattern. In that case, the method
is not effective because it has merely been memorized. It’s similar again for the
learning cycle of humans as if we remember something, it can be successful in the
short term but it doesn’t mean we’re going to pass the main exam. When a machine
learning approach works in the testing process as well, then it can be approved
to be implemented in actual applications. Basically, it can be said for all machine
learning techniques the process involves the “reading,” “testing,” and “download”
phases (Fig. 13.10a) [20].
Some important issues in machine learning are data for learning and shaping
the target problem. It is also essential to choose the most effective approaches
for machine learning, as some mechanisms may not be successful on specific
problems. Moreover, because machine learning techniques may use their own
required features, selecting the most suitable value for these parameters is another
problem. Eventually, some other problems that should be addressed are the total
iterative process number for improved learning or a data preprocessing step for
information collected (Fig. 13.10b) [20].
Fig. 13.10 (a) Machine learning cycle. (b) Machine learning issues [20]
336 M. H. Bohara et al.
5.2 Learning Paradigms
Data obtained from the different sources may not all be in the similar form, although
theML algorithm uses various learning steps to make them ready for use. At present,
there are three different learning paradigms that can be defined as follows.
5.2.1 Supervised Learning
It is a type of learning process, where results are identified for each individual data
input. In these, each given set of input cases is labeled with known target output
classes for the problem under consideration, which means that a successfully trained
model with supervised learning can forecast a result and also classify according
to a newly discovered combination of inputs. Figure 13.11 reflects traditional (a)
mathematical and visual regression and (b) nonlinear classification [21, 22].
5.2.2 Unsupervised Learning
Unsupervised learning occurs when results are not identified for the target data
from which to learn. Basically, it calculates similitudes-distances between gathered
data and group them into a certain similar number of clusters. Mathematically,
similarity distance between data is calculated by Euclidean distance [23]. Figure
13.12 explains the traditional clustering method applied to a data set [24].
5.2.3 Reinforcement Learning
With potential robotic systems in particular, reinforcement learning is recognized
as a primary learning method. Within that learning model, it is the duty of the
14
(a) (b)
12
10
8
6
4
2
0
1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5
Fig. 13.11 (a) Linear regression. (b) Nonlinear classification with supervised learning [21, 22]
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 337
6
(a) (b)5
4
3
2
1
0
–1
–2
–3
I 2
–2 –1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
6
5
4
3
2
1
0
–1
–2
–3 –2 –1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Fig. 13.12 (a) Row data scattered. (b) Cluster data using an unsupervised learning [21]
Fig. 13.13 General flow of reinforcement learning [25]
machine learning model to adjust some of its feature space against the effects
of its behavior according to the feedback provided. Mathematically, this learning
process includes estimating incentive values for such goal acts preparing for future
considerations a scheme or data model of behavior. Figure 13.13 reflects a basic
flow of reinforcement learning [25].
6 Understanding the Threat Landscape
Adversarial machine learning means designing ML algorithms that can withstand
these sophisticated attacks and studying the attackers’ limitations and capabilities.
338 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.14 Flow of the substitute attack [27]
6.1 Case Study: Anomalous Traffic Detection
Adversaries may use substitution attacks to interrupt regular user behavior and also
to escape by causing the monitor to have a lot of false negatives via an integrity
attack. Through doing so, these opponents will limit the risk of detecting their
unauthorized activities. When the target machine learning framework is known,
some data sets for the artificial training can be generated to allow for decision-
making boundaries. As Papernot et al. tested, this technique of black-boxing is
considered a substitute attack [26]. Figure 13.14 displays a clear flow of the
substitute attack [27].
6.2 Real-World Attacks
Current study said that adversaries feed perturbed data to known models. In
addition, the impact of the attacks is assessed using image feature data sets.
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 339
Fig. 13.15 (a) Data set image. (b) Clean image. (c) Adversarial image
Although those environments have proved yourself to be enough to persuade many
investigators, this adversarial attack is a major concern for AI. In fact, we find this
also from the literature [28, 29], situations where this issue is downplayed and where
adversarial instances include real-time issues.
6.2.1 Attack on Cell Phone Camera
A. Kurakin, I. Goodfellow et al. [30] initially revealed that there are risks of
threats and attacks even in the physical world as well. They identified adversarial
photographs to demonstrate this and took screenshots from a cell phone picture. It
has been shown that even when viewed through the camera, a significant fraction
of images is misclassified. As Fig. 13.15 explains, the attack on camera pictures is
seen here.
6.2.2 Attack on Road Sign
Building on the attacks proposed in [15, 31], Etimov et al. [32] modeled robust
perturbations for the physical universe. We also showed the probability of effective
attacks on physical environments, such as difference in angles of view, range, and
solving. In this work, two attack groups of visible road sign posters were added: (a)
poster, at which the attacker designs a distorted sign poster and positions it over the
actual sign poster as shown in Fig. 13.16, and (b) sticker disturbance, where the road
sign poster is located. The printing takes place on a ledger, and the ledger is stuck
over the real label.
340 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.16 A road sign poster attack [32]: 100 percent fooling LISA-CNN [32] classifier. Even
indicating the distance and angle to the image. The classifier is educated for road signs using LISA
data set [33]
7 Role of Blockchain for Industrial Automation
Blockchain offers a distributed, immutable, and trusted environment for data storage
and transaction processing by using cryptographic concepts to sign, validate, and
verify each transaction by miners. Blockchain provides the platform to smart
contracts to get executed automatically using consensus algorithms. Currently,
many researchers are combining blockchain in various fields like machine learning,
IoT, cloud computing, big data analytics, etc. in order to secure the system in a
decentralized manner.
Smart contracts attract many industries to automate many things and to eliminate
third-party verification. Smart contracts build the trust among unknown entities by
providing verification and validation of transactions by special entities called min-
ers. Smart contracts with blockchain attract many industries like health insurance,
healthcare, finance, governance, fraud detection, supply chain management, logistic
management, natural disaster, self-sovereign identity, and real estate in order to
automate various processes and improve efficiency of the overall system [34, 35].
Smart contracts are used in health insurance to automate the process of claiming
insurance; for digitization of patient records for surgeries, organ transplant, and
OPD in healthcare; to provide a trusted, reliable, and transparent environment to
automate transactions in an open distributed system; etc. [35]. Figure 13.17 shows
us the various use cases of blockchain where smart contracts can be used for
automation, security, and transparency [34, 35] (Fig. 13.18). Table 13.1 shows the
various approach that combines 5G, blockchain and IoT for Industrial automation.
7.1 Smart Home
Smart home automation is a prominent technology which aims to change the
lifestyle of the people. The application of smartphones provides comfort to the user
and also provides security by single access from phone. The architecture of smart
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 341
Fig. 13.17 Use cases of blockchain
Blockchain
Smart Agriculture
Artificial Intelligence
Smart Home and Smart City Health care
Fig. 13.18 Application of blockchain
homes consists of the network connectivity, sensor, and application. A smart door
system plays an important role in the smart home automation. The data is stored
in the centralized server so there are chances of the unauthorized person to access
the data. To solve this problem, the idea of the blockchain is proposed. Blockchain
provides the integrity and authentication to smart door applications. The sensors
are used to detect the motion of the person entering into the house through a smart
door. Due to blockchain implemented in the smart door, any intruder cannot access
the data. Oftentimes IoT devices cannot address the issue; therefore, 5G technology
overcomes the limitations.
342 M. H. Bohara et al.
Table 13.1 Comparison of blockchain approaches for industrial automation
Author Year Description
Blockchain
technology
used Technique
Jong-ho
Noh [37]
2019 Proposed the smart city with
blockchain technology. Also
listed the issues in the smart
city project and solve the
security problem using
blockchain
Yes 5G and blockchain
Daniel
Minoli [38]
2020 The challenges for the smart
home with the blockchain for
the IoT. The research needs to
be done for making use of
blockchain in the smart home
automation
Yes IoT and blockchain
Srinivas
Jangirala
[39]
2019 Limitation in the
blockchain-enabled 5G
authentication in the supply
chain. Proposed an efficient
protocol (LBRAPS)
Yes 5G, IoT, and blockchain
Mohamed
Amine
Ferrag [40]
2020 Proposed the security solution
of IoT-based smart agriculture
using blockchain
Yes IoT and blockchain
7.2 Smart City
The migration of the people of villages to the cities increased the number of
populations in the urban areas. This leads to the scarcity of the needs to water, food,
electricity, etc. To address this problem, smart city projects are implemented which
include the use of the IoT and cloud technology. In addition to this, blockchain
technology is applied in smart cities. The role of the blockchain is to protect the
data of the user from the malicious attack, and blockchain framework allows the
entity to communicate in the smart city.
7.3 Supply Chain Management
The activities in the lifestyle of the product involved the organization; resources
are the supply chain management. The chain starts from the development of the
product to deliver at the user end. The impact of the blockchain and 5G increases
the transmission of the product. Blockchain provides the integrity of the product
from the development of the product to the end user. The smart contract is the main
component of the blockchain which eliminates the use of the third party of having
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 343
the decentralized network. Using 5G with blockchain, the tracking of products can
be easily done.
7.4 Smart Agriculture
IoT is used nowadays in the agriculture field. Hence smart agriculture comes into
the picture, the resultant to improve the product quality and quantity. Sensors can
detect the temperature of the soil, water level, moisture, etc. Blockchain is used in
the field of agriculture, and the main focus is on the food supply chain. The food
supply is connected to agriculture as the raw materials from farmers are taken and
used as a product in supply chain management.
7.5 Smart Healthcare
Healthcare is the most essential part in the entire world. With the rise in the pop-
ulation in the world, healthcare conditions are a crucial matter for the government.
5G-enabled IoT is the considered solution in the healthcare domain [36]. The remote
system with sensor monitoring system of the patient is useful in healthcare.
7.6 AI and Machine Learning
AI and machine learning algorithms work on the data to train, learn, and make
decisions, but data must be secured during the transaction, training, and testing.
AI and machine learning work on the set of parameters which must be secured from
the unauthorized changes; otherwise, it leads to adversarial effect. Many AI models
work on some sensitive information like patient’s health data, biometric data for
authentication, etc. which must be secured from the intruders as well as to train and
deploy the model built on these data using some statistical parameters that need to
be secured to prevent adversarial effects. The intruder may manipulate the statistical
parameters/environment variables, the devices from where data need to be collected,
or the input samples. The attack can be performed on input samples by inserting
noise by silently moving the decision boundaries during the training process [41].
Many AI-driven applications like recommendation systems, object detection
systems, medical diagnosis, robotic surgeries, etc. use large scale of data which
needs to be stored either at some central server or at some distributed environment.
Storing data at the central server decreases the chances of external attacks on data
and statistical parameters but has the risk of a single point of failure which redirects
to adopt a distributed environment. Distributed environment offers many benefits in
terms of efficiency, data sharing, and fault tolerance, but due to the involvement of
344 M. H. Bohara et al.
multiple unknown parties, it leads to trust and security issues. Blockchain solves this
problem by providing a tamper-proof distributed environment to build trust among
unknown peers without including third-party authority.
In [42], the authors have proposed collaborative training which works in a
distributed environment to detect the adversarial attack on any statistical attributes
or input samples for convolutional neural network (CNN). This model provides
security at network-level attack. The cryptographic concepts and decentralizing
properties of blockchain are employed to the CNN model to provide security and
accountability. By implementing a hash chain of blocks of CNN models and by
hiding the parameters and network scenario, the prevention of threat to any white-
box attack is possible. Due to the implementation of hash chain, tempering in any
block effect the hash of the current and subsequent block can be easily detected.
In [41], the authors have proposed the secure and decentralized blockchain-
based framework for explainable AI (XAI) which is the new and trending field of
AI nowadays. This approach provides facilities to record and govern interactions
and also allows consensus for predictions and their explanation through the smart
contracts to provide security against some adversarial attacks. Blockchain in this
framework offers decentralized, reliable, secure, and immutable storage which is
built on the top of decentralized applications (DApps). Blockchain can provide
transparency and visibility, immutability, traceability, and nonrepudiation using the
smart contracts for an explainable AI system.
In [43], the authors proposed the blockchain-based solution for biometrics recog-
nition systems. They covered the traditional architecture of biometrics recognition
systems; vulnerabilities at every level of architecture such as feature extraction,
template matcher, etc.; and possible solutions for the same. The proposed solution
gives alert when alteration occurs at any component of the system. The time
complexity of the proposed solution is higher due to complex cryptographic
techniques being included to improve the security level.
The integration of blockchain technology with AI models improves security,
efficiency, and auditability. It also improves trust among peers for decision-
making and fault tolerance. AI enumerates intelligence into the machines over the
decentralized blockchain network (Table 13.2).
7.7 Case Study
With the demand of Internet-enabled devices, IoT is also in demand to offer flexible
and easy lifestyle to the customers nowadays in the field of healthcare, grids,
cities, agriculture, etc. Increasing demand of IoT also increases the requirement of
automatic decision-making and intelligent machine to make accurate and efficient
decision-making by processing the data collected through various sensors that can
be achieved by ML algorithms. IoT network uses resource-constrained devices with
smaller memory and smaller computation power that leads to the usage of cloud-
based infrastructure for processing of data on cloud-based environment. Various
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 345
Table 13.2 AI/ML techniques used in 5G-enabled IoT with key features and advantages
Types of AI/ML
methodology Key techniques
How it’s helpful in
adversarial attack Advantages
Classification
algorithms-
supervised learning
Linear classifiers
Logistic
regression
Support vector
machines
Naive Bayes
classifier
Nearest neighbor
Neural networks
Decision tree
Etc.
Monitoring network
parameters such as
throughput and network fault
logs to detect anomalies
Flexible
modeling of
algorithms
with emerging
features
Agile and
self-evolving
nature of
frameworks for
defense
Clustering
algorithm-
unsupervised
learning
Gaussian mixture
model
K-means
Dimensionality
reduction
Markov decision
model
Categorize risks and
loopholes of different kinds in
network security
Extremely
complex data
sets for
automatic
clustering
Real-time data
discovery
Reinforcement
learning
Q learning
Gaming algorithm
Robot navigation
Deep Q learning.
Model learns from the
environment
Adaptive in nature
No training and testing
threshold
Highly robust
Agent learns
from action
taken and
reward
received
machine learning techniques can be used to train the data collected by various
sensors to offer intelligence to machines for automatic decision-making. In the area
of healthcare, supply chain management, cities, agriculture, etc., many latency-
sensitive applications ask for higher bandwidth which can be achieved by 5G
network. As seen in the above sections, machine leaning models which use the
same set of parameters for training and testing are vulnerable to adversarial attacks
which can be attempted by changing the parameter values. Moreover, privacy and
lack of control are the major issues in the cloud-based environment. Blockchain is
the promising solution which offers security in terms of integrity and transparency.
Figure 13.19 shows us the scenario of integration of blockchain with 5G-enabled
IoT system which uses cloud infrastructure for processing and storing data.
Here the scenario of embassy which approves the visa of various countries
after health examination of the person is taken to show the role of blockchain in
integration of 5G-enabled IoT with machine learning through cloud environment.
In traditional visa approval process, medical examination plays an important role.
The embassy-certified doctor can examine the person by reviewing immunization
and medical history of the person. The patient needs to go through various medical
tests like tuberculosis test, urine and blood test, etc. for the fulfillment requirement
to get visa of various countries. Nowadays, IoT-based smart healthcare devices can
346 M. H. Bohara et al.
Fig. 13.19 Blockchain-based smart heath examination system for visa approval
examine the person and send the data to cloud for processing. The cloud-based
system can share the data received from sensors with doctors and embassy officers
for reviewing and visa approval. However, the process of data sharing through cloud
saves time and money; the adversarial attack can be easily applied due to lack of
control in cloud.
The whole system can be moved on blockchain-based environment with 5G as
a communication protocol to achieve integrity, transparency, and higher bandwidth.
The scenario is depicted in Fig. 13.19.
8 Challenges of Integrating Adversarial Artificial
Intelligence Techniques to Secure 5G-Enabled IoT
The new advances in 5G networks promote the immersive growth of data connectiv-
ity through higher data speeds. Such a big rise in data traffic and connected devices
suggests further bugs, risks, and attacks that result in financially devastating harm.
Artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML) are intended to play a key
role in solving difficult problems of optimization in this context. There is a list of
challenges to integrate it with 5G-enabled IoT such as:
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 347
• High Bandwidth Demand – The vulnerability and privacy environment from
personal devices to the service provider network has also been broadened
by increased bandwidth, higher spectrum usage, and fast data speeds in 5G
networks. The network should also be clever enough to solve these issues in real
time; AI/ML approaches should help model these robust complex algorithms that
can help recognize network problems and offer real-time solutions to them which
is still challenging.
• Higher-Level Network Heterogeneity – Smart cars, smart houses, smart build-
ings, and smart cities are supported by 5G-enabled IoT networks. It would
require more stable and flexible strategies to deal with essential security problems
on both the network and system sides. Intrusion detection using AI/ML by
classifying the unauthenticated links would be useful to offer security solution.
5G IoT security and safety can span all levels, such as defense of identity, safety,
and machine-to-machine communication. In key authentication, AI techniques
found an essential role along with effectively mitigating masquerading attacks.
• Affordable Infrastructure and Lower Cost of Computing – AI/ML consume huge
amount of data and train itself. It takes a significant amount of time to process
the data collected from IoT devices and store into the cloud. Still optimization is
the biggest challenging in the existing algorithm to improve the performance in
real time.
9 Conclusion
In this chapter, artificial intelligence has a significant role in automation. Industry
4.0 is the current requirement to develop smart solutions securely. IoT-enabled
devices collect huge data and store it over the server. Every transaction between the
user to machine and machine to machine can be secured by blockchain technology
in terms of integrity. Adversarial machine learning is recent research issues to
identify the vulnerability in model and noisy data. Machine learning paradigms
provide different learning mechanisms depending on the type of data, continuous
data, categorical data, or image data. Types of attack on deep learning algorithms
and machine learning algorithms are open issues in computation study. A case study
covered in this chapter will be helpful to understand the real-time attack on traffic
direction and road signal identification. Some of the researchers have proven the
impact of attack in Industry 4.0. To make it 5G-based, IoT-enabled blockchain-
based system can be adopted to bypass the various types of attacks on the system.
For the enhancement in study, a small survey can be carried out by readers to aware
industry to check if their automation systems are preventing attacks and safe for data
alteration.
348 M. H. Bohara et al.
References
1. R.R. Reddy, C. Mamatha, R.G. Reddy, A review on machine learning trends, application and
challenges in internet of things, in 2018 International Conference on Advances in Computing,
Communications and Informatics (ICACCI), (IEEE, Piscataway, 2018)
2. S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, Multimedia Big Data Computing for IoT Applications:
Concepts, Paradigms and Solutions, Intelligent Systems Reference Library (Springer Nature,
Singapore, 2019), pp. 1–425
3. K. Thakkar, R. Thakor, P.K. Singh, M-tesla-based security assessment in wireless sensor
network, International Conference on Computational Intelligence and Data Science (ICCIDS
2018), NorthCap University, Gururgram, 07–08th April, Procedia, Computer Science, Elsevier,
1154–1162 (2018)
4. S. Tanwar, J. Vora, S. Kaneriya, S. Tyagi, Fog based enhanced safety management system
for miners, in 3rd International Conference on Advances in Computing, Communication &
Automation, (ICACCA-2017), (Tula Institute, Dehradhun, 2017), pp. 1–6
5. I. Bhudiraja, S. Tyagi, S. Tanwar, N. Kumar, et al., Tactile internet for smart communities in
5G: An Insight for NOMA-based Solutions. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 15(5), 3104–3112 (2019)
6. S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. bitcoin.org (2008)
7. S. Li, L.D. Xu, S. Zhao, 5G internet of things: A survey. J. Ind. Inf. Integr. 10, 1–9 (2018)
8. M. Agiwal, N. Saxena, A. Roy, Towards connected living: 5G enabled Internet of Things (IoT).
IETE Tech. Rev. 36(2), 190–202 (2019)
9. I. Mistry, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, Blockchain for 5G-enabled IoT for industrial
automation: A systematic review, solutions, and challenges. Mech. Syst. Sig. Process. 135,
106382 (2020)
10. C. Szegedy, W. Zaremba, I. Sutskever, J. Bruna, D. Erhan, I. Goodfellow, R. Fergus, Intriguing
properties of neural networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6199 (2013)
11. A. Krizhevsky, I. Sutskever, G.E. Hinton, Imagenet classification with deep convolutional
neural networks, in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, (Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers, San Mateo, 2012)
12. I.J. Goodfellow, J. Shlens, C. Szegedy, Explaining and harnessing adversarial examples. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1412.6572 (2014)
13. K. Tsui, Perhaps the simplest introduction of adversarial examples ever, Medium.com, 21 Aug
2018 [Online]. Available: https://towardsdatascience.com/perhaps-the-simplest-introduction-
of-adversarial-examples-ever-c0839a759b8d. [Accessed 2020]
14. J. Su, D.V. Vargas, K. Sakurai, One pixel attack for fooling deep neural networks. IEEE Trans.
Evol. Comput. 23(5), 828–841 (2019)
15. N. Carlini, D. Wagner, Towards evaluating the robustness of neural networks, in 2017 IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), (IEEE Computer Society, Los Alamitos, 2017)
16. N. Papernot, P. McDaniel, X. Wu, S. Jha, A. Swami, Distillation as a defense to adversarial
perturbations against deep neural networks, in 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy
(SP), (IEEE, Piscataway, 2016)
17. M. Dezfooli, S. Mohsen, A. Fawzi, P. Frossard, Deepfool: a simple and accurate method to
fool deep neural networks, in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, (IEEE, Piscataway, 2016)
18. N. Cristianini, J. Shawe-Taylor, An Introduction to Support Vector Machines (Cambridge
University Press, Cambridge, 2000)
19. S. Lawrence, C.L. Giles, Overfitting and neural networks: Conjugate gradient and backprop-
agation, in Proceedings of the IEEE-INNS-ENNS International Joint Conference on Neural
Networks. IJCNN 2000. Neural Computing: New Challenges and Perspectives for the New
Millennium, (IEEE Service Center, Piscataway, 2000)
20. U. Kose, Techniques for adversarial examples threatening the safety of artificial intelligence
based systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.06907 (2019)
http://medium.com
https://towardsdatascience.com/perhaps-the-simplest-introduction-of-adversarial-examples-ever-c0839a759b8d
13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT 349
21. R. Gupta, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, Machine learning models for secure data analytics:
A taxonomy and threat model. Comput. Commun. 153, 406–440 (2020)
22. S. Yang, S. Cai, F. Zheng, Y. Wu, K. Liu, M.Wu, Q. Zou, J. Chen, Representation of fluctuation
features in pathological knee joint vibroarthrographic signals using kernel density modeling
method. Med. Eng. Phys. 36(10), 1305–1311 (2014)
23. S.K. Halgamuge, L. Wang, Classification and Clustering for Knowledge Discovery, vol 4
(Springer Science, Cham, 2005)
24. A. Gattal, F. Abbas, M.R. Laouar, Automatic parameter tuning of K-means algorithm for
document binarization, in Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Software
Engineering and New Technologies, (ACM, New York, 2018)
25. R.S. Sutton, A.G. Barto, Introduction to Reinforcement Learning, vol 135 (MIT press,
Cambridge, 1998)
26. R. Gupta, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, Tactile internet and its applications in 5G Era: A
comprehensive review. Int J Commun Syst 32(14), 1–49 (2019)
27. R.R. Wiyatno, Tricking a machine into thinking you’re milla jovovich and other types of
adversarial attacks in machine learning, Medium, 9 August 2018 [Online]. Available: https://
medium.com/element-ai-research-lab/tricking-a-machine-into-thinking-youre-milla-jovovich-
b19bf322d55c. [Accessed 2020].
28. J. Lu, H. Sibai, E. Fabry D. Forsyth, No need to worry about adversarial examples in object
detection in autonomous vehicles. arXiv preprint arXiv:1707.03501 (2017)
29. A.A.R. Graese, T.E. Boult, Assessing threat of adversarial examples on deep neural networks,
in 2016 15th IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications (ICMLA),
(IEEE, Piscataway, 2016)
30. A. Kurakin, I. Goodfellow, S. Bengio, Adversarial examples in the physical world. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1607.02533 (2016)
31. Y. Liu, X. Chen, C. Liu, D. Song, Delving into transferable adversarial examples and black-box
attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.02770 (2016)
32. K. Eykholt, I. Evtimov, E. Fernandes, B. Li, A. Rahmati, C. Xiao, A. Prakash, T. Kohno, D.
Song, Robust physical-world attacks on deep learning visual classification, in Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, (IEEE Service Center,
Piscataway, 2018)
33. J.A. Alzubi, B. Bharathikannan, R. Manikandan, A. Khanna, C. Thaventhiran, Boosted neural
network ensemble classification for lung cancer disease diagnosis. Appl. Soft Comput. 80,
579–591 (2019)
34. B.K. Mohanta, S.S. Panda, D. Jena, An overview of smart contract and use cases in
Blockchain technology, in 2018 9th International Conference on Computing, Communication
and Networking Technologies (ICCCNT), (IEEE, Piscataway, 2018)
35. S.R. Mani Sekhar, G.M. Siddesh, S. Kalra, S. Anand, A study of use cases for smart contracts
using Blockchain technology. Int. J. Inf. Syst. Soc. Change 10(2), 15–34 (2019)
36. K. Sheth, K. Patel, H. Shah, S. Tanwar, R. Gupta, N. Kumar, A taxonomy of AI techniques for
6G communication networks. Comput. Commun. 161, 279–303 (2020)
37. J.-H. Noh, H.-Y. Kwon, A study on smart city security policy based on Blockchain in 5G
age, in 2019 International Conference on Platform Technology and Service (PlatCon), (IEEE,
Piscataway, 2019)
38. D. Minoli, Positioning of Blockchain mechanisms in IoT-powered smart home systems: A
gateway-based approach. Internet Things 10, 100147 (2020)
39. S. Jangirala, A.K. Das, A.V. Vasilakos, Designing secure lightweight blockchain-enabled
RFID-based authentication protocol for supply chains in 5G mobile edge computing environ-
ment. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 16(11), 7081–7093 (2020)
40. M.A. Ferrag, L. Shu, X. Yang, A. Derhab, L. Maglaras, Security and privacy for green IoT-
based agriculture: Review, blockchain solutions, and challenges. IEEE Access 8, 32031–32053
(2020)
41. M. Nassar, K. Salah, M.H. Rehman, D. Svetinovic, Blockchain for explainable and trustworthy
artificial intelligence. Wiley Interdiscip. Rev.: Data Min. Knowl. Discovery 10(1), 1340 (2020)
https://medium.com/element-ai-research-lab/tricking-a-machine-into-thinking-youre-milla-jovovich-b19bf322d55c
350 M. H. Bohara et al.
42. A. Goel, A. Agarwal, M. Vatsa, R. Singh, N. Ratha, DeepRing: Protecting deep neural network
with blockchain, in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition Workshops, (IEEE, Piscataway, 2019)
43. A. Goel, A. Agarwal, M. Vatsa, R. Singh, N. Ratha, Securing CNN model and biometric
template using Blockchain, in IEEE 10th International Conference on Biometrics Theory,
Applications and Systems (BTAS), (IEEE, Piscataway, 2019)
	13 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Assistance for Secure 5G-Enabled IoT
	1 Introduction
	1.1 Motivation
	1.2 Contribution of This Survey
	1.3 Organization
	2 Background Theory
	2.1 Blockchain Technology
	2.2 Blockchain Framework
	3 5G-Enabled IoT
	3.1 5G IoT Architecture
	3.2 Use of 5G-Enabled IoT in Blockchain
	4 Adversarial Artificial Intelligence
	4.1 Types of Attack
	4.1.1 Box-Constrained L-BFGS
	4.1.2 Fast Gradient Sign Method (FGSM)
	4.1.3 One-Pixel Attack
	4.1.4 Carlini and Wagner Attacks (C&W)
	4.1.5 DeepFool
	5 Trustworthy Machine Learning for Industry
	5.1 Machine Learning Technique and Issues
	5.2 Learning Paradigms
	5.2.1 Supervised Learning
	5.2.2 Unsupervised Learning
	5.2.3 Reinforcement Learning
	6 Understanding the Threat Landscape
	6.1 Case Study: Anomalous Traffic Detection
	6.2 Real-World Attacks
	6.2.1 Attack on Cell Phone Camera
	6.2.2 Attack on Road Sign
	7 Role of Blockchain for Industrial Automation
	7.1 Smart Home
	7.2 Smart City
	7.3 Supply Chain Management
	7.4 Smart Agriculture
	7.5 Smart Healthcare
	7.6 AI and Machine Learning
	7.7 Case Study
	8 Challenges of Integrating Adversarial Artificial Intelligence Techniques to Secure 5G-Enabled IoT
	9 Conclusion
	References