SIGCHI Conference Paper Format
Scalable System and Silicon Architectures to Handle  
the Workloads of the Post-Moore Era 
Ivo Bolsens 
Senior Vice President & Chief Technology Officer, Xilinx 
San Jose, CA, USA 
ivo@xilinx.com 
ABSTRACT 
The end of Moore’s law has been proclaimed on many occasions 
and it’s probably safe to say that we are now working in the 
post-Moore era. But no one is ready to slow down just yet. We 
can view Gordon Moore’s observation on transistor densification 
as just one aspect of a longer-term underlying technological 
trend – the Law of Accelerating Returns articulated by Kurzweil. 
Arguably, companies became somewhat complacent in the 
Moore era, happy to settle for the gains brought by each new 
process node. Although we can expect scaling to continue, albeit 
at a slower pace, the end of Moore’s Law delivers a stronger 
incentive to push other trends of technology progress harder. 
Some exciting new technologies are now emerging such as multi-
chip 3D integration and the introduction of new technologies 
such as storage-class memory and silicon photonics. Moreover, 
we are also entering a golden age of computer architecture 
innovation. 
One of the key drivers is the pursuit of domain-specific 
architectures as proclaimed by Turing award winners John 
Hennessy and David Patterson. A good example is the  Xilinx’s 
AI Engine, one of the important features of the Versal™ ACAP 
(adaptive compute acceleration platform) [1].  
Today, the explosion of AI workloads is one of the most powerful 
drivers shifting our attention to find faster ways of moving data 
into, across, and out of accelerators. Features such as massive 
parallel processing elements, the use of domain specific 
accelerators, the dense interconnect between distributed on-chip 
memories and processing elements, are examples of the ways 
chip makers are looking beyond scaling to achieve next-
generation performance gains.  
Next, the growing demands of scaling-out hyperscale datacenter 
applications drive much of the new architecture developments. 
Given a high diversification of workloads that invoke massive 
compute and data movement, datacenter architectures are 
moving away from rigid CPU-centric structures and instead 
prioritize adaptability and configurability to optimize resources 
such as memory and connectivity of accelerators assigned to 
individual workloads. There is no longer a single figure of merit. 
It’s not all about Tera-OPS. Other metrics such as transfers-per-
second and latency come to the fore as demands become more 
real-time; autonomous vehicles being an obvious and important 
example.  
Moreover, the transition to 5G will result in solutions that 
operate across the traditional boundaries between the cloud and 
edge and embedded  platforms that are obviously power-
conscious and cost-sensitive. Future workloads will require agile 
software flows that accommodate the spread of functions across 
edge and cloud. 
Another industry megatrend that will drive technology 
requirements especially in encryption, data storage  and 
communication,  is Blockchain. To some, it may already have a 
bad reputation, tarnished by association with the anarchy of 
cryptocurrency, but it will be more widely relevant than many of 
us realize. Who could have foreseen the development of today’s 
Internet when ARPANET first appeared as a simple platform for 
distributed computing and sending email? Through projects such 
as the open-source Hyperledger, Blockchain technology could be 
game-changing as a platform for building trust in transactions 
executed over the Internet. We may soon be talking in terms of 
the Trusted Internet.  
The predictability of Moore’s law may have become rather too 
comfortable and slow. The future requires maximizing the 
flexibility, agility, and efficiency of new technologies. 
With Moore’s Law now mostly behind us, new adaptable and 
scalable  architectures will allow us to further provide 
exponential return from technology in order to create a more  
adaptable and intelligent world. 
 
CCS Concepts/ACM Classifiers 
• Computer systems organization~Parallel architectures   
• Hardware~Reconfigurable logic and FPGAs   
• Hardware~Very large scale integration design 
 
Author Keywords 
Artificial intelligence, domain specific architectures, scale-out 
computing, adaptable compute acceleration platform 
 
 
 
 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or 
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or 
distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and 
the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for third-party components of this 
work must be honored. For all other uses, contact the Owner/Author(s).  
ISPD ’20, March 29–April 1, 2020, Taipei, Taiwan. 
© 2020 Copyright held by the owner/author.  
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-7091-2/20/03. 
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1145/3372780.3378166  
 
Keynote 1  
ISPD ’20, September 20–23, 2020, Taipei, Taiwan 
                Proceedings published March 29, 2020
1
mailto:ivo@xilinx.com
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3372780.3378166&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2020-03-30
BIOGRAPHY  
Ivo Bolsens is senior vice president and chief technology officer 
at Xilinx, with responsibility for advanced technology 
development and Xilinx research laboratories. Before he was 
vice-president embedded systems at IMEC, Belgium. He received 
his PhD in Electrical Engineering from the Catholic University of 
Leuven in Belgium.  
REFERENCES 
 [1] Kees Vissers, Versal  : The Xilinx Adaptive Compute 
Platform, Proceedings of the 2019 International Symposium 
on Field Programmable Gate Arrays 
 
 
 
Keynote 1  
ISPD ’20, September 20–23, 2020, Taipei, Taiwan 
                Proceedings published March 29, 2020
2