Artificial Intelligence Potential in Higher Education Institutions Enhanced Learning Environment in Romania and Serbia
Citation: Bucea-Manea-T, oniş, R.;
Kuleto, V.; Gudei, S.C.D.; Lianu, C.;
Lianu, C.; Ilić, M.P.; Păun, D.
Artificial Intelligence Potential in
Higher Education Institutions
Enhanced Learning Environment in
Romania and Serbia. Sustainability
2022, 14, 5842. https://doi.org/
10.3390/su14105842
Academic Editor: David
González-Gómez
Received: 26 March 2022
Accepted: 9 May 2022
Published: 11 May 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sustainability
Article
Artificial Intelligence Potential in Higher Education Institutions
Enhanced Learning Environment in Romania and Serbia
Rocsana Bucea-Manea-T, oniş 1,* , Valentin Kuleto 2 , Simona Corina Dobre Gudei 3, Costin Lianu 4,
Cosmin Lianu 3, Milena P. Ilić 2 and Dan Păun 5,*
1 Doctoral School, National University of Physical Education and Sport, 060057 Bucharest, Romania
2 LINK Group Belgrade, Information Technology School ITS-Belgrade, Faculty of Contemporary Arts Belgrade,
University Business Academy in Novi Sad, 11000 Belgrade, Serbia; valentin.kuleto@its.edu.rs (V.K.);
milena.ilic@its.edu.rs (M.P.I.)
3 Faculty of Economy and International Affairs, Academy of Economic Studies, 010374 Bucharest, Romania;
corinagudei@yahoo.com (S.C.D.G.); cosminila@hotmail.com (C.L.)
4 USH Pro Business, Spiru Haret University, 004021 Bucharest, Romania; clianu@gmail.com
5 Faculty of Physical Education, Spiru Haret University, 004021 Bucharest, Romania
* Correspondence: rocsense39@yahoo.com (R.B.-M.-T, .); ushefs_paun.dan@spiruharet.ro (D.P.)
Abstract: In their struggle to offer a sustainable educational system and transversal competencies
for market requests, significant transformations characterise the higher education system in Serbia
and Romania. According to EU policy, these transformations are related to educational reforms and
the introduction of new technology and methodologies in teaching and learning. They are expected
to answer to the PISA requirements and to increase the DESI (Digital Economy and Society Index).
They are also likely to mitigate the inequity of HEIs (higher education institutions), empowered
by a structured, goal-oriented strategy towards agile management in HEIs that is also appropriate
for new market demands. Our study is based on an exploratory survey applied to 139 Romanian
and Serbian teachers from the Information Technology School—ITS, Belgrade, and Spiru Haret
University, Romania. The survey let them provide their knowledge of AI or their perceptions of the
difficulties and opportunities of these technologies in HEIs. Our study discovered how difficulties
and opportunities associated with AI impact HEIs. This study aims to see how AI might assist
higher education in Romania and Serbia. We also considered how they might be integrated with the
educational system, and if instructors would utilise them. Developing creative and transversal skills
is required to anticipate future breakthroughs and technological possibilitiesThe new methods of
education focuses on ethics, values, problem-solving, and daily activities. Students’ learning material,
how they might achieve critical abilities, and their educational changes must be addressed in the
future. In this environment, colleges must create new digital skills in IA, machine learning, IoT,
5G, the cloud, big data, blockchain, data analysis, using MS Office and other applications, MOOCs,
simulation applications, VR/AR, and gamification. They must also develop cross-disciplinary skills
and a long-term mindset.
Keywords: higher education institutions (HEI); artificial intelligence (AI); transversal skills
1. Introduction
Regarding the quality of academic performance among students, PISA shows that
students’ socioeconomic status still significantly impact their academic performance. Ac-
cording to a study in Singapore, the country with the best education system, “Wrong
recruitment decisions can result in 40 years of poor teaching”. As a result, it is not just
about your school, but the system’s overall success. Moreover, they stress that students
learn at different points in their lives [1].
High-quality learning outcomes and relevant competencies are the goals of HE. The
quality of education is assessed using appropriate methods to addresses current and future
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14105842 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14105842
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14105842
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2708-1325
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7811-5436
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9719-175X
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9859-7399
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14105842
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/su14105842?type=check_update&version=2
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 2 of 18
issues. Blockchain and MOOCs can improve education. Externally conducted internships,
simulations and experiments by practitioners, and degree theses developed with non-HEI
organisations may represent educational quality. Additionally, student engagement and
learning outcomes are important markers of instruction quality.
“Rewrite the Meritocracy” is the ground of the Singaporean system. For the ability to
lead, manage, and achieve coherence in teaching and learning, goals and standards must
be clearly defined and rigorously enforced. Moreover, teachers and administrators must be
of the highest calibre [2–5]. Rewards and recognition programs can motivate employees,
such as honours and salary bonuses. The students should also be evaluated individually,
following their excellence strategy. However, emphasising the meritocracy alone is not
enough to guarantee equity [6].
In European countries, digital performance and evolution in digital competitiveness
are evaluated by the Digital Economy and Society Index (DESI), a composite index. The
DESI is composed of connectivity, human capital related to the internet, the use of internet
services and online businesses, the integration of digital technology, and digital public
services such as e-government and e-health [7]. Technology refers to facilities brought
by Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs), e-learning platforms, artificial intelligence
(AI), and blockchain. Methodology refers mainly to implementing new teaching styles
such as learning by doing, solving problems, gaming, interactive teaching, and developing
transversal competencies and transferable knowledge. According to the DESI, Nordic
countries (the Netherlands, Lithuania) have the most advanced digital economies, are
the top performers in terms of internet user skills, advanced skills, and development,
and have the highest rate of information and communications technology (ICT) usage by
workers, as well as the highest shares of ICT specialists in total employment. At the same
time, Bulgaria, Romania, Italy, and Serbia oppositely tilt the scale/balance, but they all
have great potential for improvement. Furthermore, through its Digital Skills and Jobs
Coalition, the Commission seeks to further reduce the digital skill gaps by fostering the
sharing, replicating, and upscaling of best practices in training and matching for digital
jobs, certification, and raising awareness [8].
Keeping this context in mind, universities have to create new learning environments
that support the understanding of digital technologies. They might use technology, such
as MOOC platforms [9,10], blockchain, and AI, to facilitate problem-based learning by
performing creative simulations and experiments. The balance between working and
social life could be more manageable if AI facilities were implemented correctly in e-
learning and on e-learning platforms. Modern students must be prepared for the future’s
businesses and be capable of solving different problems with the transversal skills acquired.
Therefore, these universities must create transversal and transferable skills [11,12]. This
would be made possible by the innovative mindset of the teachers and their ability to
juggle disruptive innovations. They will bring a competitive advantage, facilitate the
smooth transition from school to the business field, and evolve continuously and include
sustainable development goals (SDGs) in education transversally [4,13].
This study involves cabinet research, examining the academic units of available knowl-
edge and experience. Various publications of international and national institutions were
used as sources, including: OECD, USAID, UNESCO, the European Commission, the
United Nations, the World Economic Forum, IASA, the Republic of Serbia Government,
and the Statistical Office of the Republic of Serbia [14–24]. In addition, this is exploratory
research, given that data from 103 Serbian teachers from the Information Technology
School—ITS, Belgrade, and Spiru Haret University, Romania were analysed to determine
these teachers’ knowledge of AI or their perceptions of the difficulties and applications of
these technologies in HEIs. Our study evaluates the challenges met in the implementation
of AI in HEIs, the applications brought by the performance of AI in HEIs, and the influences
between them.
The motivation for this research is the intention of the researchers to comprehensively
view and present the higher education sector in the Republic of Serbia and Romania. In
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 3 of 18
addition, researchers in higher education institutions in these countries are interested
in implementing modern technologies in education and are actively involved in their
implementation and use in their faculties.
The study’s objective is to discover the main difficulties and applications brought by
AI technology in the current stage of the educational system in Romania and Serbia and to
discover if the teachers are eager to implement those technologies in their teaching process.
Therefore, the main focus of the research is dealing with the objectives of our analysis and
analysing formative and reflective variables.
We used the IMRaD model (introduction, methods, results, and discussion) for the
paper structure, with modifications. Following the introduction chapter, we will offer a
necessary theoretical background in a chapter with the same title, clarifying the goals of
higher education and providing explanations regarding AI. Following that, we will conduct
a SWOT analysis of the Serbian and Romanian higher education systems. The methodology
chapter will provide the model built for this research study and the strategies that we will
utilise to perform our research. We will present the study objective, the survey that will be
conducted, and the variables and hypotheses that will be employed. We will provide the
findings of our investigation in this chapter. In the discussion chapter, we will explore the
essential findings of our study and compare them to the findings of other recent studies.
At the end of the chapter, we will conclude the study and examine the theoretical basis,
implications, limitations, and subsequent actions.
2. Theoretical Background
The Common Digital Competence Framework for Teachers emphasises five directions
for obtaining digital competence for teachers: information and data literacy, communication
and collaboration, digital content creation, safety, and problem solving [25].
Information and data literacy was addressed in HEIs and refers to performing the
analysis, interpretation, comparison, and evaluation of sources of data, as well as infor-
mation on the basics of AI and its applications, and applying searches to obtain data and
information for applying leading AI technologies.
Communication and collaboration are essential in student–teacher relations, and offer
the opportunity to develop imaginative and transversal skills to anticipate future inventions
and the potential of new technologies [25]. Ethics, values, engaging students in problem
solving, and day-by-day activities must at the leading edge of education. The issues
regarding learning content for students, the way they can learn these broader competencies,
and what changes are required in the education sector must be addressed in the right way
in the future [18,19,26,27].
Digital content creation refers to applying the different ways to modify, refine, improve,
and integrate simple items of new content and information to create new and original
ones. In this regard, universities need to develop new digital skills, such as AI, machine
learning, IoT, 5G, the cloud, big data, blockchain, data analysis, using MS Office and other
applications, MOOCs, simulation applications, virtual reality/augmented reality (VR/AR),
and gamification [28–30]. In addition, they need to develop transversal interdisciplinary
skills and multidisciplinary hubs with a sustainable mindset [13]. Finally, problem solving
refers to evaluating, selecting, and using appropriate digital tools and technologies to
represent capabilities and basic AI algorithms, and to apply different digital tools and
technologies to define problems and select the appropriate means for problem solving.
2.1. HE Objectives and Information and Data Literacy
The objectives of HE are fostering sustainable learning outcomes, providing high-
quality teaching and education, and developing adequate competencies while following
sustainable economy requirements. Learning outcomes in HE depend on the appropriate
methods for evaluating the quality of education. There are many difficulties, including
the diversity of the participants, the teaching infrastructure, inappropriate management
regarding funding, curricula, transferable competencies, knowledge transfer, interactivity
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 4 of 18
with students, making learning easy and fun with creative game applications, simulations,
experiments, and problem-solving activities. Creating an appropriate environment for
study will increase student participation in classes, creativity, and innovation. Sustainable
education will answer the current and future economic, environmental, and medical
difficulties. Quality education can be implemented by utilising blockchain technology
and MOOC platforms. Blockchain technology allows users to be rewarded with discount
vouchers for their activities. These vouchers might be converted into virtual currency [31].
A high user commitment will follow this system in the learning and teaching process if
the socio-psychological human needs are addressed through face-to-face interaction and
psychological compensations. More research must be conducted to develop innovative
solutions [2–5].
The quality of education might be reflected in the students’ and staff’s performance
and their impact on the economy and environment, successful graduate employment,
internationalisation, fructuous collaboration with the work environment, such as through
internship inclusion, practical experience, simulations, and experiments conducted by
practitioners from outside the HEI, and degree theses elaborated in partnership with non-
HEI organisations. However, the leading indicator for the instruction endowment is student
commitment and the educational process outcomes [32,33].
2.2. AI, Backgrounds
Artificial intelligence is observed as an area of computer science that observes intel-
ligent machines that operate and think like humans. This includes speech recognition,
natural language processing (NLP), image recognition, etc. ML presents the usage of
AI in enabling the systems to learn and develop based on experience without explicitly
programming them to do so. In machine learning, for example, computers learn from data,
not coded instructions [34].
The use of AI in different fields boomed in the last years, teaching and learning in
higher education being only one dimension of this evolution. Innovative digital solutions
emerge almost every month from sectors that are as different as possible, such as health,
manufacturing, logistics, creative industries, design, defence, public goods, accountability,
and many others. Therefore, investigating the implications of emerging technologies for
education is an important aspect. Artificial intelligence is progressing at an accelerated
pace, which already impacts the profound nature of services within higher education. On
one hand, students should learn how AI will change the future of jobs.
On the other hand, HEI should adapt the way they teach, applying new technologies
in the educational and pedagogical practices. In both methods, adopting new technologies
in higher education has to be accelerated to keep pace with other training options for
the students in an open environment. There are challenges in teaching, learning, student
support, and innovative or entrepreneurial universities that open many research direc-
tions [35,36]. HEIs should not only keep pace with developments in new technologies
and the computing capacities of new intelligent machines, but should be at the centre
of this transformation as a digital innovation hub. Therefore, many universities took a
step forward in becoming the core of digital transformation for many European countries
under the concept of EDIH, or European Digital Innovation Hubs, where AI is the centre of
attention [35].
Concerning real or virtual settings, an AI system can make forecasts, suggestions,
or judgments to answer a set of human-defined objectives. AI systems are supposed to
be partially self-sufficient [18]. AI tools are used in education to explain and assist with
learning and teaching [35]. By 2025, the global education focused expenditure on AI in
education will exceed USD 6 billion. China will lead this growth, accounting for almost
half of the worldwide AI education investment [36].
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 5 of 18
2.3. The Difficulties and Barriers to Providing Services in HEI
Every country is experiencing disruptions, such as shifting geopolitical powers, chang-
ing jobs, or a lack of educational applications due to new technologies such as AI and
robotics or 5G, which require a new mindset and new methods of education. Some of
these methods include universities without walls, experimental problem-solving, home
education, MOOCs under blockchain technologies such as Tutellus [2,3], and a discrepancy
between what businesses need and what academic and vocational education can provide.
The consequences of the post-COVID-19 period are dire: low-income countries have
86% of their kids in school, compared to just 20% in high-income countries, with a loss of
30% in reading comprehension and 50% in math proficiency. There has been an impact
on students’ social, emotional, and cognitive evolution, large numbers of dropouts from
general education schools, significant lags in digital connectivity, online digital skills by
businesses, and digital public services [28–30]. Addendum 1 to this document: all countries
must dramatically improve their cognitive skills (literacy and numeracy) and problem-
solving in technology-rich environments [37–41]. Students who might not otherwise be
able to access knowledge can benefit from MOOCs, as can those who cannot pay the high
prices of traditional higher education. In addition, MOOCs are a helpful form of online
learning that may be used to supplement formal university education [37–41].
AI integration in schools, the workplace, and daily life will have a tremendous effect
on our digital literacy abilities and our ability to improve our digital competencies. By
monitoring speech and search habits and offering online resources to supplement their
knowledge, this expansion of AI will assist more individuals in developing their digital lit-
eracy abilities. AI will accomplish this through its “ability to acquire and analyse contextual
information” gleaned from our interactions with our devices [37–41].
3. SWOT Analysis
An INPUT SWOT analysis (available applications, practitioner capability, the client
group, and its potential) shows over half of HR in Nordic countries have a Bachelor’s
degree in science, math, computing, engineering, manufacturing, or construction. The
other countries have a large pool of creative and ICT industry talent. Still, they cannot
turn this advantage into a facilitator of digital transformation for small and medium-
sized businesses and the government sector. The gap between entrepreneurial transversal
management skills and ICT and design skills needs to be filled by integrating these two
disciplines better. In addition, good practices must be learned from countries that have
already experimented with them [42,43].
Serbia is characterised by several belongings, such as entirely digitised corporate
operations for companies in critical administrative centres, and employees are required to
have varying levels of digital competence. Since 2013, the most significant degree of digital
proficiency has tripled in demand. The struggle for Serbian digital enterprises is to broaden
into the smaller and more inaccessible areas of the country. Developing people who can use
digital technology creatively and respond to quickly changing needs is challenging. The
state should facilitate the process of digitalisation through digitising public administration
and the education system. An increasing number of students want to be skilled in the digital
world in Serbia. Tough jobs such as administration, system administration, and project
management demand more excellent digital expertise. Consumer digital competency is
now moderate. In the coming months and years, the state should focus on the following
areas: the management of personal data, digital payments and money, and digital consumer
rights after purchase [44,45].
Romania has a relatively large pool of talents in the creative and ICT industries.
However, there are also weaknesses in transforming this opportunity into a promoter
of digital transformation for SMEs and the public sector. A better connection between
entrepreneurial transversal managerial skills and disciplines with ICT and design skills is
needed to fill the gap [46–48].
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 6 of 18
We based our research mostly on practical experience accumulated in USH Pro Busi-
ness (www.ushprobusiness.ro, accessed on 28 March 2022), an entrepreneurial centre of
the university dealing with complex interactions between academics, students, businesses,
employers’ associations, and business clusters in the last five years. This experience gave us
a practical opportunity to explore an enhanced educational environment to learn how AI
technologies can match, considering the prospective technological performance companies
offer. Therefore, the main findings are based upon this interaction, enabling us to research
how AI’s best technological models with the business may be transferred to HEIs.
Thus, we support our research through the active involvement of USH Pro Business
in specialised technology transfer services, information actions, and knowledge transfer
from the university environment to the business environment in the area of digitalisation.
As a result, Centrul became a member of the National Council for Digital Transformation
(CNTD) within the Authority for the Digitization of Romania (ADR). CNTD, the advisory
body of ADR, has the primary objective of supporting Romania’s technological, economic,
and social development. The membership status in CNTD was validated by the decision of
the President of ADR, according to the provisions of GD 89/2020, art. 17, para. (6).
Moreover, USH Pro Business became a founding member of the DIH (digital inno-
vation hub) structures, and is a founding member of Smart eHub (http://smartehub.eu/
about-us/, accessed on 28 March 2022), the Smart Alliance Innovation Technology Cluster,
and the ELINCLUS Cluster. A digital innovation consortium was created to offer organisa-
tions from the Bucharest–Ilfov and South Muntenia regions the possibility of accessing a
one-stop shop, where they can obtain innovative digital solutions that meet their needs.
Through Smart eHub, USH Pro Business collaborates and works together with main
actors, such as public authorities, the private business environment, universities, non-
governmental organisations, research institutes, and companies in the ICT field, to find
feasible solutions for transformation through digitalisation so that there is a relevant impact
on the Romanian economy.
Through this DIH, the centre is also a member of the AgROBOfood Network of the
Digital Innovation Hubs (DIHs) in Central and Eastern Europe, which supports companies
in introducing and promoting new robotic technologies in the agri-food sector in the region,
providing access to the expertise available from the European network (there are 49 DIHs,
covering 19 member states).
PROCESS SWOT refers to needs assessment, action plan development, and collabora-
tion with other organisations, process-engaged clients, and practical practitioners. High-
performing states require a policy infrastructure that facilitates performance and sustains
educators’ capacity to implement it in educational institutions. Peer-to-peer learning is en-
couraged by professional learning communities and teacher networks. It is recommended
to develop classroom-focused research to support educators to adapt to changing curricula,
pedagogies, and digital resources [49,50].
In the new educational system, important issues to be addressed are ICT skills devel-
opment for teachers, changing the mindset of the teachers and the HE manager, changing
their vision, leadership, competence, and coherence, and extensively training the trainer
campaigns for HEI staff. In addition, adult education is the focus of the cross-sectoral and
inter-institutional dialogue [51,52] that addresses the issues regarding (1) increasing social
partners’ involvement and relevance, (2) the significance of the role played by the third
sector, (3) favourable legal framework, and (4) labour market intelligence and the validity
of the information.
OUTCOMES SWOT refers to changes in knowledge or transversal skills, changes
in life and circumstances, changes in employment, or training status: it is essential to
find a job or training program that matches your talents and aspirations, incorporating
professionals from a variety of fields to create interdepartmental networks that emphasise
entrepreneurship, information and communications technology (ICT), sustainability (re-
ducing the environmental footprint), design, human health (including one-health), and
the green economy. Boosting clusters of innovation and a cross-subject approach can be a
www.ushprobusiness.ro
http://smartehub.eu/about-us/
http://smartehub.eu/about-us/
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 7 of 18
good starting point for strengthening employment services that favour upskilling tailored
to individual needs—e.g., using MOOCs and blockchain technology to create universities
that do not have walls [53–57].
The ecological agronomy, innovation, cultural background, education, intelligent
houses, smart cities and villages, etc., reduce environmental footprints and are among the
interdisciplinarity clusters that the Romanian SWOT results reveal. In terms of interdisci-
plinarity, we have combined disciplines in creative industries, design, and management for
the one-health food security fields [58–60]. Lessons learned from previous projects were
included in the conception of a new course (CoP in new agro-ecology standards), and were
used for the technology and knowledge transfer centre [61,62].
Serbia has the most significant outcomes in OECD studies for educational evaluation
and assessment. Serbia’s education system is superior to other Western Balkan countries.
School access has improved. However, progress has not been uniform. Many Serbian
students drop out of high school before mastering the core abilities required for future
education. Many educational issues must be addressed if the country is to thrive economi-
cally, socially, and politically. Clusters of interdisciplinarity are being designed to focus on
human well-being, one-health, and interdisciplinarity. Interdisciplinarity and a mental shift
are required in Serbia. The fourth aim of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development
spotlights education: the eventual goal is to “promote lifelong learning and equal access to
high-quality education” (2030). “Increase the number of children and adults with suitable
transversal skills, including technical and vocational talents, especially workforce ones,”
says aim 4.4 [44].
4. Methodology
4.1. Research Aim and Survey
This research aims to discover the main difficulties and applications brought by AI
technology in the current stage of the educational system in Romania and Serbia. We also
analysed their utility in the educational system and the teacher’s desire to implement them.
On this subject, we designed a survey that contains multiple-answer questions, and
honest answers were analysed qualitatively. We chose the Likert scale for multiple-answer
questions. The survey was applied among teachers at the Serbian High Vocational School
for Information Technologies (Information Technology School—ITS Belgrade) and Romania
at Spiru Haret University. It was based on other university experiences [44,63–65]. Unfortu-
nately, from 139 answers, only 103 records (answers from HEI) were validated. Thus, this
is preliminary research and, therefore, a more thorough study on a representative sample is
necessary to conduct secondary research. For data analysis, we used SmartPLs Software
version 3.0 (University of South Alabama, Mobile, AL, USA), making inferential and vari-
able association analyses. We designed a confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) method to
analyse the opportunities, challenges, and utilities. We measured the impact of each factor:
opportunity challenges and utilities of implementing AI in HEIs. CFA allowed us to set up
restrictions over the model, grouping survey questions into four variables (Table 1) and
setting the direction of influence/relations between them. The main disadvantage of CFA
is that it does not show the direction of influence. Still, it can measure the impact of each
factor and subfactor and show if the model presents a good fit of data and is consistent.
The model calculates the loading factors of each variable. This was the main reason we
used the CFA and not a predictive analysis, such as a regression model [65,66].
The software will estimate the model saturation based on a series of indices that
enhance how well the model explains the variables and fits the hypothesis established.
In this regard, we can mention absolute indices, such as the statistic value of chi-square
(that allows inferential statistics) or standardized root mean square residual (SRMR), and
relative indices, such as the normed fit index (NFI), and comparative indices such as
Akaike’s information criterion (AIC) and the Bayesian information criterion (BIC) The
relevance of the latent constructs designed was analysed with Cronbach’s alpha test, and
the consistency of the model was evaluated with composite reliability, rho_A, and average
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 8 of 18
variance extracted (AVE). The model’s multicollinearity was tested with the variance
inflation factor (VIF) criterion [67,68].
Table 1. Variable analysed.
Var Label Var Subitems Variable Definition LF
AIOpp
Opresent Creating presentation and teaching material. 0.681
Ocompetence Selection of teaching material concerning the competencies and student’s interests. 0.564
Oplan Creating individual learning plans for students. 0.537
Orequire Selection of teaching material in relation to the subject requirements. 0.5
OFeedback Providing feedback on student success. 0.488
Olecture Teaching (lectures). 0.475
Oreview Review of homework, tests, and other written assignments, monitoring student
achievement, and providing feedback. 0.458
OPlagiat Detection of plagiarism in the student papers. 0.365
Odificult Detection of educational challenges and difficulties in acquiring knowledge
among students. 0.347
Oemotion Detection of socio-emotional challenges and difficulties in acquiring knowledge
among students. 0.23
Odevelop Detection the need for a professional development. 0.162
Oadmin Administrative jobs (creation of working reports and tasks). 0.112
Contribution Implement I would like to participate in the implementation and development of AI in my school. 1
AIChallenge
Cogn Integrating cognitive projects with system and privacy issues. 0.574
Cost The cost of technology. 0.188
Challenge The crude nature of technology. −0.034
Digital Digital illiteracy. 0.488
Expert The lack of AI technology experts. 0.471
Strategy The lack of an appropriate implementation strategy. −0.072
AIutility
AIhelp AI identifies students with low activity. 0.652
AIwarn AI prevents inappropriate learning of students’ behaviours. 0.513
AIperf AI enforces student motivation and active presence in online activities. 0.86
AIcustom AI can tailor the learning process for different students. 0.775
AIinsight AI helps teacher correct and evaluate student performance. 0.712
AIerr AI can suggest appropriate teaching materials for students with a lack of knowledge. 0.52
AIlect AI facilitates the teacher’s process of searching for lecture content. 0.718
AIcont AI facilitates time management when designing the teaching content. 0.881
AIteacherr AI reduces teachers’ errors. 0.713
AIteachacc AI facilitates teachers’ successful work. 0.978
4.2. Variables and Hypothesis
In our analysis, we set up four variables: AIopp (applications offered by AI in HEIs)—a
formative variable with 12 items, AIChallenge (difficulties associated with AI in HEIs)—a
constructive variable with six items, AIutility (HEI activities facilitated by AI)—an auto-
matic variable with ten items, and Contribution (teacher desire for implementing AI in
HEIs), a reflexive variable. All these items are presented in Figure 1 and Table 1.
The hypotheses of the research are:
H1: Activities performed with the AI tools are positively influenced by applications brought
by the use of AI in HEIs.
H2: Activities performed with the AI tools are affected by difficulties associated with the
help of AI in HEIs.
H3: Teachers’ desire to implement AI in HEIs depends on the opportunities and challenges
brought by AI.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 9 of 18
Figure 1. Cronbach’s alpha coefficients and path analysis.
4.3. Research Results
4.3.1. Construct Reliability and Validity
SmartPls software provides many tests that can be used to ensure a coherent analysis
and interpretation of data and to assume the research outputs. For example, the consistency
of our model was grounded on the validation steps provided in Table 2 [66,67]. All the
considered variables present very high values for composite reliability: Cronbach’s alpha
and rho_A (>0.7—the bottom value authorised), and average variance extracted (AVE)
(>0.5—the bottom value approved), meaning that convergent validity can be assumed.
These results empower us to believe that all our hypotheses are validated to different
extents. (Table 2, Figure 1).
Table 2. Validation steps/tests.
Variable Cronbach’s Alpha Rho_A Composite Reliability Average Variance Extracted
AIChallenge 1
AIopp 1
AIutility 0.928 0.938 0.924 0.556
Contribution 1 1 1 1
The loading factors (LFs) for latent constructs in Table 1 and Figure 1 enhance that, in
the teacher’s opinion, AI’s implementation in HEIs is used with predilection for designing
the course content (LF = 0.681), choosing the suitable teaching material following the
students’ interests and competencies (LF = 0.564), creating and adapting the learning plans
for each student (LF = 0.537), choosing the excellent course sections’ content following
students’ requirements (LF = 0.500), having good communication and providing feedback
to students regarding the success of their task (LF = 0.488), teaching lectures (LF = 0.475), in
the process of written homework and other tasks’ evaluation (LF = 0.458), and the detection
of plagiarism in student papers (LF = 0.365). AI has not been considered as an opportunity
to detect socio-emotional issues and students’ needs for professional guidance. The teachers
seem uninterested in administrative tasks such as creating working reports and functions,
probably because they are not asked to write them too often.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 10 of 18
Our analysis emphasises that teachers consider that significant challenges of AI im-
plementation in HEIs are integrating cognitive projects with system and privacy issues
(LF = 0.574); teachers are not trained very well regarding digital issues and AI (LF = 0.488),
and there are not enough AI technology experts to solve unexpected or critical problems
caused by technology (LF = 0.471). Moreover, the teachers are not very aware or con-
cerned about the cost of technology (LF = 0.188), its difficult nature (LF = −0.034), and
inappropriate strategies for AI’s implementation in HEIs (LF = −0.072).
Based on the opportunities and challenges presented above, the teachers consider that,
overall, AI can help them to have success in professional activity (LF = 0.978), save time
when planning the class content (LF = 0.881), improve student performance and engagement
(LF = 0.86), and personalise the learning process by identifying the best way to teach mate-
rials (audio, video, e-book), which will significantly contribute to the quality of teaching
(LF = 0.775). Teachers use AI in choosing materials for lecture content (LF = 0.718), making
fewer mistakes (LF = 0.713), having better insight into student performance (LF = 0.712),
identifying students at risk (LF = 0.652), analysing students’ incorrect answers and suggest-
ing which teaching units require additional instruction (LF = 0.52), and using the system to
automatically provide warnings for students’ risky behaviours (LF = 0.513).
Having all these elements in mind, the teachers agree to contribute to AI’s imple-
mentation in HEIs. The Cronbach’s alpha analysis shows that the questionnaire items
were appropriate for our analysis, as the sub-items for the reflective variables AIutility
(0.924) and Contribution (1) had values higher than 0.7, the bottom line, as shown in
Figure 1 and Table 2.
4.3.2. Discriminant Validity
Our model is statistically robust, as the Fornell–Larcker criterion and heterotrait–
monotrait criteria are met, because all values obtained are less than 0.70 (Table 3):
• AIChallenge→AIutility (0.253)—Challenges brought by AI implementations seem not
to have a high impact on the activities’ utility, performed by AI; rather, they have a
positive effect, being considered an urging factor for digitalisation;
• AIopp→AIutility (0.511)—Opportunities brought by AI implementations have a posi-
tive impact on the activities’ utility, performed by AI;
• AIChallenge→Contribution (−0.137)—Challenges associated with AI brings reticence
in teachers’ desire to implement AI in HEIs;
• AIopp→Contribution (0.459)—opportunities brought by AI enhance the teacher’s
willingness to implement AI in HEIs.
Table 3. Discriminant validity.
Fornell–Larcker Criterion Heterotrait–Monotrait
Variable AIChallenge AIopp AIutility AIChallenge AIutility
AIChallenge
AIopp 0.007
AIutility 0.253 0.511 0.746
Contribution −0.137 0.459 0.409 01 0.414
The Fornell–Larcker criterion calculates the square root (SR) of each construct’s AVE,
checks if it is higher than its correlation with another construct, and checks if the loading
factor is highest on its associated construct. It measures the variance among latent model
constructs. It depends on AVE and CR. Heterotrait–monotrait is a new approach that
evaluates discriminant validity as a measure of similarity between latent variables [67,68].
The steps presented in Tables 2–4 empower us to assume that the indicators of
the constructs AIopp, AIutility, and AIChallenge present a positive correlation. As a
result, a medium positive correlation (Table 4) is observed between AIopp and AIutil-
ity (0.511) and AIopp and Contribution (0.459), and a small one between AIutility and
Contribution (0.409).
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 11 of 18
Table 4. Variable correlation.
Latent Variable Correlation R Square R Square Adjusted F Square
Variable AIChallenge AIopp Aiutility AIChallenge AIutility Contribution
AIChallenge 1 0.092 0.025
AIopp 0.007 1 0.323 0.305 0.382 0.275
AIutility 0.253 0.511 1
Contribution −0.137 0.459 0.409 1 0.230 0.209
The chi-square for the estimated model (609.569) is greater than the chi-square for the
saturated model (603.029). Other hypothesis tests (SRMR, d_ULS, d_G) also have higher
estimates for the estimated model than for the saturated model. Thus, we may affirm that
our model fits, and that H1, H2, and H3 are accepted (Table 5). The standardised root mean
square residual (SRMR) has a value of less than 0.1, explaining a good fit [65–68]. d_ULS
represents the squared Euclidean distance, and d_G represents the geodesic distance used
to compute discrepancy based on the eigenvalue. The normed fit index (NFI), or Bentler
and Bonett index, is then defined as one minus the Chi2. The more parameters in the model,
the larger (i.e., better) the NFI result. Thus, our hypothesis is confirmed by a consistent
model (Table 5). The software chooses the model in which the AIC has a minimum value.
Table 5. Model Fit.
Test Fit Summary Var AIC AICu BIC
Saturated Model Estimated Model −15.138 −12.078 64.417
Chi-Square 603.029 609.569 −25.030 −21.970 54.525
SRMR 0.087 0.9
d_ULS 3.298 3.542
d_G 1.630 1.645
4.3.3. Collinearity Statistics VIF
The VIF of each construct was calculated to check the significance of variables. Table 6
show an overview of the findings. The values are less than 5 for each subitem. Thus, we
may declare that the overall VIF shows no multicollinearity between variables. Therefore,
we may guarantee that H1, H2, and H3 are accepted, based on the above criteria.
Table 6. VIF Coefficients.
Variable VIF Variable VIF Variable VIF
OFeedback 2.409 AIhelp 3.308 Implement 1
Oreview AIwarn 2.547 Cogn 1.693
OPlagiat 1.546 AIperf 3.953 Cost 2.034
Oadmin 1.426 AIcustom 2.979 Challenge 2.054
Odevelop 1.291 AIinsight 2.464 Digital 1.858
Ocompetence 3.064 AIerr 2.347 Expert 2.095
Orequire 1.868 AIlect 2.881 Strategy 1.863
Opresent 2.103 AIcont 3.131
Odificult 1.812 AIteacherr 3.396
Olecture 2.041 AIteachacc 4.253
Oemotion 1.384
Oplan 3.464
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 12 of 18
5. Discussion
The study aims to evaluate the main difficulties and applications that AI technology
brings to the educational system in Romania and Serbia at the current stage of their
development. As a result, we devised a survey that included multiple-choice questions
and open-ended responses that were analysed qualitatively. Keeping in mind previous
research [63–65,68], the survey was administered to current teachers at Serbia’s Information
Technology School—ITS, Belgrade and Romania’s Spiru Haret University. Unfortunately,
only 139 of the responses were validated. Thus, this exploratory study will be repeated if
the results conclude. Moreover, the results might not be extrapolated to the whole statistical
population to conduct a more thorough representative sample analysis.
The development of innovative and transversal talents is necessary to foresee future
inventions and the possibilities of new technologies. Therefore, ethics, values, problem-
solving, and daily activities were at the forefront of education. In the future, students’
learning content, how they might gain these more significant competencies, and what
changes are required in education must be appropriately handled [44].
In this context, universities must develop new digital skills in IA, machine learning,
IoT, 5G, the cloud, big data, blockchain, data analysis, using MS Office and other applica-
tions, MOOCs, simulation applications, VR/AR, and gamification. They must also build
transversal transdisciplinary abilities and a sustainable mentality [13]. An example of using
technology even in sport is offered by United States in the Oregon Project for measurements
of the optimal intensity of athletes’ heart, lung, brain, kidney, and liver values, etc. for
athletes training [69].
HE aims to achieve sustainable learning outcomes and high-quality teaching and
education, and to acquire appropriate competencies. The quality of education is eval-
uated using proper methods and methodologies. The inappropriate handling of funds
and curricula was found, but interactivity with students was present; they were making
learning easy and exciting with unique game applications. Providing a conducive learning
environment increases student participation, creativity, and innovation. Education for a
sustainable future will address present and future challenges. High-quality education may
be implemented with blockchain and MOOCs. Using blockchain technology, individuals
can earn discount vouchers for their actions. Vouchers can be exchanged for virtual money.
This system will have high user commitment if the socio-psychological human needs are
satisfied through face-to-face connection and psychological compensations. More study is
needed to find creative solutions [70].
Internships, practical experience, simulations, and experiments conducted by practi-
tioners outside the HEI, as well as degree theses elaborated in partnership with non-HEI
organisations, may reflect the quality of education. In addition, student commitment and
educational process outcomes are significant indicators for instruction endowment.
Artificial intelligence studies the construction of intelligent machines that act and think
like humans—speech, NLP, picture, etc. ML uses AI to enable systems to learn and develop
without explicit programming. In machine learning, for example, computers learn from
data, not scripted instructions [34].
An AI system can provide forecasts, suggestions, or judgments in response to human-
defined objectives. AI systems are designed to be semi-autonomous. AI tools in education
help explain and teach. Global education spending on AI will hit USD 6 billion by 2025.
Around half of international AI education funding will come from China.
Changing geopolitical powers, changing jobs, and a lack of educational applications
due to new technologies such as AI and robotics or 5G requires a new mindset and
educational methods, such as universities without walls, experimental problem solving,
home education, and MOOCs under blockchain technology such as Tutellus [2,3].
The post-COVID-19 period has had serious consequences; in this period, low-income
countries have lost 30% of their children’s reading comprehension and 50% of their arith-
metic performance, compared to high-income countries. Significant lags in digital connectiv-
ity, online digital skills by businesses, and digital public services [28–30] have also occurred.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 13 of 18
A significant transformation is currently taking place in the education system in
Serbia and Romania. Serbia announced several education reforms, guided by a solid
commitment to EU integration. Nevertheless, international assessments show that students’
learning outcomes in Serbia remained stable in recent years, with slight improvements
among the highest-achieving students. This indicates widening educational disparities, and
many students cannot demonstrate the essential competencies they will need to progress
in their education and later in life [69,70]. Moreover, numerous socioeconomic groups
and regions remain out of reach, which, in turn, impedes national progress. This study
introduces Serbia and Romania’s education systems. It offers details on how assessment
and evaluation strategies in these countries’ systems can propel the country towards higher
learning outcomes. However, in these countries, the teachers are open to implementing AI
technology to automate some of their teaching and evaluation activities, so as to have more
time for interactive lessons and collaborative projects. Although the adoption of AI comes
with some challenges and costs, the teachers consider that the opportunities brought by AI
have already proved their utility in the HEI environment.
SmartPLs Software version 3.0 was used to perform inferential analysis and variable
association analysis on the collected data.
In our analysis, we choose four variables: two formative ones, namely, AIopp (appli-
cations offered by AI in HEIs) and AIChallenge (difficulties associated with AI in HEIs),
and two reflective ones, namely, AIutility (HEI activities facilitated by AI) and Contri-
bution (teacher desire to implement AI in HEIs). All these variables are presented in
Figure 1 and Table 1.
We were able to analyse and extrapolate the findings of our study using many tests
offered by the SmartPls software. Table 2 shows the validation steps we took to ensure
the model’s consistency [66,67]. In terms of composite reliability (CR), Cronbach’s alpha
(CA), rho_A (all > 0.7, which is considered the bottom level of acceptability), and AVE, the
variables examined have tremendous values (>0.5—the bottom level accepted). So, the
convergent validity is proved by the AVE of the latent reflexive variables. Therefore, we
can say that all our hypotheses have been validated to varying degrees. The conclusion
of applying Cronbach’s alpha analysis was that the variables’ sub-items were appropriate
for our research (being > 0,7). Therefore, our model is statistically powerful, as the Fornell–
Larcker criterion met the heterotrait–monotrait standard (Table 3. The construct indicators
AIopp, AIutility, and AIChallenge were positively correlated. The validation data support
this. Our hypotheses H1, H2, and H3 can be accepted because the saturated model has
higher values than the estimated model (Table 4). VIF was calculated for each construct.
This study’s findings are summarised in Table 5. All VIF values are less than the critical
value (5), meaning no multicollinearity is manifested between variables.
H1: Activities performed with the AI tools are influenced by opportunitiesbrought by
the use of AI in HEIs. Regarding opportunities brought by AI, the variables with higher
loading factors and greater importance are: creating presentations and teaching materials
(0.681); selecting teaching materials in relation to the competencies and students’ interests
(0.564); creating individual learning plans for students (0.537); selecting teaching materials
with regard to the subject requirements (0.500); providing feedback on work for successful
students (0.488); objective reviews and domestic evaluations, control, for written and other
tasks (0.458); detecting plagiarism in the work of students (0.365); and detecting difficulty
in the adoption of materials by students (0.347) [71–75].
H2: Activities performed with the AI tools are influenced by difficulties associated
with AI use in HEIs. Regarding challenges related to AI implementation, the variables
with higher loading factors and greater importance are: integrating cognitive projects with
system and privacy issues is a significant challenge for AI (0.574), digital illiteracy is a big
challenge for AI (0.488), and the lack of AI technology experts is a significant challenge
for AI (0.471). These factors urge teachers to learn and acquire new transversal skills and
knowledge in the AI field, positively influencing the HEI system. Although the cost of
technology is relatively high, it seems to not be considered an obstacle (0.188). Nevertheless,
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 14 of 18
a lack of an appropriate implementation strategies for AI is manifested (−0.072), as is the
crude nature of technology (−0.03) [75–77].
H1 and H2 sustain the utility of AI in HEIs. Most of the variables that explain the
AI utility in HEIs have loading factors and very high importance (>0.7). We may give
some examples, such as that AI can improve student performance and engagement (0.860);
AI will enable the personalisation of the learning process by identifying the best way to
teach materials (audio, video, e-book), which will significantly contribute to the quality of
teaching (0.775); AI could help me search for materials and content for my lectures more
easily (0.718); AI can help me make fewer mistakes (0.713); and AI can enable the teacher
to have a better insight into student performance (0.712). Other factors with medium
importance are that AI can help keep students in the learning process by identifying
students at risk (0.652); AI can analyse students’ incorrect answers and suggest which
teaching units require additional instruction (0.520); and AI will provide an early warning
system for students’ risky behaviours (0.513) [75,78–80].
H3: Teachers’ desire to implement AI in HEIs depends on opportunities and challenges
brought by AI. The path coefficient for AIopp→Contribution (0.469) and AI Challenge→
Contribution (−0140) shows that teachers agree to implement AI in HEIs, observing the
opportunities, instead of the challenges, which are brought by AI [79,80].
6. Conclusions
The study’s goal is to figure out how artificial intelligence (AI) might help or hinder
the educational process in Romania and Serbia at present. Moreover, we looked at how
they would fit into the educational system and whether or not teachers would be willing to
use them.
The study aims to assess the key challenges and benefits that AI technology provides
to the educational systems in Romania and Serbia at this point in their development. In
our research, we used four variables: two formative ones, AIopp (AI applications in HEIs)
and AIChallenge (AI challenges in HEIs), and two reflective ones, AIutility (AI activities
in HEIs) and Contribution (teacher desire to implement AI in HEIs). Figure 1 and Table 1
show all of these characteristics.
We were able to analyse and generalise our study’s findings. We may state that all
of our theories have been validated to differing degrees: AIChallenge, AIopp, AIutility,
and AIChallenge positively correlated to the construct indicators. The validation data
support this. Because the saturated model has greater values than the estimated model, our
hypotheses H1, H2, and H3 may be accepted. According to our findings, actions performed
using AI tools are impacted by applications brought about by the usage of AI in HEIs. In
terms of AI opportunities, the variables with higher loading factors and greater importance
are creating presentations and teaching materials, selecting teaching material in relation
to competencies and student interests, creating individual learning plans for students,
selecting teaching materials with regard to subject requirements, providing feedback on
work for successful students, objective reviews and domestic evaluations, and control.
We discovered that AI tool actions are impacted by the challenges connected with
AI adoption at HEIs. Concerning AI implementation problems, the variables with more
prominent loading factors and relevance include integrating cognitive initiatives with
system and privacy problems, which is a fundamental barrier for AI, as is digital illiteracy.
In addition, a fundamental barrier to AI is a scarcity of AI technology expertise. These
elements appear to encourage professors to study and gain new cross-disciplinary skills
and knowledge in AI, favourably affecting the HEI system. Although the technology is
relatively expensive, this does not appear to be an impediment. However, a lack of a good
AI deployment plan is evident, as is the rudimentary nature of technology [75–77].
H1 and H2 support the use of AI in HEIs. The majority of the variables that explain the
AI utility in HEIs have very high loading factors and significance. We can give examples,
such as that AI can improve student performance and engagement; AI will enable the
personalisation of the learning process by identifying the best way to teach materials
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 15 of 18
(audio, video, e-book), which will significantly contribute to the quality of teaching; AI
could help me search for materials and content for my lectures more easily; AI can help
me make fewer mistakes; and AI can provide the teacher with a better understanding
of students’ performance. Other factors of moderate importance include AI’s ability
to keep students engaged in the learning process by identifying students at risk, AI’s
ability to analyse students’ incorrect answers and recommend which teaching units require
additional instruction, and AI’s ability to provide an early warning system for students’
risky behaviours [75,78–80].
Our findings show that teachers’ motivation to use AI in HEIs depends on the possi-
bilities and problems presented by AI. Instructors agree to deploy AI in HEIs after viewing
the opportunities, rather than the challenges, presented by AI [79–81].
7. Contributions to the Paper, Limitations, and Future Research Directions
Every study, including this one, has limitations. The limitations of this research stem
from its social desirability and unanswered questions. Furthermore, future research should
develop concrete proposals for the Serbian and Romanian educational systems. By devel-
oping potential future steps and obtaining directions and guidance for implementing new
technologies in HEI, resolving potential issues in the implementation and acceptance of
these technologies, great benefits will be maintained for those institutions. Digital tech-
nologies offer a wide range of possibilities and means to support education transformation,
necessitating a holistic view of technology-based education, the required changes, and
an understanding of its effects. This article will make unique contributions to the body
of knowledge, and future theoretical and managerial implications are expected in case of
replication of this research and others.
Author Contributions: Conceptualisation, R.B.-M.-T, ., M.P.I. and C.L. (Costin Lianu).; methodology,
R.B.-M.-T, ., S.C.D.G. and M.P.I.; software, R.B.-M.-T, . and V.K.; validation, C.L. (Costin Lianu), D.P.,
V.K. and M.P.I.; formal analysis, R.B.-M.-T, ., S.C.D.G. and D.P.; investigation, C.L. (Cosmin Lianu),
S.C.D.G., V.K. and M.P.I.; resources, M.P.I., S.C.D.G. and C.L. (Cosmin Lianu); data curation, D.P.,
C.L. (Cosmin Lianu) and S.C.D.G.; writing—original draft preparation, R.B.-M.-T, ., D.P., C.L. (Costin
Lianu), V.K. and M.P.I.; writing—review and editing, R.B.-M.-T, ., D.P., C.L. (Cosmin Lianu), V.K.
and S.C.D.G.; visualisation, M.P.I., C.L. (Cosmin Lianu) and D.P.; supervision, R.B.-M.-T, .; project
administration, S.C.D.G., V.K., C.L. (Costin Lianu) and D.P. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript and have equal contributions.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Ethical review and approval were waived for this study. The
survey was anonymous, and the participants gave consent to use their answers for research.
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: The analysis was conducted for the project’s needs ADAPT to Hybrid: Adapting
HE to Modernisation through a Strategic Change of Teacher and Governance mindset under the
Erasmus + program.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. PISA. OECD Country Note Serbia. 2019. Available online: https://www.oecd.org/pisa/publications/PISA2018_CN_SRB.pdf
(accessed on 5 November 2021).
2. IDI1 International Development Institute. eQuality, Equity and Inclusion in Education: Post-Pandemic Response. 2021. Available
online: http://idiworldwide.net (accessed on 10 January 2022).
3. IDI2 International Development Institute. Leadership Program for Education Authorities (LPEA)—Improving Learning Outcomes
AT the School Level Post-Pandemic. 2021. Available online: http://idiworldwide.net (accessed on 10 January 2022).
4. United Nations. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Available online: http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/ (accessed on
30 November 2021).
https://www.oecd.org/pisa/publications/PISA2018_CN_SRB.pdf
http://idiworldwide.net
http://idiworldwide.net
http://www.un.org/millenniumgoals/
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 16 of 18
5. UNESCO. Roadmap for Implementing the Global Action Programme on Education for Sustainable Development; UNESCO: Paris, France,
2014. Available online: https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000230514 (accessed on 5 September 2020).
6. Li, Y.; Nishimura, N.; Yagami, H.; Park, H.-S. An Empirical Study on Online Learners’ Continuance Intentions in China.
Sustainability 2021, 13, 889. [CrossRef]
7. DESI. Monitoring the Digital Economy and Electronic Communications Services in the Western Balkans and Turkey. European
Commission. Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union. 2019. Available online: https://www.rcc.int/files/user/
docs/3%20-%20DESI%202019.pdf (accessed on 10 December 2021).
8. Isaac, O.; Aldholay, A.; Abdullah, Z.; Ramayah, T. Online learning usage within Yemeni higher education: The role of compatibility
and task-technology fit as mediating variables in the IS success model. Comput. Educ. 2019, 136, 113–129. [CrossRef]
9. Ramírez-Montoya, M.; Andrade-Vargas, L.; Rivera-Rogel, D.; Portuguez-Castro, M. Trends for the Future of Education Programs
for Professional Development. Sustainability 2021, 13, 7244. [CrossRef]
10. Erasmus+ Call, KA2, Strategic Partnerships in the Field of Education and Training. Available online: https://ec.europa.eu/
programmes/erasmus-plus/opportunities/calls_en (accessed on 15 August 2021).
11. EC1. New Skills Agenda for Europe—EU Skills Profile Tool for Third Country Nationals. Available online: https://ec.europa.eu/
social/main.jsp?catId=1412&langId=en2017 (accessed on 9 May 2021).
12. EC2. New Skills Agenda for Europe—Recommendation on Key Competences for Lifelong Learning 2018. Available online:
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2018.189.01.0001.01.ENG (accessed on 9 May 2021).
13. Zamora-Polo, F.; Sánchez-Martín, J. Teaching for a Better World. Sustainability and Sustainable Development Goals in the
Construction of a Change-Maker University. Sustainability 2019, 11, 4224. [CrossRef]
14. UNESCO. ICT Competency Framework. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization; UNESCO: Paris, France, 2018.
15. United Nations. Transforming Our world: The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 2015. Available online: http:
//www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/RES/70/1&Lang=E (accessed on 24 October 2018).
16. USAID. Final Report on the Digital Skills Studies in Serbia. Usaid Cooperation for Growth Project (Cfg). 2020. Available online:
https://saradnja.rs/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/REPORT_DIGITAL-SKILLS-STUDY.pdf (accessed on 20 February 2022).
17. OECD. Education Working Papers. Available online: https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/education/trustworthy-artificial-
intelligence-ai-in-education_a6c90fa9-en;jsessionid=mhdmIAmvjEp7tIExFa-E339G.ip-10-240-5-73 (accessed on 3 August 2021).
18. Maghnouj, S.; Salinas, D.; Kitchen, H.; Guthrie, C.; Bethell, G.; Fordham, E. OECD Reviews of Evaluation and Assessment in Education:
Serbia. Paris: OECD Reviews of Evaluation and Assessment in Education; OECD Publishing: Berlin, Germany, 2020. [CrossRef]
19. Vincent-Lancrin, S.; Van Der Vlies, R. Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Education: Promises and Challenges; OECD Education
Working Papers, No. 218; OECD Publishing: Paris, France, 2020. [CrossRef]
20. Artificial Intelligence & Global Education Report. 2019. Available online: https://www.holoniq.com/notes/2019-artificial-
intelligence-global-education-report/ (accessed on 20 February 2022).
21. WEF. Global Competitiveness Report; World Economic Forum: Geneva, Switzerland, 2019.
22. Euro Guidance. Guidance System in Serbia. 2020. Available online: https://www.euroguidance.eu/guidance-system-in-serbia
(accessed on 20 February 2022).
23. IASA. Working paper, The Demography of Skills-Adjusted Human Capital. Laxenburg. 2020. Available online: http://pure.iiasa.
ac.at/id/eprint/16477/1/WP-20-006.pdf (accessed on 20 February 2022).
24. Internet World Stats. World Internet Users Statistics and 2019 World Population Stats.2020. Available online: https://www.
internetworldstats.com/stats.htm (accessed on 24 November 2020).
25. Pérez-Navío, E.; Ocaña-Moral, M.; Martínez-Serrano, M. University Graduate Students and Digital Competence: Are Future
Secondary School Teachers Digitally Competent? Sustainability 2021, 13, 8519. [CrossRef]
26. Brey, P. Ethics of Emerging Technologies. In Methods for the Ethics of Technology; Hansson, S.O., Ed.; Rowman and Littlefield
International: Lanham, MD, USA, 2017.
27. HLEG. Ethics Guidelines for Trustworthy AI. 2019. Available online: https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/
ethics-guidelines-trustworthy-ai (accessed on 19 October 2020).
28. Bozkurt, A.; Karadeniz, A.; Baneres, D.; Guerrero-Roldán, A.; Rodríguez, M. Artificial Intelligence and Reflections from
Educational Landscape: A Review of AI Studies in Half a Century. Sustainability 2021, 13, 800. [CrossRef]
29. Wang, Y.; Hong, S.; Tai, C. China’s Efforts to Lead the Way in AI Start in Its Classrooms. Wall Street J. 2019. Available
online: https://www.wsj.com/articles/chinas-efforts-to-lead-the-way-in-ai-start-in-its-classrooms-11571958181 (accessed on 19
September 2021).
30. Ray, S.; Saeed, M. Applications of educational data mining and learning analytics tools in handling big data in higher education.
In Applications of Big Data Analytics; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2018; pp. 135–160.
31. Lai, J.W.M.; Bower, M.; De Nobile, J.; Breyer, Y. What should we evaluate when we use technology in education? J. Comput. Assist.
Learn. 2022, 38, 743–757. [CrossRef]
32. Hanson, J.; Robinson, D.; Codina, G. Supported internships as a vehicle for social inclusion. Br. J. Learn. Disabil. 2021, 49, 433–444.
[CrossRef]
33. Waters, L. Searching for wellbeing in schools: A new framework to guide the science of positive education. J. Educ. Psychol. Res.
2019, 1, 1–8.
https://unesdoc.unesco.org/ark:/48223/pf0000230514
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13020889
https://www.rcc.int/files/user/docs/3%20-%20DESI%202019.pdf
https://www.rcc.int/files/user/docs/3%20-%20DESI%202019.pdf
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2019.02.012
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13137244
https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/erasmus-plus/opportunities/calls_en
https://ec.europa.eu/programmes/erasmus-plus/opportunities/calls_en
https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1412&langId=en2017
https://ec.europa.eu/social/main.jsp?catId=1412&langId=en2017
https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/TXT/?uri=uriserv:OJ.C_.2018.189.01.0001.01.ENG
http://doi.org/10.3390/su11154224
http://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/RES/70/1&Lang=E
http://www.un.org/ga/search/view_doc.asp?symbol=A/RES/70/1&Lang=E
https://saradnja.rs/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/REPORT_DIGITAL-SKILLS-STUDY.pdf
https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/education/trustworthy-artificial-intelligence-ai-in-education_a6c90fa9-en;jsessionid=mhdmIAmvjEp7tIExFa-E339G.ip-10-240-5-73
https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/education/trustworthy-artificial-intelligence-ai-in-education_a6c90fa9-en;jsessionid=mhdmIAmvjEp7tIExFa-E339G.ip-10-240-5-73
http://doi.org/10.1787/225350d9-en
http://doi.org/10.1787/a6c90fa9-en
https://www.holoniq.com/notes/2019-artificial-intelligence-global-education-report/
https://www.holoniq.com/notes/2019-artificial-intelligence-global-education-report/
https://www.euroguidance.eu/guidance-system-in-serbia
http://pure.iiasa.ac.at/id/eprint/16477/1/WP-20-006.pdf
http://pure.iiasa.ac.at/id/eprint/16477/1/WP-20-006.pdf
https://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm
https://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13158519
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/ethics-guidelines-trustworthy-ai
https://ec.europa.eu/digital-single-market/en/news/ethics-guidelines-trustworthy-ai
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13020800
https://www.wsj.com/articles/chinas-efforts-to-lead-the-way-in-ai-start-in-its-classrooms-11571958181
http://doi.org/10.1111/jcal.12645
http://doi.org/10.1111/bld.12428
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 17 of 18
34. Saini, R.; Mussbacher, G.; Guo, J.L.; Kienzle, J. Teaching Modelling Literacy: An Artificial Intelligence Approach. In Proceedings of
the ACM/IEEE 22ND International Conference on Model Driven Engineering Languages and Systems Companion (MODELS-C
2019), Munich, Germany, 15–20 September 2019; pp. 714–719. [CrossRef]
35. Senior, J.; Gyarmathy, E. AI and Developing Human Intelligence Future Learning and Educational Innovation; Routledge: New York,
NY, USA, 2021.
36. Market insider. Global Education Technology Market to Reach $341B by 2025. Available online: https://markets.businessinsider.com/
news/stocks/global-education-technology-market-to-reach-341b-by-2025-1027892295 (accessed on 3 August 2021).
37. Ranković, M.; Dedić, V.; Jovanović, M.; Petrović, D.; Ilić, M.P. Escape rooms in virtual reality, the concept and application in
electronic business doing. Indep. J. Manag. Prod. 2020, 11, 1247–1261. [CrossRef]
38. Nikimaleki, M.; Rahimi, M. Effects of a collaborative AR -enhanced learning environment on learning gains and technology
implementation beliefs: Evidence from a graduate teacher training course. J. Comput. Assist. Learn. 2022, 38, 758–769. [CrossRef]
39. Dieck, T.C.; Jung, T. Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality, The Power of AR and VR for Business; Springer Nature: Cham,
Switzerland, 2019.
40. UNDP—United Nations Development Programme—Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Available online: https://www.
undp.org/sustainable-development-goals (accessed on 10 December 2021).
41. Risien, J. Curators and sojourners in learning networks: Practices for transformation. Eval. Program Plan. 2019, 73, 71–79.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
42. Britt, B.C. From cooperation to competition: An interaction-based contingency theory of communities of practice. J. Knowl. Manag.
2021, 25, 1594–1618. [CrossRef]
43. Ilić, M.P.; Păun, D.; Šević, N.P.; Hadžić, A.; Jianu, A. Needs and Performance Analysis for Changes in Higher Education and
Implementation of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, and Extended Reality. Educ. Sci. 2021, 11, 568. [CrossRef]
44. Ðord̄ević, B.; Ivanović-Ðukić, M.; Lepojević, V.; Milanović, S. Job satisfaction and organizational citizenship behaviour of
employees in companies in the Republic of Serbia. Strat. Manag. 2021, 26, 61–71. [CrossRef]
45. Glavan, I.R. A Framework for Integrating ICT in Romania’s Creative Economy, VISION 2025: Education Excellence and
Management of Innovations through Sustainable Economic Competitive Advantage. In Proceedings of the 34th International-
Business-Information-Management-Association (IBIMA) Conference, Madrid, Spain, 13–14 November 2019; pp. 11281–11290.
46. Herman, E. The Influence of ICT Sector on the Romanian Labour Market in the European Context. Procedia Manuf. 2020, 46,
344–351. [CrossRef]
47. Fan, P.; Urs, N.; Hamlin, R.E. Rising innovative city-regions in a transitional economy: A case study of ICT industry in Cluj-Napoca,
Romania. Technol. Soc. 2019, 58, 101139. [CrossRef]
48. Darbi, W.P.K.; Knott, P. Strategising practices in an informal economy setting: A case of strategic networking. Eur. Manag. J. 2016,
34, 400–413. [CrossRef]
49. Silaeva, A.A.; Panova, A.G.; Evreeva, O.A.; Lobazova, O.F.; Azmetova, R. Designing a Distance Learning Process: The Use of
Cloud Services for Peer-to-Peer Interaction. Rev. Incl. 2020, 7, 13–525.
50. Ye, D.; Pennisi, S. Analysing interactions in online discussions through social network analysis. J. Comput. Assist. Learn. 2022, 38,
784–796. [CrossRef]
51. Lanke, P.; Nath, P. Job switching and communities of practice: Mapping facilitators and dampeners to life cycle. VINE J. Inf.
Knowl. Manag. Syst. 2021. [CrossRef]
52. Bittencourt, B.A.; Galuk, M.B.; Daniel, V.M.; Zen, A.C. Cluster Innovation Capability: A Systemic Review. Int. J. Innov. 2019, 7,
26–44. [CrossRef]
53. McPhillips, M. Innovation by proxy—clusters as ecosystems facilitating open innovation. J. Entrep. Manag. Innov. 2020, 16,
101–128. [CrossRef]
54. Chandrashekar, D.; Subrahmanya, M.H.B. Exploring the factors of cluster linkages that influence innovation performance of
firms in a cluster. Econ. Innov. New Technol. 2019, 28, 1–22. [CrossRef]
55. Hnatenko, I.; Kuksa, I.; Shtuler, I.; Orlova-Kurilova, O.; Rubezhanska, V. Innovation Cluster as a Mechanism for Ensuring the
Enterprises Interaction in the Innovation Sphere. Manag. Theory Stud. Rural Bus. Infrastruct. Dev. 2020, 41, 487–500. [CrossRef]
56. Barasheva, E.; Zedgenizova, I. Interaction of Innovation Clusters, Science and Education. In Social and Cultural Transformations in
the Context of Modern Globalism. Proceedings of the Social and Cultural Transformations in the Context of Modern Globalism (SCTCMG
2019), Moscow, Russia, 1–3 November 2019; Russian Academy of Sciences, Groznyi: Moscow, Russia, 2019; Volume 58, pp. 869–874.
[CrossRef]
57. Rizzo, D.M.; Lichtveld, M.; Mazet, J.A.K.; Togami, E.; Miller, S.A. Plant health and its effects on food safety and security in a One
Health framework: Four case studies. One Heal. Outlook 2021, 3, 6. [CrossRef]
58. Shariff, M. Food safety: A linchpin of One Health. Rev. Sci. Tech. OIE 2019, 38, 123–133. [CrossRef]
59. Sinclair, J. Importance of a One Health approach in advancing global health security and the Sustainable Development Goals. Rev.
Sci. Tech. OIE 2019, 38, 145–154. [CrossRef]
60. USH Pro Business is a Specialised Center for Activities Dedicated to the Entrepreneurial Environment, Being Designed to Support
Companies and Provide Solutions to Support Competitiveness in All Life Cycles of the Enterprise. USH, Pro Business. 2021.
Available online: https://ushprobusiness.ro/en/home/ (accessed on 20 February 2022).
http://doi.org/10.1109/MODELS-C.2019.00108
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/global-education-technology-market-to-reach-341b-by-2025-1027892295
https://markets.businessinsider.com/news/stocks/global-education-technology-market-to-reach-341b-by-2025-1027892295
http://doi.org/10.14807/ijmp.v11i4.1117
http://doi.org/10.1111/jcal.12646
https://www.undp.org/sustainable-development-goals
https://www.undp.org/sustainable-development-goals
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2018.12.001
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30537595
http://doi.org/10.1108/JKM-05-2020-0386
http://doi.org/10.3390/educsci11100568
http://doi.org/10.5937/StraMan2103061D
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.promfg.2020.03.050
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2019.05.003
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2015.12.009
http://doi.org/10.1111/jcal.12648
http://doi.org/10.1108/VJIKMS-09-2020-0167
http://doi.org/10.5585/iji.v7i1.157
http://doi.org/10.7341/20201634
http://doi.org/10.1080/10438599.2017.1384102
http://doi.org/10.15544/mts.2019.39
http://doi.org/10.15405/epsbs.2019.03.02.100
http://doi.org/10.1186/s42522-021-00038-7
http://doi.org/10.20506/rst.38.1.2947
http://doi.org/10.20506/rst.38.1.2949
https://ushprobusiness.ro/en/home/
Sustainability 2022, 14, 5842 18 of 18
61. Ropero, R.; Maldonado, A.; Uusitalo, L.; Salmerón, A.; Rumí, R.; Aguilera, P. A Soft Clustering Approach to Detect Socio-Ecological
Landscape Boundaries Using Bayesian Networks. Agronomy 2021, 11, 740. [CrossRef]
62. Ganz, N.; Lecon, C. Opportunities and challanges for XR techniques in Higher Education. In Proceedings of the 12th International
Conference on Education and New Learning Technologies, Online Conference, 6–7 July 2020; pp. 481–490. Available online:
https://library.iated.org/view/GANZ2020OPP (accessed on 3 August 2021). [CrossRef]
63. Yale University. Extended Reality in Higher Education: An Agenda for Action. 2020. Available online: https://blendedreality.
yale.edu/2020/06/05/extended-reality-in-higher-education-an-agenda-for-action/ (accessed on 3 August 2021).
64. University of Waterloo, Centre for Extended Learning Open Resource Repository. Extended Reality (XR). Available online: https:
//contensis.uwaterloo.ca/sites/open/resources/CEL-ORR/toc/modules/extended-reality.aspx (accessed on 3 August 2021).
65. Vinzi, V.E.; Chin, W.W.; Henseler, J.; Wang, H. Handbook of Partial Least Squares. In Handbook of Partial Least Squares; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2010.
66. Hair, J.F.; Hult, G.T.M.; Ringle, C.M.; Sarstedt, M. A Primer on Partial Least Squares Structural Equation Modeling (PLS-SEM), 3rd ed.;
Sage: Thousand Oaks, CA, USA, 2022.
67. Henseler, J.; Dijkstra, T.K.; Sarstedt, M.; Ringle, C.M.; Diamantopoulos, A.; Straub, D.W.; Ketchen, D.J.; Hair, J.F.; Hult, G.T.M.;
Calantone, R.J. Common Beliefs and Reality about Partial Least Squares: Comments on Rönkkö & Evermann. Organ. Res. Methods
2014, 17, 182–209.
68. Hooper, D.; Coughlan, J.; Mullen, M.R. Structural Equation Modelling: Guidelines for Determining Model Fit. Electron. J. Bus.
Res. Methods 2008, 6, 53–60.
69. Popa, D.; Mîndrescu, V.; Iconomescu, T.-M.; Talaghir, L.-G. Mindfulness and Self-Regulation Strategies Predict Performance of
Romanian Handball Players. Sustainability 2020, 12, 3667. [CrossRef]
70. Uyar, Y.; Gentile, A.; Uyar, H.; Erdeveciler, Ö.; Sunay, H.; Mîndrescu, V.; Mujkic, D.; Bianco, A. Competition, Gender Equality, and
Doping in Sports in the Red Queen Effect Perspective. Sustainability 2022, 14, 2490. [CrossRef]
71. Bucea-Manea-T, oniş, R.; Bucea-Manea-T, oniş, R.; Simion, V.E.; Ilic, D.; Braicu, C.; Manea, N. Sustainability in Higher Education:
The Relationship between Work–Life Balance and XR E-Learning Facilities. Sustainability 2020, 12, 5872. [CrossRef]
72. Brudermann, T.; Aschemann, R.; Füllsack, M.; Posch, A. Education for Sustainable Development 4.0: Lessons Learned from the
University of Graz, Austria. Sustainability 2019, 11, 2347. [CrossRef]
73. Cabero-Almenara, J.; Barroso-Osuna, J.; Llorente-Cejudo, C.; del Mar Fernández Martínez, M. Educational Uses of Augmented
Reality (AR): Experiences in Educational Science. Sustainability 2019, 11, 4990. [CrossRef]
74. Kantsedal, N.; Ponomarenko, O.; Dorohan’-Pisarenko, L.; Liaska, O. The methods of using interactive technologies during
teaching foundations of scientific research at higher educational establishments. Indep. J. Manag. Prod. 2019, 10, 778–797.
[CrossRef]
75. Lianu, C.; Radulescu, I.G.; Gudei, S.C.D.; Lianu, C.; Mindrescu, V. Cohesion Forces Determinants in Cluster Development:
A Study Case for Romania. Sustainability 2022, 14, 3359. [CrossRef]
76. Alonso, R.S.; Prieto, J.; García, Ó.; Corchado, J.M. Collaborative learning via social computing. Front. Inf. Technol. Electron. Eng.
2019, 20, 265–282. [CrossRef]
77. Mahmud, S.N.D.; Husnin, H.; Soh, T.M.T. Teaching Presence in Online Gamified Education for Sustainability Learning. Sustain-
ability 2020, 12, 3801. [CrossRef]
78. Marujo, H.; Casais, M. Educating for Public Happiness and Global Peace: Contributions from a Portuguese UNESCO Chair
towards the Sustainable Development Goals. Sustainability 2021, 13, 9418. [CrossRef]
79. Kuleto, V.; Ilić, M.; Dumangiu, M.; Ranković, M.; Martins, O.M.D.; Păun, D.; Mihoreanu, L. Exploring Opportunities and
Challenges of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Higher Education Institutions. Sustainability 2021, 13, 10424.
[CrossRef]
80. Kuleto, V.; Ilić P., M.; Stanescu, M.; Ranković, M.; Šević, N.P.; Păun, D.; Teodorescu, S. Extended Reality in Higher Education, a
Responsible Innovation Approach for Generation Y and Generation Z. Sustainability 2021, 13, 11814. [CrossRef]
81. Kuleto, V.; Ilić, M.; Dedić, V.; Raketić, K. Application of Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning in Higher Education,
Available Platforms and Examining Students’ Awareness. EdTech J. 2021, 1, 24–28. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/agronomy11040740
https://library.iated.org/view/GANZ2020OPP
http://doi.org/10.21125/edulearn.2020.0207
https://blendedreality.yale.edu/2020/06/05/extended-reality-in-higher-education-an-agenda-for-action/
https://blendedreality.yale.edu/2020/06/05/extended-reality-in-higher-education-an-agenda-for-action/
https://contensis.uwaterloo.ca/sites/open/resources/CEL-ORR/toc/modules/extended-reality.aspx
https://contensis.uwaterloo.ca/sites/open/resources/CEL-ORR/toc/modules/extended-reality.aspx
http://doi.org/10.3390/su12093667
http://doi.org/10.3390/su14052490
http://doi.org/10.3390/su12145872
http://doi.org/10.3390/su11082347
http://doi.org/10.3390/su11184990
http://doi.org/10.14807/ijmp.v10i7.917
http://doi.org/10.3390/su14063359
http://doi.org/10.1631/FITEE.1700840
http://doi.org/10.3390/su12093801
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13169418
http://doi.org/10.3390/su131810424
http://doi.org/10.3390/su132111814
http://doi.org/10.18485/edtech.2021.1.1.2
	Introduction 
	Theoretical Background 
	HE Objectives and Information and Data Literacy 
	AI, Backgrounds 
	The Difficulties and Barriers to Providing Services in HEI 
	SWOT Analysis 
	Methodology 
	Research Aim and Survey 
	Variables and Hypothesis 
	Research Results 
	Construct Reliability and Validity 
	Discriminant Validity 
	Collinearity Statistics VIF 
	Discussion 
	Conclusions 
	Contributions to the Paper, Limitations, and Future Research Directions 
	References