Demo Abstract: An Interoperable Avatar Framework Across Multiple Games and Blockchains
Demo Abstract: An Interoperable Avatar Framework
Across Multiple Games and Blockchains
Wei Cai1 and Xiao Wu2
1School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China
2White Matrix Inc., Nanjing, China
Email: caiwei@cuhk.edu.cn, danjinxiangsi@gmail.com
Abstract—Blockchain game is the most important category of
decentralized applications. However, to leverage the feature of
blockchain in state-of-the-art game mechanism design is still a
challenge for developers and designers. In this work, we propose
an interoperable blockchain gaming framework across multiple
games and chains, to facilitate next-generation blockchain games.
Two demo games are implemented to validate our framework.
Index Terms—blockchain, game, software, framework
I. INTRODUCTION
In addition to a decentralized ledger [1], more and more
researchers realize the potential of blockchain [2] can be
extended to other application domains, thanks to the smart
contract [3] concept introduced by Ethereum platform [4]. In
fact, the decentralized application [5] (dApp) become the hope
of true value for blockchain nowadays. However, there is still a
lack of dApps, despite the notorious initial coin offering (ICO)
projects. The digital game, in our opinion, will become a killer
application for the blockchain. It perfectly fits the nature of
the virtual currency ecosystem to fulfill the ultimate dream
of many game players: the items they owned in the virtual
world are non-fungible, exchangeable, and inheritable. The
major benefits blockchain has brought to the game industry
can be summarized as transparency of game rules, the liquidity
of game assets, efficient way of new player acquisition, and
highly motivated user-generated content.
However, the state-of-the-art blockchain games are still in
their preliminary stages from the perspective of entertain-
ment. How to leverage the feature of blockchain in-game
mechanism design is still a challenge for developers and
designers. First, the interoperability among different games
is yet to be implemented. For example, the CryptoCuddles1
leverages the cats produced from CryptoKitiies to battle. A
similar concept can be found in PirateConquest2 who reuse
the players’ assets in CryptoKitties and CryptoCountries.
However, existing attempts only reuse the existing tokens
available in a single direction, which means that the data
modification in new games can not make effects on the token
they inherit. This implies that the relationship between the new
and the existing games are principal and subordinate, rather
than equal interoperability. Second, current blockchain games
are empowered by a specific chain. Even some games support
1https://cryptocuddles.com/
2https://www.pirateconquest.com/
multiple blockchain platforms, the assets in different chains
are still isolated from each other.
In this demonstration3, we present Manis, an interoperable
blockchain gaming framework across multiple games and
chains, to facilitate next-generation blockchain games. Two
demo games are implemented to validate our framework.
II. SYSTEM DESIGN
Fig. 1. Manis Framework
Fig. 1 illustrates the proposed Manis framework, which is
consisted of two major components: Genesis package and
Voyager server. Genesis is an open source avatar consensus
package, including a uniformed interface for shared avatar set
and corresponding smart contracts in distinct blockchains. In
our design, the avatar data will be stored as variables in smart
contracts, rather than immutable tokens defined with ERC721.
This approach enables the growth of the avatar during the
game progress. The data of the avatar follows the GNU
General Public License, which allows the creators to retain
their copyright. We have implemented multiple versions of
smart contracts, including Tron, Neo, Qtum, Nas, ETH, Loom
and Mana. On the other hand, the Genesis interface provides
a simple application programming interface (API) for avatar
invocations. By leveraging the Genesis package, different
3Demo Video Available at: https://youtu.be/qsSYBbPd0Wo
2019 IEEE INFOCOM Demo
978-1-7281-1878-9/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 967
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:57:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
games can share the same avatars. From the perspective of
cross-chain data synchronization, we implement the Voyager
server, which periodically compares the Genesis data sets
among distinct blockchains and overwrites the aggregated data
back to all chains. With this approach, we are able to facilitate
a cross-chain gaming experience in an asynchronous way.
III. DEMO GAMES
In order to validate the idea proposed in Project Genesis,
we developed two blockchain games “Last Trip” and “Adam’s
Adventure”.
A. Last Trip
Fig. 2. Screenshot of Last Trip
As illustrated in Fig. 2, Last Trip is like a storybook, players
will perform different actions to trigger different events. The
actions they choose may apply negative or positive influences
on their avatars’ attributes, such as spirit, magic, etc. The play-
ers need to improve their avatars’ attributes to win the battles.
After the game is over, the player can upload his avatar to the
blockchain. Therefore, players may interact with past players
throughout the journey. With this approach, the players of
the tame will influence future adventures and contribute their
content to make Last Trip’s stories continuously increasing.
B. Adam’s Adventure
Adam’s Adventure (AA) is a multi-player Dungeons and
Dragons (D&D) novel-adventure game powered by multiple
blockchains. In this game, the players will experience three
modes: Battle of Adventure, Battle of Dark Lord, and Battle of
Blood Moon. In the Battle of Adventure mode, massive players
will create avatars to adventure in the Dungeon, conquer
demons to empower their avatars on their own. All growth
in these avatars will eventually be accumulated into Adam,
a shared character stored in the blockchain. In our current
implementations, different blockchain will create different
Adams. In the battle of Dark Lord, the player will use the
shared Adam and one random character summoned from the
Last Trip to combat the Dark Lord, the evil king created by
the system. Each 30 times Dark Lord is defeated in every
chain, the battle of Blood Moon can be triggered. The player
will use the Adam in their corresponding chain to conquer the
Adams in other chains. In this approach, the player can enjoy
the cross-chain battle among different Adams in a different
chain.
Fig. 3. Screenshot of Adam’s Adventure
C. Interactions across games and chains
After operating these two games for a period of time, the
players in the Last Trip will encounter the heroes produced
by AA, while the players in Adam’s Adventure will summon
heroes from the Last Trip and conduct cross-chain battles.
Restricted by the latency and gas fee cost from different
blockchain platforms, we adopt an asynchronous approach to
facilitate interactions across games and chains.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” White
Paper: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf, 2008.
[2] M. Nofer, P. Gomber, O. Hinz, and D. Schiereck, “Blockchain,” Business
& Information Systems Engineering, vol. 59, pp. 183–187, Jun 2017.
[3] N. Álvarez Dı́az, J. Herrera-Joancomartı́, and P. Caballero-Gil, “Smart
contracts based on blockchain for logistics management,” in Proceedings
of the 1st International Conference on Internet of Things and Machine
Learning, IML ’17, (New York, NY, USA), pp. 73:1–73:8, ACM, 2017.
[4] V. Buterin, “Ethereum white paper: a next generation
smart contract & decentralized application platform,”
https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper, 2013.
[5] W. Cai, Z. Wang, J. B. Ernst, Z. Hong, C. Feng, and V. C. M.
Leung, “Decentralized applications: The blockchain-empowered software
system,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 53019–53033, 2018.
2019 IEEE INFOCOM Demo
968
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:57:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.