Privacy Concerns and Measures in Metaverse: A Review
978-1-6654-5603-6/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE   80 
Privacy Concerns and Measures in Metaverse:         
A Review 
Yavuz CANBAY 
Department of Computer Engineering 
Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, 
Sutcu Imam University 
Kahramanmaras, Türkiye 
yavuzcanbay@ksu.edu.tr 
0000-0003-2316-7893 
 
Anıl UTKU 
Department of Computer Engineering 
Faculty of Engineering,  
Munzur University 
Tunceli, Türkiye 
anilutku@munzur.edu.tr 
0000-0002-7240-8713 
 
Pelin CANBAY 
Department of Computer Engineering 
Faculty of Engineering and Architecture, 
Sutcu Imam University 
Kahramanmaras, Türkiye 
pelincanbay@ksu.edu.tr 
0000-0002-8067-3365 
 
Abstract—Metaverse is the new buzzword in today’s digital 
world. It is a new internet application and a new form of the 
social world that integrates new technologies such as; Artificial 
Intelligence (AI), Virtual Reality (VR), Augmented Reality 
(AR), Extended Reality (XR), Blockchain (BC), etc. The 
metaverse can be seen as a virtual world that mimics the real 
world. Most things that can be done in the real world, such as 
shopping, making new friends, attending concerts, playing 
games, and so on, can be done differently in Metaverse. While a 
person who represents himself with his presence in the real 
world realizes this representation in the digital world with his 
personal data. Hence, the Metaverse exploits personal data to 
create and maintain this virtual world. At this point, privacy 
concerns of users in Metaverse occur, and Metaverse Service 
Providers (MSP) should take these concerns into account. This 
paper focuses on privacy concerns in Metaverse, presents some 
measures in order to minimize these concerns, and provides a 
comprehensive list of personal data collected and processed in 
Metaverse.  
Keywords—Metaverse, privacy concerns, personal data 
protection 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Metaverse is a new digital world combining technology, 
social life, and hyper spatiotemporality. It enables people to 
have an immersive experience based on AI, AR, VR, BC, etc. 
As a parallel world to the real world, Metaverse seamlessly 
integrates the physical world with the virtual world. It allows 
digital copies of persons to carry out rich activities such as 
making friends, rearing virtual pets, designing virtual fashion 
items, buying virtual estate, attending concerts, creating and 
selling digital art, etc [1]. 
Avatar is the 3d digital representation of a real person in 
the Metaverse. It can be said that what you have in the real 
world is what you will have in the Metaverse, for instance, 
mother, father, brother, sister, car, pet, properties, skills, etc. 
But, the most crucial having can be said that your personal 
data, such as gender, sexuality, name, age, height, religious 
belief, health data, and more. In addition to those, think that 
your avatar has a heartbeat, gender, skin color, etc. 
Furthermore, it will have your behaviors, emotions, reactions, 
and more. Although your avatar is a non-living asset, it has 
your own data, which was collected from you via wearable 
devices [2, 3].  
Data privacy is the self-control of any person over 
determining to share his data with whom, for what purposes, 
and at which level. Privacy is a big concern for people. 
Because disclosure of privacy may cause people to be exposed 
to discrimination, loss of reputation, be excluded from society 
and be exposed to unfair treatment. Hence, personal data 
privacy should be crucial for technology developers and 
suppliers [4].  
In this study, we aimed to pay attention that privacy in 
Metaverse is a big problem and a growing concern in the near 
future. When Metaverse becomes widespread, more personal 
data will feed the MSP, and then maybe the technology 
companies will collect the most amount of personal data ever. 
Note that through these data, some groups or maybe marginal 
MSP can easily direct people according to an opinion or an 
idea. In addition, we briefed some measures for privacy 
concerns available in the literature. Then, we provided a 
comprehensive list of personal data collected and processed in 
Metaverse.   
This paper is organized as follows. In Section II, the 
definition, ecosystem, technology, and personal data used in 
Metaverse are given. Section III presents personal data 
privacy. Section IV includes some related works considering 
privacy concerns in Metaverse. Section V presents some 
measures in order to minimize privacy concerns in Metaverse, 
and finally, Section VI concludes the study.  
II. METAVERSE 
A. Definition and Ecosystem 
Metaverse is a combination of the words meta and verse, 
meaning a new field created by the convergence of VR and 
AR [5]. It refers to a realm beyond the physical world, in other 
words, beyond the physical world or the universe. Metaverse 
is a network where users can interact with each other and with 
digital objects through their virtual representations of avatars 
[6]. Metaverse can be thought of as a combination of virtual 
reality, multiplayer online gaming, and the web. 
Metaverse provides a three-dimensional virtual world 
experience to users [7]. This three-dimensional virtual world 
allows users to interact with tools such as VR glasses and AR 
glasses [8]. Metaverse connects users through avatars in the 
virtual universe. In order for users to perceive the virtual 
universe physically, senses such as sight, hearing, touch, and 
even smell are tried to be simulated through interface 
technologies. Metaverse allows users to overcome their 
physical limitations as much as possible [6]. It enables users 
to communicate concretely with each other and virtual objects 
through real-time interactions. 
  Metaverse has three main aspects; presence, 
interoperability, and standardization. Presence is the feeling of 
being in a virtual space with other users, embodied by real 
20
22
 1
5t
h 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
Se
cu
rit
y 
an
d 
Cr
yp
to
gr
ap
hy
 (I
SC
TU
RK
EY
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
56
03
-6
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IS
CT
U
RK
EY
56
34
5.
20
22
.9
93
18
66
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:52:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
81 
people. Feeling embodied allows users to interact more 
comfortably. The sense of presence is carried out through 
technologies such as virtual reality glasses. Interoperability 
refers to the ability to switch between sandboxes and the same 
virtual assets, such as avatars and digital assets. 
Standardization refers to the interoperability of platforms and 
services in the Metaverse [9]. 
 According to Lee et al. [5], various technologies and an 
ecosystem are required for the interaction between the 
physical world and the Metaverse. AI, BC, computer vision, 
network infrastructures such as 5G/6G, AR, Internet of Things 
(IoT), and robotics are the technologies in which the 
Metaverse interacts in the real world [10].  
 Trust in the system, accountability, security, privacy, and 
social acceptability in the virtual world are other essential 
parts of the ecosystem which are indispensable to every 
computer system. In addition, content and avatars, which are 
elements of real existence in the virtual world, are the most 
critical components of the ecosystem [11]. 
B. Enabling Technologies 
Metaverse is a combination of physical reality, AR, and 
VR in a shared online space [6].  It is associated with VR, AI, 
AR, BC, Brain-Computer Interfaces (BCI), IoT, Mixed 
Reality (MR), Web 3.0, and Mobile Device Processors 
technologies [1].  
VR is an experience that simulates realistic situations such 
as gaming, social networking, and education. It is associated 
with the Metaverse as an experience that allows users to come 
together to communicate in the same virtual environment 
regardless of physical distance [12]. 
AI supports computers to think like humans and solve 
complex problems like humans. AI technologies will interact 
with the Metaverse in various ways. For example, AI software 
can interact with humans or each other and be programmed 
according to their purposes. AI technologies also have 
facilitated character creation with the help of Unreal Engines 
[13]. The results of the created characters having AI and acting 
intelligently can be surprising and surreal. AI automates 
software development processes enabling the creation of more 
complex characters. AI can be used to create, supervise and 
maintain smart contracts in BC technologies [14]. The usage 
areas of AI technologies in the Metaverse can be exemplified 
as avatar creation with artificial intelligence, multilingual 
accessibility, the expansion of the virtual reality world, and 
intuitive interface. 
AR refers to enriching the real world of users with 
computer-generated content. AR glasses and lenses can be 
used to enrich the real world with the help of AI technologies. 
In this way, it becomes possible to interact with both the real 
world and the virtual world [15]. 
BC technology will be a currency that is used for making 
digital transactions quickly and securely. BC was developed 
to use some options, such as cryptocurrencies. It is a 
technology that enables multiple access to data and 
verification of data in real-time. BC technology allows digital 
property ownership, digital payment, governance, 
accessibility, and interoperability in the Metaverse [16].  
BCI allows people to manipulate avatars, objects, and 
digital operations using brain signals. Using technologies such 
as Neuralink, BCI aims to acquire the senses of touch and 
smell in the Metaverse with the help of devices implanted in 
the brain [17]. 
The most common application of IoT in the Metaverse is 
to collect and provide data. The effective use of the Metaverse 
with IoT will provide significant developments in the field of 
economy. IoT enables data generated in the virtual world in 
the Metaverse to be transferred to real-world devices [1]. 
MR is created when users interact directly with the 
Metaverse in a real-world physical environment. It is a 
combination of the physical and digital worlds [18].  
Social media platforms, which have become popular 
thanks to Web 2.0, service users with dynamic infrastructure. 
Blockchain and AI concepts form the basis of Web 3.0. It is 
also associated with the Metaverse universe, which has 
become popular recently and was put forward to solve security 
and centralization problems today. Web 3.0, which aims to 
minimize monopoly activities with decentralized platforms, is 
very assertive in security thanks to blockchain technology 
[19]. 
In order for AR technologies to be accessible to everyone, 
high-speed microprocessors must be integrated into devices. 
With this way, improvements in subjects such as refresh rate, 
delay time, realistic graphics, and transferred image speed will 
be achieved [20]. 
C. Personal Data in Metaverse 
Social media platforms, which entered our lives with Web 
2.0, allow users to interact with other users by offering profiles 
they can manage. But on the backside, users' metadata is also 
stored by social media platforms. Much metadata is stored in 
the background, including family members, colleagues, 
locations visited, and future plans that users do not share 
directly [21]. 
Social media applications access such information with 
the help of location services, cameras, contact lists, reminders, 
and microphones on mobile devices [22]. Privacy violation of 
personal biometric data such as face recognition information, 
retina information, and fingerprint obtained in Metaverse is 
handled in some studies [23]. 
It is known that MSP is able to collect data such as user 
interactions through wearable technologies, microphones, 
cameras, heart, and respiratory monitors for advertising and 
user tracking purposes. They use these data to develop their 
products and services according to user expectations [24]. As 
the digital traces of users in Metaverse increase, it is predicted 
that users will become more vulnerable to cyber-attacks.  
In the Metaverse, data will be generated when users 
personalize their avatars in the virtual universe or contact 
other avatars to socialize [25]. With the increase in digital user 
data in the Metaverse, it is predicted that companies will even 
process data such as pulse, heartbeat, and brain waves in order 
to provide users with a more attractive experience. When such 
data is leaked or misused, it is likely that the user is faced with 
a situation that puts their identity and real-world life at risk. 
III. PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY 
Any data belonging to a person and directly or indirectly 
identifying the data owner can be accepted as personal data. 
For instance, name, surname, age, height, weight, gender, 
social security number, passport number, income, and health 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:52:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
82 
are some of the personal data. In [26, 27], personal data is 
classified as; 
• general personal data; name, surname, social security 
number, IP address, email address, passport number, 
race, age, gender, location data, finance, phone 
number, date of birth, professional, education 
information, and so on.     
• special personal data; racial or ethnic origin, political 
opinions, religious beliefs, trade union membership, 
genetic data, biometric data, health data, and sexual 
orientation or activity. 
While general personal data protection may be done with 
regular measures, special personal data requires a high level 
of protection.  Fig. 1 shows personal data collected and 
processed in Metaverse.  
IV. PRIVACY CONCERNS IN METAVERSE 
While Metaverse is a personal data-driven world, privacy-
focused attacks inevitably occur.  
Yang et al. [28] emphasized that personal data on 
Metaverse, such as digital assets, the identity of virtual items, 
and cryptocurrency spending records should be protected 
against disclosure attacks. Guaranteeing the privacy of 
Metaverse users is a challenging problem, and some solutions 
should be provided.  
Nguyen et al. [29] reported that interactions between users 
and Metaverse could be leaked. Hence, the interaction 
between service providers and users can be done by 
employing BC technology, which provides users privacy and 
anonymity.  
Wang et al. [2] discussed the privacy aspects of the 
Metaverse. They emphasized that Metaverse systems require 
personal data-intensive functionalities. Hence, it performs a 
pervasive data collection method. In order to interact with the 
avatar, user profiling activities collect data at the most 
granular level, such as facial expressions, eye movements, iris 
movements, hand movements, speeches, biometrics, and brain 
wave patterns. They claim that with the help of XR and 
human-computer interaction (HCI), MSP will enable the 
collection of data about physical movements, user attributes, 
and user tracking. They also referred that in the virtual office 
meetings, interactions between employees and biometric data 
of employees, such as voices, can be monitored and analyzed 
by the managers. In addition, they emphasized that personal 
data collected from some wearable devices are moved from 
device to platform via wireless or wired communication. In 
this transformation process, though the communication is 
encrypted, an attacker may perform an eavesdropping attack 
and obtain some sensitive information.  The authors also 
expressed that an avatar is created using data collected from 
human bodies. These data are transferred to a central platform 
in order to train personalized avatar appearances that may 
contradict regulations such as General Data Protection Rule 
(GDPR). They also declared that private data stored in the 
cloud and edge storage might be disclosed by hacking. Some 
privacy risks about unauthorized data access, misuse of user 
data, and digital footprints are provided in detail. Lastly, it is 
worth underlining that data of wearable devices enabling MSP 
to collect some information to infer behaviors of users by 
using their eye movements, hand gestures, facial expressions, 
and so on will be a primary risk for users. Because MSP may 
model your sense of who you are and how you talk, behave, 
feel and express yourself.  
Zhao et al. [30] analyzed privacy concerns in Metaverse. 
User information such as related physiological, physical, 
biometric, and social should be protected since they are 
personal data. Communication also should be private since it 
should include sensitive data. In addition, personal privacy 
should be considered even in situations such as insulting, 
tracking, or even sexual harassment. Transactions of goods, 
such as character modeling, appearance, costumes, buildings, 
and artworks, belonging to an avatar may be disclosed. So 
these kinds of transactions should also be protected.     
Gadekallu et al. [16] expressed that privacy laws in the real 
world may not be accountable in the digital world. Hence, 
privacy laws compatible with Metaverse should be created 
with the collaboration of decision-makers and MSP.   
Fernandez and Hui [31] reported that sensors used in 
Metaverse collect a vast amount of biometric data and spatial 
data, including surroundings. Sensors in XR technologies 
commonly scan and monitor users’ surroundings. Head-
mounted displays can collect biometric data such as head 
movement and eye tracking data. Authors declared that users’ 
habits, choices, and activities in Metaverse are another 
valuable piece of data for service providers. Because users’ 
moods can be obtained via these data, hence privacy of them 
should be provided.  
Nair et al. [32] presented how an adversary can obtain any 
personal data from Metaverse. They developed a VR 
application and used some data sources such as geospatial 
telemetry, device specifications, network, and behavioral 
observations. In the experimental studies, they obtained some 
biometrics data about anthropometrics, vision, fitness, and 
reaction time with minimum error rates. In addition, 
geolocation, device specifications, demographic and acuity 
data are also obtained with high accuracy.  
Park and Kim [3] expressed that privacy in Metaverse is a 
big issue because it collects data on behavior that is more 
detailed than user conversations and internet history.  
Pietro and Cresci [33] noted that everything and everyone 
would be the product of Metaverse. The platform collects lots 
of personal data such as body movements, physiological 
responses, brainwaves, and virtual interactions with the 
surrounding environment. Social networking platforms are 
already collecting more sensitive data about users. The fusion 
of data collected in social networking platforms and MSP will 
give more opportunities to data holders to extract sensitive 
data about users.  Some unwanted situations could occur in the 
Metaverse, such as doxing, spying, and stalking. Additionally, 
privacy concerns about communication should be considered 
in Metaverse. If an interaction or communication between 
users is disclosed, it may harm the users. They are open issues 
for Metaverse.  
Far and Rad [34] reported that users’ activities in 
Metaverse should be private in order not to be obtained by an 
adversary. In addition, they warned users about thinking that 
their privacy may be broken by authorities and governments.    
Lee et al. [5] specified that wearable devices in Metaverse 
collect lots of personal data, including physical data, cultural 
data, economic data, habits, choices, and communications. In 
many cases, users may accept that there are always privacy 
risks while using Metaverse. Users in Metaverse can be 
exposed to extortion, continuous monitoring, or 
eavesdropping.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:52:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
83 
Fig 1. Personal data collected and processed in Metaverse 
 
 Falchuk et al. [35] noticed that digital footprints and 
digital breadcrumbs allow service providers to not only track 
people but also get more information about identity, location, 
age, shopping preferences, friends, favorite movies, credit 
card numbers, social security numbers, social security 
identity, mother’s maiden name, medical history, bank 
account information, and much more.  
In addition to those, companies are in the search of how to 
turn personal data into cash. For instance, a big social media 
platform patented its eye and face tracking technology [36]. 
All of these mentioned privacy risks are significant issues 
that MSP should take into account and minimize. 
V. PRIVACY PROTECTION MEASURES IN METAVERSE 
This chapter briefs some measures for privacy 
preservation in Metaverse provided in the literature.  
The authors of the study [37] have proposed some 
measures for corporations operating in Metaverse. Since HCI 
devices collect many personal data, including biometrics, 
users should be educated about privacy implications. In 
addition, the consent mechanism of the Metaverse should be 
clear and straightforward enough. Regulations and laws about 
data protection are not consistent around the world. For 
instance, European Union has its own GDPR, the UK has its 
version of GDPR, and Turkey has its own data protection rule. 
This inconsistency should be eliminated in Metaverse. As a 
separate territory or world, a strict data protection rule 
dedicated to Metaverse should be created. Users should be 
warned if they allow their data to be collected by the MSP for 
ads. Additionally, privacy protection and ease of use could 
cause conflict in Metaverse. But, MSP should persist on 
renewal of consent when data re-entry.  
Fernandez and Hiu [31] expressed that privacy-enhanced 
technologies (PET) should be used in Metaverse. PET 
obfuscates sensitive data from sensors before being shared 
with cloud services.  They also proposed that users should use 
second avatars to avoid leaking any sensitive data such as 
demographics, cultural and economic background. Finally, 
they suggested that users should have the opportunity to 
configure their personal spaces, such as visual access via 
privacy bubbles [31].  
Park and Kim [3] remarked that Metaverse collects 
behavioral data that is more detailed than user conversations 
and internet history. Avatar two-factor authentication and 
protection of transmitted data should be used by the service 
providers.   
Pietro and Cresci [33] emphasized that a privacy setting 
should be made available to the users so that the users can 
choose their desired level of privacy.  
Yang et al. [28] declared that Metaverse-oriented 
cryptography mechanisms are some proposals that could be 
seen as privacy protection measures.   
 Lee et al. [5] support that a solution to privacy threats is 
the use of multiple avatars and privacy copies in the 
Metaverse. The technique focuses on creating different avatars 
with different behavior and freedom according to user 
preferences. These avatars can be placed in the Metaverse to 
confuse attackers as they will not know which avatar is the 
actual user. The avatars can have different configurable 
behaviors.  
Funck et al. [35] proposed two plans to ensure privacy. The 
first plan is about the cloud of clones. This plan’s purpose is 
to obfuscate user location, activities, beliefs, desires, and/or 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:52:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
84 
intentions. In this plan, the system creates one or more avatar 
“clones” that have the same or similar appearance to the user’s 
avatar. Plan B is about creating a private copy of some part of 
the virtual world. The requested part of the Metaverse is the 
main fabric that continues to exist in parallel and unaffected 
by the actions of the user in the temporary Private Copy. This 
will give comfort about untraceability to users in private copy. 
For instance, think that a user may want a private virtual 
shopping experience. At this time, the user requests a Private 
Copy of a virtual store. This store may sell personal items for 
which the user does not want to be observed shopping.  
The measures mentioned above are some solutions that try 
to minimize privacy concerns. However, since technology is 
developing at a dizzying pace, these measures will be aged. 
Hence new measures should be proposed in order to catch the 
speed of technology. In addition, with the spread of 
technology, different types of personal data may be targeted 
by the MSP; hence new measures will always be required.  
VI. CONCLUSION 
Metaverse is a personal data-centric platform. As shown in 
Fig. 1, it collects and processes lots of personal data such as; 
biometrics, facial expressions, eye movements, iris 
movements, hand movements, speech, brain wave patterns, 
habits, choices, activities of users, behaviors, feelings, 
expressions, user conversations, internet history, body 
movements, cultural data, financial data, communications, 
location, age, shopping preferences, favorite movies, 
identities, medical data, digital assets, the identity of virtual 
items, cryptocurrency spending records, physiological data, 
physical data and much more.  
Privacy concerns should not be ignored in a personal data-
intensive platform like Metaverse. The concerns existing in 
the literature can be summarized as follows;   
• personal data on the Metaverse such as digital assets, 
the identity of virtual items, and cryptocurrency 
spending records can be disclosed by the adversaries,  
• interactions between user and Metaverse can be 
leaked, 
• users may be profiled according to their habits and 
preferences, 
• some attacks such as eavesdropping in 
communication may be performed, and in addition, 
data storage, which stores personal data, may be 
hacked, and all data may be disclosed, 
• privacy laws in the real world may not be accountable 
in the digital world, 
• behavioral data is more valuable than classical 
personal data since it defines how a person acts. 
Hence collecting such data should require more 
efforts to defeat disclosures, 
• privacy of users may be broken by authorities and 
governments,  
• the fusion of data collected in social networking and 
data contained in Metaverse may compromise user 
privacy at a higher level. Because such fusion may 
emerge unpredictable deeper information about a 
user.  
 
Some countermeasures provided in the literature for 
privacy concerns are listed below; 
• MSP should educate the users about privacy 
implications and present a clear consent mechanism, 
• an agreed regulation considering personal data 
protection in Metaverse should be created, 
• privacy-supported devices and privacy-enabled 
technology should be used in Metaverse, 
• users should have the authority of privacy 
configurations for their personal space in Metaverse, 
• two-factor authentication for avatars should be used, 
• MSP should enable users to have multiple avatars for 
privacy concerns, 
• private copies of some parts of Metaverse should be 
provided if a user request an anonymous interaction.     
 
As it can be clearly seen from the literature that privacy 
is a big concern for Metaverse platforms. While it provides 
lots of opportunities to people, by considering the motto of “if 
any product or service is free, you are the product”, a great 
number of personal data will be consumed on these platforms. 
And this situation will benefit service providers, such as 
making more money. But the important thing for the users is 
that they are modeled in Metaverse, and their real personal 
data is mostly transferred to MSP. Hence, users should 
consider this trade-off.   
REFERENCES 
[1] H. Ning et al., "A Survey on Metaverse: the State-of-the-art, 
Technologies, Applications, and Challenges," arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2111.09673, 2021. 
[2] Y. Wang et al., "A survey on metaverse: Fundamentals, security, and 
privacy," arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.02662, 2022. 
[3] S.-M. Park and Y.-G. Kim, "A Metaverse: Taxonomy, components, 
applications, and open challenges," Ieee Access, vol. 10, pp. 4209-
4251, 2022. 
[4] Y. Canbay, S. Sagiroglu, and Y. Vural, "A Mondrian-based Utility 
Optimization Model for Anonymization," International Conference on 
Computer Science and Engineering (UBMK), 2019. 
[5] L.-H. Lee et al., "All one needs to know about metaverse: A complete 
survey on technological singularity, virtual ecosystem, and research 
agenda," arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.05352, 2021. 
[6] S. Mystakidis, "Metaverse," Encyclopedia, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 486-497, 
2022. 
[7] A. Davis, J. Murphy, D. Owens, D. Khazanchi, and I. Zigurs, 
"Avatars, people, and virtual worlds: Foundations for research in 
metaverses," Journal of the Association for Information Systems, vol. 
10, no. 2, p. 1, 2009. 
[8]  S. Balakrishnan, M. S. S. Hameed, K. Venkatesan, and G. Aswin, 
"Interaction of Spatial Computing In Augmented Reality," 
International Conference on Advanced Computing and 
Communication Systems 2021, vol. 1, pp. 1900-1904.  
[9] M. E. Latoschik, F. Kern, J.-P. Stauffert, A. Bartl, M. Botsch, and J.-
L. Lugrin, "Not alone here?! scalability and user experience of 
embodied ambient crowds in distributed social virtual reality," IEEE 
transactions on visualization and computer graphics, vol. 25, no. 5, 
pp. 2134-2144, 2019. 
[10] Q.V. Pham, X.Q. Pham, T. T. Nguyen, Z. Han, and D.S. Kim, 
"Artificial Intelligence for the Metaverse: A Survey," arXiv e-prints, 
arXiv: 2202.10336, 2022. 
[11] P. A. Rauschnabel, B. J. Babin, M. C. tom Dieck, N. Krey, and T. 
Jung, "What is augmented reality marketing? Its definition, 
complexity, and future,"  vol. 142, ed: Elsevier, 2022, pp. 1140-1150. 
[12] B. Kye, N. Han, E. Kim, Y. Park, and S. Jo, "Educational applications 
of metaverse: possibilities and limitations," Journal of Educational 
Evaluation for Health Professions, vol. 18, 2021. 
[13] A. Jungherr and D. B. Schlarb, "The Extended Reach of Game Engine 
Companies: How Companies Like Epic Games and Unity 
Technologies Provide Platforms for Extended Reality Applications 
and the Metaverse," Social Media+ Society, vol 8, no 2, 2022. 
[14] B. D. Deebak and A.-T. Fadi, "Privacy-preserving in smart contracts 
using blockchain and artificial intelligence for cyber risk 
measurements," Journal of Information Security and Applications, 
vol. 58, 2021. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:52:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
85 
[15] P. A. Rauschnabel, "Virtually enhancing the real world with 
holograms: An exploration of expected gratifications of using 
augmented reality smart glasses," Psychology & Marketing, vol. 35, 
no. 8, pp. 557-572, 2018. 
[16] T. R. Gadekallu et al., "Blockchain for the Metaverse: A Review," 
arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.09738, 2022. 
[17] G. Boddington, "The Internet of Bodies—alive, connected and 
collective: the virtual physical future of our bodies and our senses," AI 
& society, 2021. 
[18]  M. Speicher, B. D. Hall, and M. Nebeling, "What is mixed reality?," 
CHI conference on human factors in computing systems, 2019, pp. 1-
15.  
[19] K. Nath, "Evolution of the Internet from Web 1.0 to Metaverse: The 
Good, The Bad and The Ugly," TechRxiv, 2022. 
[20] M. Buhr, T. Pfeiffer, D. Reiners, C. Cruz-Neira, and B. Jung, "Real-
Time Aspects of VR Systems," in Virtual and Augmented Reality 
(VR/AR): Springer, 2022, pp. 245-289. 
[21] A. Puura, S. Silm, and A. Masso, "Identifying relationships between 
personal social networks and spatial mobility: A study using 
smartphone tracing and related surveys," Social Networks, vol. 68, pp. 
306-317, 2022. 
[22]  C. W. Munyendo, Y. Acar, and A. J. Aviv, "“Desperate Times Call 
for Desperate Measures”: User Concerns with Mobile Loan Apps in 
Kenya," Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), Computer Society, 
pp. 1521-1521.  
[23] C. Jain, "Virtual Fitting Rooms: A Review of Underlying Artificial 
Intelligence Technologies, Current Developments, and the Biometric 
Privacy Laws in the US, EU and India," Current Developments, and 
the Biometric Privacy Laws in the US, EU and India, 2022. 
[24] U. Lee et al., "Toward Data-Driven Digital Therapeutics Analytics: 
Literature Review and Research Directions," arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2205.01851, 2022. 
[25] S. Hollensen, P. Kotler, and M. O. Opresnik, "Metaverse–the new 
marketing universe," Journal of Business Strategy, 2022. 
[26] P. Kononow. "What is Personal Data in GDPR." 
https://dataedo.com/blog/what-is-personal-data-under-gdpr. 
[27] "GDPR - User-Friendly Guide to General Data Protection 
Regulation." https://www.gdpreu.org/#special-category-data 
[28] Q. Yang, Y. Zhao, H. Huang, Z. Xiong, J. Kang, and Z. Zheng, 
"Fusing blockchain and AI with metaverse: A survey," IEEE Open 
Journal of the Computer Society, 2022. 
[29] C. T. Nguyen, D. T. Hoang, D. N. Nguyen, and E. Dutkiewicz, 
"Metachain: A novel blockchain-based framework for metaverse 
applications," arXiv preprint arXiv:2201.00759, 2021. 
[30] R. Zhao, Y. Zhang, Y. Zhu, R. Lan, and Z. Hua, "Metaverse: Security 
and Privacy Concerns," arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.03854, 2022. 
[31] C. B. Fernandez and P. Hui, "Life, the Metaverse and Everything: An 
Overview of Privacy, Ethics, and Governance in Metaverse," arXiv 
preprint arXiv:2204.01480, 2022. 
[32] V. Nair, G. M. Garrido, and D. Song, "Exploring the Unprecedented 
Privacy Risks of the Metaverse," arXiv preprint arXiv:2207.13176, 
2022. 
[33]  R. Di Pietro and S. Cresci, "Metaverse: Security and Privacy Issues," 
International Conference on Trust, Privacy and Security in Intelligent 
Systems and Applications (TPS-ISA), 2021: IEEE, pp. 281-288.  
[34] S. B. Far and A. I. Rad, "Applying Digital Twins in Metaverse: User 
Interface, Security and Privacy Challenges," Journal of Metaverse, 
vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 8-16, 2022. 
[35] B. Falchuk, S. Loeb, and R. Neff, "The social metaverse: Battle for 
privacy," IEEE Technology and Society Magazine, vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 
52-61, 2018. 
[36] H. Murphy. "Facebook patents reveal how it intends to cash in on 
metaverse." https://www.ft.com/content/76d40aac-034e-4e0b-95eb-
c5d34146f647. 
[37] "Metaverse Data Protection and Privacy: The Next Big-Tech 
Dilemma?" https://www.xrtoday.com/virtual-reality/metaverse-data-
protection-and-privacy-the-next-big-tech-dilemma/.
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:52:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.