Blockchain Systems, Technologies, and Applications: A Methodology Perspective
IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023 353
Blockchain Systems, Technologies, and
Applications: A Methodology Perspective
Bin Cao , Senior Member, IEEE, Zixin Wang, Long Zhang , Daquan Feng , Member, IEEE,
Mugen Peng , Fellow, IEEE, Lei Zhang , Senior Member, IEEE, and Zhu Han , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—In the past decade, blockchain has shown a promis-
ing vision to build trust without any powerful third party in
a secure, decentralized and scalable manner. However, due to
the wide application and future development from cryptocur-
rency to the Internet of Things, blockchain is an extremely
complex system enabling integration with mathematics, com-
puter science, communication and network engineering, etc. By
revealing the intrinsic relationship between blockchain and com-
munication, networking and computing from a methodological
perspective, it provided a view to the challenge that engineers,
experts and researchers hardly fully understand the blockchain
process in a systematic view from top to bottom. In this article
we first introduce how blockchain works, the research activities
and challenges, and illustrate the roadmap involving the clas-
sic methodologies with typical blockchain use cases and topics.
Second, in blockchain systems, how to adopt stochastic process,
game theory, optimization theory, and machine learning to study
the blockchain running processes and design the blockchain
protocols/algorithms are discussed in details. Moreover, the
advantages and limitations using these methods are also summa-
rized as the guide of future work to be further considered. Finally,
some remaining problems from technical, commercial and politi-
cal views are discussed as the open issues. The main findings
of this article will provide a survey from a methodological
Manuscript received 7 February 2022; revised 20 August 2022; accepted
26 August 2022. Date of publication 6 September 2022; date of current ver-
sion 24 February 2023. This work was supported in part by the National Key
Research and Development Program of China under Grant 2021YFB1714100
and Grant 2020YFB1806700; in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grant 61925101 and Grant 61831002; in part
by NSF under Grant CNS-2107216 and Grant CNS-2128368; and in part
by the Zhejiang Lab under Grant 2021KF0AB03. (Corresponding author:
Daquan Feng.)
Bin Cao is with the State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching
Technology, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing
100876, China, and also with Zhejiang Lab, Hangzhou 311121, China (e-mail:
caobin@bupt.edu.cn).
Zixin Wang and Mugen Peng are with the State Key Laboratory of
Networking and Switching Technology, Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China (e-mail: wangzx@bupt.edu.cn;
pmg@bupt.edu.cn).
Long Zhang is with the National Key Laboratory of Science and Technology
on Communications, University of Electronic Science and Technology of
China, Chengdu 611731, China (e-mail: zhanglong3211@yeah.net).
Daquan Feng is with the Shenzhen Key Laboratory of Digital Creative
Technology, the Guangdong Province Engineering Laboratory for Digital
Creative Technology, Guangdong Key Laboratory of Intelligent Information
Processing, College of Electronics and Information Engineering, Shenzhen
University, Shenzhen 518060, China (e-mail: fdquan@szu.edu.cn).
Lei Zhang is with the James Watt School of Engineering, University of
Glasgow, G12 8QQ Glasgow, U.K. (e-mail: lei.zhang@glasgow.ac.uk).
Zhu Han is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
University of Houston, Houston, TX 77004 USA, and also with the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Kyung Hee University,
Seoul 446-701, South Korea (e-mail: hanzhu22@gmail.com).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/COMST.2022.3204702
perspective to study theoretical model for blockchain fundamen-
tals understanding, design network service for blockchain-based
mechanisms and algorithms, as well as apply blockchain for the
Internet of Things, etc.
Index Terms—Blockchain, stochastic process, game theory,
optimization theory, machine learning, network.
I. INTRODUCTION
ORIGINALLY proposed as the backbone technology of
Bitcoin [1], Ethereum [2], and many other digital curren-
cies [3], blockchain has become a revolutionary decentralized
data management framework that establishes consensuses and
agreements in a trust-less and distributed environment [4]. In
addition to the soaring in the finance sector, blockchain has
been attracted much attention from many other major indus-
trial sectors ranging from supply chain [5], transportation [6],
entertainment [7], retail [8], healthcare [9], information man-
agement [10], financial services [11], etc. As such, Gartner
forecasts that by 2030, blockchain will generate an annual
business value of more than U.S. $3 trillion, and envisions
that 10% to 20% of global economic infrastructure will be
running on blockchain-based systems [12].
Fundamentally, blockchain is a decentralized ledger man-
agement system for recording and validating transactions. It
allows two parties to complete a transaction in a peer-to-peer
(P2P) network [13]. Without involvement of an authority or
the third party, all peer nodes work together to maintain public
ledger with the aim of realizing trust, security, transparency
and immutability. The recorded transaction in blockcahin can
be any form of data that involves the ownership transfer or
sharing of resource, where it can be tangible such as money,
houses, land, or copyright, and digital documents.
Essentially, blockchain is built on a physical network that
relies on the communication, computing and caching, which
serves the basis of blockchain functions such as incentive
mechanism or consensus. As such, blockchain systems can
be depicted as a two-tier architecture: an infrastructure layer
and a blockchain layer. The infrastructure layer is the under-
lying entity and responsible for maintaining P2P network,
building connection through wired/wireless communication,
computing and storing data. The top is the blockchain layer
that can realize trust and security functions based on under-
lying information exchanging. More specifically, blockchain
features several key components which are summarized as:
transaction, block and chain of blocks. Transaction contains
1553-877X c© 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8839-243X
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3659-3405
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0667-1150
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4755-7231
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4767-3849
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6606-5822
354 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
the information requested by the client and need to be recorded
by public ledger; block securely records an amount of transac-
tions or other useful information; using consensus mechanism,
blocks are linked orderly to constitute a chain of blocks,
which indicates logical relation among the blocks to construct
blockchain. As a core function of the blockchain, the consen-
sus mechanism works in the blockchain layer ensures a clear
sequence of transactions and ensures the integrity and con-
sistency of the blockchain across geographically distributed
nodes [14]. The state of a blockchain is updated when a valid
transaction is recorded on chain, and smart contract can be
used to automatically trigger transactions under certain con-
ditions [15]. Therefore, due to its autonomy and efficiency,
smart contract is being used for a wide range of purposes,
from self-managed identities on public blockchains to allowing
automated business collaboration on blockchains.
Driven by the continuous development of 5G technology,
more and more services have been launched to improve
network performance and user experience. Importantly, fea-
tures such as data immutability and transparency are the key
factors to ensure the successful launch of new services such
as IoT data collection, driverless cars, and drones. Blockchain
is regarded as a very promising technology to meet these
new requirements with its decentralization, openness, tam-
per resistance, anonymity and traceability. Therefore, in order
to thoroughly explore the potential of blockchain and make
it better serve the requirements of modern networks, it is
necessary to comprehensively and systematically understand
blockchain from top to bottom. Methodology advocates going
to the bottom of the problem, digging into the essence behind
the phenomenon, and forming a theoretical system with a cer-
tain depth. It is possible to reveal the internal contradiction
of a problem and determine its fundamental solution from
a methodological perspective. In light of this, the methodol-
ogy can be well used to reveal the principles of blockchain
operation process and blockchain protocol/algorithm design
in blockchain systems, providing theoretical support for solv-
ing specific problems. Therefore, this paper aims to provide a
comprehensive survey to introduce how to exploit the math-
ematical methods, such as, stochastic process, game theory,
optimization theory, and machine learning, to analyze and
solve the specific problems in blockchain system.
A. Existing Surveys and Tutorials
Recognising the wide applications of blockchain technol-
ogy, a novel survey or tutorial paper can help researchers in
various fields build good foundations on the subject to guide
actual developments. Recently, several works have reviewed
the advanced development of blockchain from various views,
which are summarized in Section I.
For security and privacy, Salman et al. in [13] present
blockchain-based security services in authentication, confiden-
tiality, privacy and access control, etc. Waheed et al. in [16]
summarize the research efforts of using machine learning algo-
rithms and blockchain technology to address security and
privacy issues for the Internet of Things (IoT). Conti et al.
in [17] focus on the security and privacy threats of Bitcoin,
and discusses the feasibility and limitations of potential solu-
tions. Saad et al. in [18] focus on how attacks affect public
blockchain and discuss the relationships between a sequence
of possible attacks.
Besides, as the core of blockchain, consensus determines
the performance and security of the blockchain in many ways,
Ferdous et al. in [19] utilize comprehensive taxonomy of prop-
erties to analyze a wide range of consensus algorithms, and
examines in detail the meaning of the different problems that
are still prevalent in the consensus algorithm. Wang et al.
in [20] review the state of the art consensus protocols and
game theory in mining strategy management. Xiao et al.
in [21] introduce the classic theory of fault tolerance and ana-
lyze blockchain consensus protocols using a five-component
framework.
For the scalability of the blockchain, Xie et al. in [22] study
the scalability of the blockchain system, analyze the scalability
from the perspective of throughput, storage and network, and
introduces the existing enabling technology of the scalable
blockchain system. Yu et al. in [23] study the sharding problem
in the blockchain includes providing a detailed comparison and
a quantitative evaluation of the main sharding mechanisms,
as well as an analysis of the characteristics and limitations
of existing solutions. Gamage et al. in [24] discuss issues of
the existing blockchains such as 51% attack, nothing-at-stake
problem together with improvements for the scalability issues
in current blockchains.
The integration of blockchain and 5G has become a main-
stream trend, Nguyen et al. in [25] provide the latest survey
on the integration of blockchain with 5G networks and other
networks. It gives an extensive discussion about the potential
of blockchain for enabling key technologies of 5G, and fur-
ther explores and analyzes the opportunities that blockchain
may give important 5G services. Yue et al. [26] provide a
concise review of the recent efforts on blockchain decentral-
ization application in 5G and beyond. Moreover, by enabling
the integration of blockchain and other advanced technolo-
gies, various works have explored potential applications and
research challenges in IoT [27], [28], smart city [29], cloud
computing [30], edge computing [31], and fog computing [32].
From the perspective of mathematical tools, Liu et al.
in [33] provide overviews and discussions using game theory
in detail to address a variety of problems on the subject of
security, mining management and blockchain applications. In
the context of artificial intelligence, Liu et al. in [34] discuss
feasible solutions integrating blockchain and machine learning
for communications and networking system.
B. Motivation
Existing surveys and tutorials mainly focus on blockchain
architectures, protocols, the integration of blockchain and
other network technologies, etc. However, the intrinsic rela-
tionship between blockchain and communication, networking
and computing from the methodological perspective has
not been well studied. As a frontier research of multi-
technology integration, blockchain requires researchers with
multidisciplinary knowledge backgrounds in communication,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 355
networking, and computing to understand the operating
environment, basic principles, and the emerging applications
in B5G/6G, IoT, and other fields.
Therefore, this motivates us to review the state of the art of
blockchain to reveal the relations of blockchain system with
communication, networking, and computing and how they
interact with each other. Furthermore, to facilitate the deploy-
ment of blockchain-based applications, many researchers pay
attention to how to carry out mathematical methods to solve a
specific blockchain problem. Still, very few surveys or tutorials
explicitly discuss the use of blockchain from the perspective
of methodologies.
We aim to reveal the intrinsic relationship between
blockchain and communication, networking and comput-
ing through classical methodological approaches, including
stochastic process, game theory, optimization theory, and
machine learning. Stochastic process can help us model
blockchain running processes to reveal the intrinsic nature of
blockchain networks and inter-node communication since it
can establish a system model in complex and uncertain envi-
ronments. Besides, game theory describes the conflict and
cooperation between resource competitors, and optimization
theory seeks the optimal solution with constraints. As such,
they are helpful in exploring the impact of blockchain node
behavior on blockchain system performance and resource allo-
cation. Additionally, machine learning is also a valuable tool
for improving blockchain system performance, such as mali-
cious node detection and attack identification. Meanwhile,
blockchain enables machine learning models to protect against
single point of failure. Therefore, the analysis and research on
the fusion of blockchain and machine learning can support the
design of blockchain-based network services.
Specifically, the main contributions of this survey can be
summarized as follows:
• We provided a background of blockchain research and
discussed the applications and limitations of blockchain
in practical networks, including scalability, overhead and
interoperability;
• We outlined the research activities of blockchain in terms
of theoretical models, network service mechanisms and
vertical applications, as well as discussed the remaining
challenge of blockchain system;
• We analyzed the fundamental theory of blockchain and
the design of blockchain-based network services, and
the applications of blockchain from the perspective of
methodologies involving stochastic process, game theory,
optimization theory, and machine learning;
• We presented some case studies applying classical
methodologies in blockchain and summarized the chal-
lenges involved, providing feasible guidance for practical
deployment;
• We discussed the remaining problems and open issues
based on the comprehensive survey, including cryp-
tography, smart contract, blockchain architectures and
protocols, and commercial and political views.
C. The Structure of the Paper
This paper aims to provide a comprehensive survey on
the theoretical model, network service and management, and
the application for blockchain systems from the methodol-
ogy perspective. Section II first introduces the workflow, key
technologies and applications of blockchain, then discusses
the research activities and challenges, and finally shows the
connections between classic methodologies. Sections III–VI
analyze the applications of these methodologies in blockchain.
To be more specific, in each of Sections III–VI, we provide
a brief model and case study for each methodology, summa-
rize the classical issues and related literature involved, and
discuss lessons learned. Section VII discusses open issues
of blockchain. Finally, Section VIII concludes this paper.
For convenience of readers, the organization of this paper is
illustrated in Fig. 1.
II. RESEARCH ACTIVITY AND CHALLENGE
Recently, lots of work have been done on the applica-
tion of blockchain and the improvement of network system
performance, involving of the blockchain-based functions
design and network optimization. The blockchain-based func-
tions such as the consensus protocol, incentive mechanism
and smart contract have significant impacts on the reliabil-
ity, efficiency and scalability of the blockchain system [35].
However, the design of blockchain-based functions also faces
challenges due to storage constraints, computing overhead and
delay constraints. One of the most important issues is that
how blockchain and network system interact with each other,
especially in wireless scenario which is called as wireless
blockchain networks (WBN) [36]. On the one hand, with the
advent of 5G, the explosive information would be exchanged
through wireless networks, and thus WBN is proposed to
build a safe and trust wireless network. On the other hand,
blockchain relies on frequent communication among consen-
sus nodes to reach consensus. While the highly dynamic
wireless network environment will bring performance and
degradation to the communication within blockchain consen-
sus nodes.
Therefore, the above-mentioned challenges greatly hinder
the safe and efficient application of blockchain in practical
systems and weaken the contribution of blockchain to bet-
ter improve the practical systems performances. To cope with
those challenges, it is first necessary to understand the fun-
damentals of blockchain, the operating process of practical
communication systems, as well as the impact of the resources
(e.g., communication, networking, computing resources, and
etc.) and other uncertain factors on the performance of
blockchain. Thus, an accurate and efficient theoretical model
need to be established to analyze blockchain system perfor-
mances and its influencing factors in essence. Then the design
of network services for blockchain-based mechanisms and
algorithms can be implemented, but which often require the
help of classical methodologies. Finally, in order to facili-
tate the deployment of blockchain-based applications in IoT,
Internet of Vehicles (IoV) and other scenarios, it is also neces-
sary to explore how to use mathematical methods to define a
specific blockchain problem, and examine various constraints
and application requirements in the practical systems from
the perspective of methodology. Therefore, methodology is
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
356 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
Fig. 1. Organization structure of this paper.
the basis for studying the fundamentals, performances and
applications of blockchain, and has been recognized.
However, most of the existing review research direc-
tions focus on the combination of blockchain and other
advanced technologies, the integration of blockchain and novel
networks, and the security and privacy issues of blockchain
technology, etc., with the advantage of providing theoretical
support for blockchain applications. But, it may also have
certain limitations, which are affected by complex and uncer-
tain factors in the practical system, and thus fail to further
support the optimization of blockchain function design and
network performance improvement. Therefore, it is necessary
to systematically and comprehensively study the blockchain
systems, technologies and applications from the perspective
of methodology, and objectively evaluate their advantages and
limitations.
In this Section, we first introduce the blockchain workflow
in Section II-A and the key technologies of blockchain in
Section II-B. Next, we study the applications of blockchain in
Section II-C and the research activity in Section II-D. Then,
we discuss the remaining challenges of blockchain system in
Section II-E and show the connections between the classical
methodologies in Section II-F.
A. How Does Blockchain Work
Both the infrastructure and blockchain layers are interrelated
and interact with each other. Although the detailed procedure
might be different in practical scenarios, some basic steps may
be the same, as shown in Fig. 2. With these steps, multiple
blocks are linked to form a chronological chain. In particular,
each block contains a hash value of the immediately preceding
block, which makes the linked data immutable.
Through this workflow, the transaction is finally agreed
by the majority of nodes and recorded in blockchain, where
malicious nodes cannot subvert the consensus results. This
decentralized architecture ensures robust and safe operations
on the blockchain, with the advantages of resisting tamper
and single point of failure. It can be seen from the Fig. 2
that each blockchain node in the blockchain system under-
takes all or part of functions, such as communication between
nodes, maintenance of P2P networks, and computation of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 357
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF EXISTING SURVEYS AND TUTORIALS
consensus mechanisms. Thus, the underlying communication,
networking and computating is crucial to establish an effec-
tive and secure blockchain system. This encourages us to
study how communication, networking and computing affect
blockchain systems. Fortunately, some classic methodologies
can provide good ideas, such as stochastic process for block
generation and nodes communication, machine learning for
P2P network performance improving, and optimization theory
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
358 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
Fig. 2. An overview of blockchain workflow.
for resource allocation. Therefore, it is feasible and valuable to
explore the interaction process of communication, networking
and computing and their impact on the blockchain system from
the perspective of methodology, and even can provide help for
revealing the essential problems in the operation process of the
blockchain system.
B. Key Technologies in Blockchain
Key technologies used in blockchain include cryptogra-
phy, P2P network, consensus mechanism, smart contract, data
storage and incentive mechanism.
1) Cryptography: In blockchain, cryptography is mainly
used for data encryption and privacy protection, such as
asymmetric encryption algorithm, hash algorithm, and zero-
knowledge proof (ZKP) [37]. Asymmetric cryptography is
often adopted for encryption and digital signature, which guar-
antees the security and reliability of data in blockchains.
The hash algorithm, that any slight changes in the hash
input will lead to a totally different hash output, can ensure
the immutability of blockchains, which is often utilized for
block performing and transaction information verification. By
using ZKP, verifiers can verify provers without revealing
any information about the provers, significantly improving
blockchain privacy [38].
2) P2P Network: P2P network enables direct data
exchange between different nodes in blockchains [39]. As
for P2P network structure, it can be divided into structureless
network, structured network, and hybrid network. With the
development of blockchain, the hybrid network that is charac-
terized by decentralization and high communication efficiency
is becoming the mainstream solution driven by the demands
for efficient communication and network governance [40].
3) Consensus Mechanism: As the essential component for
blockchain systems to achieve state consistency, the consen-
sus mechanism plays a crucial and irreplaceable role and
mainly determines the security boundary and performance of
blockchain systems. Generally, the consensus mechanism is
Fig. 3. Multi-dimensional graph for performance comparison of typical
consensus mechanisms in blockchain.
the rule that constrains each node in the decentralized network
and ensures all participants agree on a unified transaction
ledger without central authority [21]. There are various con-
sensus mechanisms proposed for different projects, and most
of them are originated from typical Proof-of-Work (PoW),
Proof of Stake (PoS), Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance
(PBFT), and Direct Acyclic Graph (DAG). Fig. 3 provides a
multi-dimensional performance comparison for several typical
consensus mechanisms.
4) Smart Contract: Smart contract is a computer program
running on top of blockchain, designed to automatically facil-
itate direct negotiations or contract terms between users when
certain conditions are met [41]. Besides, smart contract exe-
cution is not dependent on any third party, nor can any entity
modify the rules defined in it, which reduces the risk of
tampering. These features allow the smart contract to further
extend the functionality of blockchain to meet the needs of
various applications.
5) Data Storage: As a distributed database, blockchain
requires efficient underlying storage that can accommodate
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 359
large-scale storage requirements [42]. Currently, various stor-
age technologies have been applied in blockchain, such as
LevelDB, CouchDB, RocksDB, MySQL, and InterPlanetary
File System.
6) Incentive Mechanism: The incentive mechanism is the
driving force to maintain the safety and sustainability of
a blockchain system by encouraging participants through a
monetary or non-monetary approach. The monetary-based
incentive mechanism increases the cost of attacking or self-
ish behavior by means of economic balance, while the
non-monetary-based incentive mechanism seeks to motivate
participants to cooperate through credibility or reputation [43].
C. Blockchain Applications
This section highlights the significant applications of
blockchain in communication systems and services, focusing
on architecture improvement, system performance enhance-
ment, and integration with other technologies.
1) Flexible and Trusted Network Deployment: Various ser-
vice deliveries can be achieved by blockchain. For exam-
ple, access control [44], authentication [45], and service
response [46] can be implemented on the decentralized ledgers
among network participants without additional management
infrastructure [25]. In addition, by leveraging the blockchain
features, such as decentralization, tamper-proof, and trace-
ability, a large number of non-mutually trusted subnetworks
can cooperate to build a large-scale trusted network, provid-
ing flexibility for dynamic and large-scale network deploy-
ments [47].
2) Spectrum Sharing Enhancement: Increasing mobile data
traffic puts pressure on the management of communi-
cation system resources, especially the radio spectrum.
Blockchain offers a promising solution for overcoming spec-
trum monopoly and low spectrum utilization to increase
communication system throughput and reduce latency. Various
researches have recently focused on secure and dynamic spec-
trum trading [48], [49], [50], spectrum sensing [51], [52],
[53], and spectrum management [54], [55], [56], [57] using
blockchain.
3) Security and Trust Enhancement: Blockchain has been
investigated and integrated with mobile edge computing
(MEC), cloud computing, device-to-device communication,
etc., to meet the requirements of IoV, IoT, and indus-
trial networks in terms of secure communication, reliable
information sharing, and trusted authentication. Besides,
blockchain has the potential to enhance the security of serval
emerging technologies, such as federated learning (FL) [58]
and transfer learning (TL) [59]. Blockchain is also combined
with space-air-ground integrated networks [60] and tactile
networks [61], aiming to build a ubiquitous trust system
to meet the requirements of 6G in terms of high security,
reliability, and privacy.
Although blockchain applications have attracted extensive
attention from both academia and industry, there are still many
limitations to be further addressed before apply it in practical
environments, including resource consumption, scalability, and
interoperability.
1) Resource Consumption: High resource consumption
in communication, storage, and computing are signifi-
cant burdens affecting the practical blockchain applications.
Blockchain relies on frequent communication among nodes
to reach consensus, which would lead to a high communica-
tion resource (e.g., spectrum) consumption, and thus causing
strain on wireless networks especially when the network is
large [35]. Besides, in traditional blockchain networks, each
consensus node needs to store a copy of the entire ledger,
which would significantly pressure lightweight devices for
storage. Moreover, most lightweight devices cannot provide
sufficient computing capability to perform some computation-
ally complex consensus mechanisms.
2) Scalability: Poor scalability is a key barrier to the large-
scale application of blockchain in practical environments. In
communication networks, scalability is related to the two
significant factors, i.e., communication resource and transmis-
sion power [35]. In particular, the growing number of nodes
would lead to a rapid increase in the communication resource
requirement, which results in low consensus efficiency and
poor scalability. Besides, in wireless networks, the transmis-
sion power could affect the coverage and thus the blockchain
scalability when the node density is fixed. Currently, many
enabling technologies have been developed to improve the
blockchain scalability. However, it is usually at the cost of
other key performances. For instance, sharding is often used to
avoid the duplicating communication in each full node, but the
security of blockchain decreases as the number of shardings
increases [62]. Therefore, it is inevitable to balance scala-
bility and other performance, i.e., security, when leveraging
blockchains in practical applications.
3) Interoperability: Interoperability is also an important
requirement for blockchain applications in practical environ-
ments. Currently, various blockchain systems with different
characteristics have been proposed for different scenarios.
However, since there lacks of interoperability in underlying
functions, these systems would act as island networks without
interconnections. It would result in a barrier to secure and effi-
cient data sharing and business collaboration among different
blockchains.
D. Research Activities
In this section, we first classify the mainstream research
activities into theoretical modeling for blockchain performance
analysis, blockchain-based function design for network
services, and blockchain-based solution for vertical applica-
tions. Moreover, the contributions and potential developments
of these research activities are discussed.
1) Theoretical Modeling for Blockchain Performance
Analysis: The establishment of accurate and effective theoreti-
cal models is significant for studying the system performance,
such as the necessary conditions for achieving consistency,
delay and cost of achieving consistency, and processing capac-
ity of blockchain. Existing projects and studies on system
performance focus on theoretically analyzing in stochas-
tic variable analysis, consensus protocol design for specific
applications, and decoupling of the traditional centralized
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
360 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
network architectures for security and scalability [63], [64],
[65]. In addition, the innovation of different types of con-
sensus algorithms that have unique characteristics and serve
other purposes has great significance to the security and effi-
ciency of blockchain systems, thus attracting many scholars’
attention [19].
However, in practical blockchain systems, the factors affect-
ing its performance are rich and complex. Therefore, to
better perform blockchain performance analysis, resource con-
straints and uncertain aspects of communication, networking
and computing also need to be considered. Thus, there is
a need to further design a theoretical model that can cap-
ture the characteristics of complex dynamic scenarios for the
optimal design of the blockchain system and the network ser-
vice design based on blockchain, to provide the theoretical
guidance and design ideas for technological innovation and
breakthroughs.
2) Blockchain Protocol for Network Services: Apart from
the initial financial service, more researches related to
blockchain services are concentrated on specific areas relevant
to network services, such as public and social services [66],
cloud services [67], and other Internet services. For dis-
tributed systems with blockchain participation, state consis-
tency among nodes is the key to ensuring integrity and secu-
rity. Therefore, many researchers intend to develop improved
consensus mechanisms to meet different purposes and appli-
cations, such as Proof-of-Trust for high throughput and low
resource consumption [68], Proof of Authority for Sybil attack
resistance [69], and Multi-Layer PBFT for scalability [70].
Besides, incentive mechanism is also essential to regulate
entity behaviors to improve blockchain-based network service
performance. Different incentive mechanisms have currently
been proposed, such as incentives to participate [71], [72],
[73] and cooperate [74], [75], [76].
In addition to protocol design, a systematic analytical frame-
work is required to describe the operational logic of blockchain
protocols and network services to depict how specific network
environments, resource requirements, and behavioral patterns
affect network-wide consensus reaching, system performance
and security.
3) Blockchain-Based Solution for Vertical Applications:
Owning to the benefits of building trust, reducing cost and
accelerating transactions, blockchain technology is expanding
to other areas including IoV, industry 4.0, smart homes, and
such [14], [77], [78], [79]. Various blockchain platforms have
been built for different vertical applications. Bitcoin, ETH,
and Hashgraph, for example, are blockchain platforms that
are focused on providing high security and low transaction
cost. These platforms are suitable for applications where data
security is of the most importance, such as health data shar-
ing, payments and credit reporting. Some platforms, such as
Nxt, IOTA, Hyperledger Fabric and EOS, has its advantage
in high scalability which can be implemented in IoT, supply
chain traceability and logistics traceability. A more detailed
analysis of existing typical platforms is in Table III.
Furthermore, relying on the underlying technology and
blockchain platform, specific industry applications can be
developed according to the actual application scenarios of
various industries, so as to realize the innovation of business
collaboration mode in the vertical industry.
E. Challenges
1) Systematic Theoretical Model: Notably, a solid the-
oretical foundation can provide theoretical guidance for
rational applications and technological breakthroughs, which
would further advance blockchain development. However, the
performance analysis of the current studies is mainly con-
ducted through experimental simulations or application imple-
ments without systematic theoretical arguments [84], [85].
Therefore, accurate and extensible theoretical models are
required to guide the rapid popularity of blockchain appli-
cations.
2) Cost-Effective Protocol Design: Integrating blockchain
into practical systems, especially wireless networks, with
limited computing, storage and communication capacity, is
still a challenging issue. As the mainstream blockchain pro-
tocols, PoW is of high resource consumption, PoS faces
posterior corruption and wealth centralization risk, and
DAG’s performance is greatly influenced by information
load, while Byzantine fault tolerance is of high communica-
tion complexity. These characteristics prevent these protocols
from applying to the practical system with diversified ser-
vice requirements. Therefore, a dedicated and cost-effective
blockchain protocol for practical systems is necessary to
address the mismatch in communication, networking and
computing.
3) Joint Optimization: The performance and security of
wireless network-based blockchain are not only affected by
the designed blockchain protocol but also by the applica-
tion scenarios. For example, in blockchain-enabled MEC
systems [86], except for the delay/time to finality (DTF) for the
blockchain system, energy consumption for the MEC system
is also a key performance metric that needs to be considered.
Then, to avoid sub-optimal performance, a joint optimization
scheme is required to achieve optimal trade-off between
the two metrics. Generally, when emerging blockchain with
other technologies, joint optimization must be considered to
eliminate unilateral bottlenecks and ultimately achieve over-
all system performance optimization from the perspective of
multi-dimensional requirements.
F. Connections Between the Classical Methodologies
In this section, we summarize the classical methodolo-
gies mentioned in this work, as shown in Table II. Also,
we present the connections of these methodologies, shown in
Fig. 4.
Stochastic process and machine learning: Generally, a
stochastic process is used to build mathematical models for
systems that vary in a random manner. Instead, machine
learning is used to explore data patterns and structures
for more accurate predictions and decisions. With advan-
tages in modeling complex and dynamic environments, the
stochastic process can reveal the essence of blockchain oper-
ations, optimize the performance of blockchain networks and
guide the deployment of blockchain applications. Meanwhile,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 361
TABLE II
SUMMARY OF CLASSIC METHODOLOGIES
Fig. 4. Connections between the classical methodologies.
machine learning is dedicated to providing efficient and
intelligent decisions for blockchain to support performance
optimization.
Game theory and optimization theory: The main objec-
tive of game theory and optimization theory is to find the
optimal solution under the given conditions. Game theory
describes the conflict and cooperation among the participants
to develop a rational decision for players in a dynamic envi-
ronment. Therefore, game theory is commonly used to analyze
the behavior of blockchain users to optimize the system
performance accordingly. Optimization theory aims to solve an
optimization problem that describes the mathematical relation-
ships between different factors affecting network performance.
Thus, optimization theory is usually applied to quantify the
association among essential factors in blockchain networks
based on the instantaneous state of each node and finds the
optimal solution for performance improvement.
III. STOCHASTIC PROCESS IN BLOCKCHAIN
Stochastic Process [87] is a mathematical method to estab-
lish mathematical model and analyze its performance for
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
362 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
TABLE III
MAJOR BLOCKCHAIN PLATFORMS
complex and stochastic systems, by which a set of time-
dependent random variables are used to describe the system
state at a specific time. Typically, in wireless communication
scenario, due to the fact that information is usually stochastic,
leading to the complex environment in wireless communica-
tion. The Markov process is now most widely used stochastic
process to modeling such communication environment. As for
Markov process, if the current system state is determined, the
future system state would be also known, no matter what the
system state is in the past. Therefore, the Markov process can
be used to predict the system state, user action and network
performance. Meanwhile, stochastic geometry [88] is another
mathematical tool widely used in the modeling and analysis
of communications and networking [89]. In communication
networks, the actual network nodes and spatial locations can be
formulated as random point processes, such as Homogeneous
Poisson Point Process (HPPP), which is to eliminate the ran-
domness by traversal to analyze the system performance and
provide design ideas theoretically.
A. Classical Issues
In this section, we introduce classical issues in blockchain
networks that could be solved by the stochastic process, which
can be categorized as follows.
1) Analysis of Blockchain Operation Process: In practical
blockchain systems, there are many random behaviors, such as
block generation time, confirmation delay, chain growth rate
and forking, which make it difficult to analyze the growth
and evolution of blockchain networks. Due to the ability to
model complex and uncertain scenarios, a stochastic process
is used to formulate the operation process of blockchains
effectively and accurately, such as Markov chain for con-
sensus modeling [90], non-homogeneous Poisson process for
difficulty-of-work re-adjustment [91], and MDP for stale block
rate [69].
2) Security Enhancement: In order to prevent or mini-
mize the impact of attacks, exploring the security boundaries
of blockchain networks is another important topic in the
blockchain field. By modeling and analyzing malicious behav-
ior modes, the stochastic process can reveal the impact of
different attack schemes on system performance and clarify
the cost of successful attacks.
3) Performance Improvement: Stochastic process
also improves blockchain performance in terms of
network optimization, node deployment, etc. For exam-
ple, the Poisson point process (PPP) can be applied to
model the location distribution and transaction arrival
rate to investigate the impact of key factors, such as
communication throughput and transaction throughput,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 363
Fig. 5. The stochastic process in consensus process of the Blockchain.
on the large-scale deployment of blockchain in practical
networks.
B. Model Briefs
In this section, we discuss how to use stochastic process in
blockchain system on the typical issues of consensus, security
and deployment. In order to formulate the consensus process
in blockchain system as a stochastic process, it is necessary
to define a metric (like the cumulative block in PoW, or the
cumulative weight in DAG) to indicate the consensus state at
the different time. Moreover, if it satisfies Markov properties,
the consensus process can be formulated as a Markov chain
model with one-step transition probability P = P{Xn+1 =
in+1|Xn+1 = in}.
As shown in Fig. 5, we use a Markov chain to model the
consensus process. In this process, Si (i = 1, 2, . . . ,m) rep-
resents the state in the consensus process, and Pi ,j is the
one-step transition probability in the Markov chain mode.
Accordingly, we can learn the consensus process and gradu-
ally understand the inner-action. Furthermore, it is also useful
to analyze the malicious forking attack for security.
As the most famous consensus process, the PoW-based
mining task proposed by bitcoin is a competition among
minors, where the winner has the right to generate a new
block to obtain an amount of reward. For malicious pur-
poses like double-spending in the blockchain, forking attack
launched by the malicious node which generates blocks to
build a parasite chain privately, it would succeed if the parasite
chain is longer than the main chain built by the honest node
due to Longest-Chain-Rule (LCR). Indeed, this attack can be
treated as a competition between honest and malicious nodes.
Particularly, without any malicious node, this competition is
also the consensus process formulated previously. Therefore,
the competition for block generation can be modeled as a
Poisson process to study the relationship between honest and
malicious nodes, which is shown in Fig. 6. The malicious
nodes compete against the honest nodes to generate the block.
The node which has the biggest probability will have the right
to generate the block. Accordingly, the factors affecting the
vulnerability of blockchain can be known, and the success-
ful probability of malicious node can be determined. As a
result, the theoretical insight can be provided to resist forking
attack, optimize consensus mechanisms, and improve network
security.
Like the classic base station deployment problem in hetero-
geneous networks, deployment of blockchain function node
(or called as full node in some literatures) can be solved
using a stochastic method/stochastic methods in the same
manner. The blockchain system is decentralized which is
Fig. 6. The stochastic process in the block generation of the Blockchain.
Fig. 7. An example of consensus process in Tangle [92].
composed of multiple distributed blockchain nodes, their geo-
graphical distribution can be modeled as a HPPP. In this
way, we can construct an effective blockchain system architec-
ture, and analyze the impact of blockchain node distribution
on the communication throughput, SNR, security and other
network metrics. Therefore, a valuable theoretical guidance
is developed to optimize the blockchain node deployment in
order to improve the system performance.
C. Case Study
In this section, we will use our previous work [92] as an
example to introduce how to model the classic blockchain
problem as a stochastic process. Tangle, one of the most typ-
ical DAG consensuses, has attracted extensive attention in
DAG-based ledgers. Therefore, we adopt it as a typical exam-
ple to introduce the DAG consensus process. Fig. 7 shows an
example of the consensus process in Tangle.
DAG consensus allows any node to insert a new block into
the ledger immediately, as long as they process the unap-
proved transactions called tips. For an observed transaction
in a DAG-based ledger, its cumulative weight is its own
weight plus the weight of the transactions that approve it,
where the average own weight of each transaction is nor-
malized into 1. Therefore, W(t), the cumulative weight of an
observed transaction at time t, will increase with the approval
of new transactions over time, which is a stochastic pro-
cess. Meanwhile, L(t), the number of tips at time t, is also a
stochastic process. Therefore, when the new transaction arrives
slowly, resulting in a low network load, the future states of L(t)
and W(t) are determined by their current states only and can
be formulated as a discrete-time Markov chain.
When a new transaction x arrives, the change in system state
can be expressed as
W (k + 1) =
{
W (k) ax = 1,
W (k)+1 ax = 0,
(1)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
364 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
Fig. 8. The Markov chain for DAG-based consensus process.
L(k + 1) = L(k)− 1, (2)
where the ax = 1 represents the situation that the observed
transaction has been approved by an incoming new transaction,
and ax = 0 indicates the situation that the observed transaction
has not been approved. Since the new transaction should select
two unselected transactions randomly, and thus (2) indicates
that the new transaction replaces two unselected transactions
as a new one.
Therefore, the corresponding one-step transition probabili-
ties and Markov chain can be shown in Fig. 8.
For example, if the network is from high to low with an
unsteady state, the one-step transition probabilities can be
expressed as:⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
P{i + 1, j − 1 | i , j} = 2/j ,
i = 1, 2, . . . ,Lh − 1; j = 2, 3, . . . ,Lh ,
P{i , j − 1 | i , j} = 1− 2/j ,
i = 1, 2, . . . ,Lh − 1; j = 2, 3, . . . ,Lh ,
P{i + 1, 1 | i , j} = 1, i = 2, 3, . . . ,∞; j = 1.
(3)
This model is for low network load cases, and we can also
obtain the modeling for high network load cases in the same
manner. According to this Markov chain model, it is possible
to provide theoretical guidance for the blockchain implemen-
tation, which can help analyze the key performance indicators
in terms of cumulative weight and confirmation delay under
different network loads, and it is able to evaluate the security
performance based on the understanding the impact of network
loads.
D. Related Works
1) Existing Surveys and Tutorials: Dachian et al. in [93]
provide a review on the estimation of cusp locations for
stochastic process, where models involve Gaussian, ergodic
diffusion processes, independent identically distributed obser-
vations, etc. For the application of stochastic process in various
fields, Lei et al. in [94] focus on stochastic models in address-
ing the challenges of network embedding in data processing
and modeling, as well as summarize the network embed-
ding works in terms of the data side and the model side
from a stochastic perspective. Karr in [95] is concerned with
the role of stochastic process in imaging and gives some
examples about Markov random field imaging model and
Poisson process model for laser radar. Shakarami et al. in [96]
review the application of stochastic process in decision mak-
ing, highlighting the advantages and limitations of Markov
chain, Markov process and Hidden Markov model applied to
offloading decision.
For blockchain, Kang et al. in [97] provide a comprehen-
sive survey of stochastic models proposed to analyze essential
issues in blockchain. Specifically, this survey starts with
classifying the stochastic models for analyzing blockchains
into network-oriented and application-oriented, where the
network-oriented stochastic models are further divided into
performance models and security models. Then, for each of
these categories, the major contributions of related work are
discussed.
2) Control of Mining Difficulty: Kraft in [91] discuss the
difficulty-of-work re-adjustment in the blockchain system. In
order to achieve a relatively ideal average block generation
rate over a period of time, the mining work is formulated
as a non-homogeneous Poisson process and a new method of
the difficulty-of-work re-adjustment is proposed. However, the
randomness of the hash rate in the blockchain system has not
been addressed yet. To this end, Fullmer and Morse in [98]
consider this situation and introduces a random model about
block arrival time, in which the marginal distribution of block
arrival time and its both expectation and variance are derived.
Accordingly, we can know that the target difficulty value both
is a function related to the arrival time of the previous block
and affects the block arrival time in the next retargeting period.
3) Modeling and Analysis: Using the stochastic reward
network, Sukhwani et al. propose a new Hyperledger Fabric
v1.0 + system model and study the performance indica-
tors such as throughput, transaction delay, node utilization,
and queue length in [99]. This proposed model can provide
a quantitative framework to help system architects evaluate
performance as a function of different system configurations
and make design trade-offs decisions. Papadis et al. in [100]
propose a stochastic network model to describe the joint
dynamics of “frontier” processes, track the dynamic evolution
of blockchain networks, capture important blockchain features,
and study the impact of delay on security. Nayak et al. in [101]
adopt Markov Decision Process (MDP) to study the selfish
mining and further explore how a miner can amplify its gain
by non-trivially composing mining attacks with network-level
eclipse attacks. Li et al. in [36] apply Markov chain model
to analyze the performance of the four proposed blockchain-
based access schemes in terms of transaction throughput,
block discard rate, etc. For private blockchain, Huang et al.
in [90] use Markov chain model to analyze the performance
of Raft and predict the network split time and probability
to facilitate the optimization of RAFT parameters. Except
for Markov chain model, Meng et al. in [102] propose
a queueing network-based approach to research consistency
properties of consortium blockchain protocols. Asheralieva
and Niyato in [103] explore the optimal strategies of ser-
vice providers and miners to maximize their long-term benefits
using fully- and partially observable Markov decision models.
Ma et al. in [104] describe PBFT queues using a two-
dimensional Markov process and perform a detailed analysis
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 365
of the performance evaluation of PBFT consensus mechanisms
by matrix-geometric solution. To understand important fac-
tors such as replica node latency and primary node latency
in healthcare blockchain network, Zheng et al. in [105] simu-
late the time response of healthcare blockchain network based
on PBFT using continuous-time Markov chain model, which
provides a basis for the optimal design of blockchain network.
4) Blockchain Node Deployment: Based on the RAFT
consensus mechanism, Xu et al. in [106] study the secu-
rity performance of wireless blockchain networks under
malicious interference, and provides analysis guidance for
the actual deployment of wireless blockchain networks.
Zhu et al. in [107] introduce the blockchain-based heteroge-
neous network in a air-to-ground IoT heterogeneous network.
Moreover, stochastic geometry method is adopted to model the
deployment of Ground Sensors, Air Sensors, and the place of
eavesdroppers with interference attacks. Sun et al. in [108]
model the location deployment and transaction arrival rate in
IoT network as a PPP to study the relationship between com-
munication throughput and transaction throughput, and pro-
pose an optimal communication node deployment algorithm,
which achieves the maximum communication and transaction
throughput with the minimum communication node density.
Liu et al. in [109] formulate the location deployment of base
stations and mobile users as a HPPP for MEC, and derive the
theoretical expressions of relevant performance indicators in
various modes using stochastic geometric methods.
E. Lessons Learned
Due to the randomness of blockchain system, stochas-
tic methods is commonly used for formulation, which can
accurately describe the distribution of blockchain nodes, the
arrival of transactions, the behavior of blockchain users, etc.
Through these mathematical modeling, researchers can track
the dynamic evolution of the blockchain system, and further
analyze of the consensus process, throughput, and security
performance. Accordingly, the corresponding theoretical basis
can be provided for performance improving, such as malicious
attack preventing, and blockchain application accelerating.
Although stochastic process has been widely used in the
literature, there are still issues that should be considered and
improved in the future.
1) Most existing researches formulate the blockchain
system as a certain stochastic process assuming a sim-
ple model such as the Poisson distribution. However,
in the actual environment, the blockchain running pro-
cess usually is more complicated, and how to abstract
the common random variables accurately without loss-
ing generality should be well studied. In other word,
the mathematical formulation must accurately describe
the blockchain system in practice, while considering
the property, complexity and constraint in the view of
theoretical approach.
2) Currently, some typical issues in a few specific scenarios
have been widely investigated. In contrast, a general-
ized stochastic model is in need to describe the whole
blockchain system. In the future, we should further
consider how to use stochastic process to model an end-
to-end blockchain system model, which can systematical
study the actions of blockchain user and the system
performance. In addition, understanding the interactions
between various functions of hash operation, cache, con-
sensus, communication network and smart contract is
another direction for future research.
IV. GAME THEORY IN BLOCKCHAIN
Game theory [110], [111] is a mathematical theory to study
the strategy selection in competitive behaviors. A basic game
consists of four basic elements: player (decision maker), strat-
egy (the player’s action), reward (the game result obtained
after the player chooses a strategy) and equilibrium (a bal-
ance). We can use the game theory to formulate the conflicts
and cooperations between selfish and rational decision-makers.
By analyzing both expected and actual behaviors of the play-
ers, we can study how each player generate and optimize
individual strategy under different situation. In a game, if no
player can obtain more profits by changing his own strategy
alone, we call that the strategy set of all players at this time is
at the state of Nash equilibrium [112]. Nash equilibrium guar-
antees that each player’s strategy is optimal no matter how
the strategy of other players changes. In recent years, game
theory has become an important tool for communication and
network research, in which most interactions can be analyzed
as game behaviors to find the optimal competitive strategy.
A. Classical Issues
In this section, we summarize and classify classical issues
in blockchain networks that could be solved by game theory.
1) Analysis of Blockchain Operation Process: Game theory
can be used to investigate the operation process of blockchain
mechanisms and the behavior of blockchain users. Besides,
game theory is also useful in describing the dynamic evolution
of the mining pool selection process with multiple parameters,
which can provide engineers with a valuable perspective on
mining pool management.
2) Security Enhancement: Game theory can be utilized to
study security strategies that discourage the nodes from misbe-
having or launching attacks by modeling the behavior patterns
of the nodes in blockchain networks. Specifically, the evolu-
tionary game is often applied to describe the dynamic evo-
lution of pool selection strategies which are used against the
miner dilemma problem and block withholding attack [113],
[114], [115]. The non-cooperative game and Stackelberg game
are applied to model the stakeholder interactions to avoid
double-spending attacks [116], [117]. Besides, contract the-
ory enables the exploration of the balance between security
and economic incentives [118].
3) Resource Allocation: Game theory can be applied to
develop resource allocation strategies that motivate partici-
pants to share resources since each participant in the resource
allocation process is rational and self-interested in attempting
to maximize its own benefits. For example, the Stackelberg
game enables the description of the interactions between
resource sellers and buyers and maximizes the revenue for
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
366 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
Fig. 9. A Non-cooperative game framework for the mining process.
both parties in blockchain-based networks [119], while the
non-cooperative game and stochastic game perform resource
allocation by analyzing the behavior patterns of participants
[120], [121].
B. Model Briefs
Considering the malicious characteristic, a miner launches
an attack to increase his/her own winning probability while
unfairly reducing the wining probability of others. In fact,
any selfish and rational miner would like to maximize its
own overall reward, which is determined by the environment
feedbacks, cost and successful attacking probability simultane-
ously. Therefore, a miner must consider all possible re-actions
of others to choose the strategy that is most beneficial to itself
in this typical non-cooperative game. Therefore, the miner can
be treated as the player, its strategy is whether to launch an
attacking, and the reward function is the expected reward if the
attacking succeeds minus the cost for attacking. In this man-
ner, we can formulate this mining process as a game shown in
Fig. 9, to study the impact of miners’ strategies (to be honest
or malicious) on the blockchain network. Based on the analy-
sis and equilibrium solution, a game model can be employed
and to provide a theoretical guidance to optimize the con-
sensus process in order to improve the security (refrain from
launching the attacking action).
During the mining process, a miner should allocate cer-
tain amount of computing resources to increase the wining
probability to get the right that generates a new block with cor-
responding reward. Meanwhile, the more computing resources
consumed, the higher cost would be generated. It means there
is an effective trade-off between cost and benefit needs to be
made. Accordingly, this problem can be also formulated as
a game to study the interaction among miners and analyze
the best strategy. For instance, game theory is often used to
study equilibrium-based strategy, which guarantees the optimal
reward of each miner while avoiding the meaningless mining
competition caused by greedy resource allocation. Fig. 10 is a
game theory model based on auction, the miners will bid for
the computing resource, and the computing service providers
Fig. 10. A auction-based non-cooperative game model for computing
resource allocation.
Fig. 11. A MEC-based non-cooperative game for mining strategy.
will provide different computing resource. The more bid, the
more resource. Therefore, the miner need to balance the cost
and revenue.
Using MEC in blockchain networks, the miner can offload
its mining task to edge server, which can solve the limi-
tation of computing resource of blockchain users to extend
the blockchain application in wireless scenarios effectively.
To encourage the miner to offload reasonably and motivate
edge server to process effectively, the miner should pay an
amount of payment to edge server for offloading. As shown
in Fig. 11, the miners will offload some mining task to mobile
edge. The more computing resource the miner buy, the greater
the probability of successfully minings. Stackelberg game can
be employed based on the concerning of resource allocation
as mentioned above. If addressing the mining task assign-
ment (the association between edge server and miner), auction
model is a common approach.
C. Case Study
In this section, we will use our previous work [122] as
an example to introduce how to motivate honest actions of
participants in blockchain-based scenarios.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 367
Fig. 12. The explanation of the case study in Game Theory [122].
In the typical MEC enabled WBN, controlled by the
MEC manager, edge servers are just treated as network
resources providers, including computational resources and
storage resources. However, the MEC server manager may
become a central node that is independent of the blockchain
system, thereby undermining the distributed nature of the
blockchain system and further damaging its security. To this
end, in this example, the underlying P2P network consists of
edge servers, who are treated as blockchain miners, undertak-
ing blockchain functionality operations and earning transaction
fees, while IoT devices are treated as blockchain users offload-
ing transactions to blockchain with specified transaction rate
requirements. As shown in Fig. 12, the blockchain users sub-
mit transactions to blockchain miners, and then the blockchain
miners execute the mining task and successfully generate a
block. Finally, it will be added to the local ledger and broad-
cast to peers and this operations will also be performed by
other blockchain miners once they have verified it as a valid
block.
For blockchain users, the utility includes the satisfaction
degree and incentive cost, i.e., the transaction fee. Thus, in
order to maximize the utility by requiring considerable transac-
tion rate γj , the optimization problem for fj can be formulated
as
max
γj
Ufj = Sfj (γj )− Cfj (γj )
s .t .
N∑
j=1
γj ≤ Γmax , (4)
where Sfj (γj ) is the satisfaction degree, Cfj (γj ) is the
transaction fees and Γmax is the maximum transaction rate
blockchain system can afford.
For blockchain miners, the utility is defined as charged
transaction fees minus computational resources consumption.
Thus, to maximize their revenue, the optimization problem can
be expressed as
max
β
Ul = Sl
⎛
⎝ N∑
j=1
γj , β
⎞
⎠− Cl
⎛
⎝ N∑
j=1
γj
⎞
⎠, (5)
where N is the number of blockchain users, Sl (
∑N
j=1 γj , β)
is the earning by publishing
∑N
j=1 γj transactions per hour
and Cl (
∑N
j=1 γj ) is the corresponding cost of resources
consumption.
With blockchain miners acting as the leader while
blockchain users acting as followers, a single-leader-multiple-
followers Stackelberg game can be used to model interaction
between them. Based on the Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT)
conditions and backward induction method, a distributed algo-
rithm can be designed to reach the optimal strategy (β∗, γ∗j )
in an iterative manner.
D. Related Work
1) Existing Surveys and Tutorials: Mkiramweni et al.
in [123] provide a comprehensive review of game theory in
unmanned aerial vehicle-based wireless networks. This work
starts with an introduction to the basics of game theory and its
relation to wireless networks. It then provides an overview of
the contributions of game theory in addressing the challenges
of UAVs, in terms of resource optimization, interference man-
agement, and network security. Pawlick et al. in [124] review
the contributions of game theory in dealing with deception.
Specifically, this work outlines the classical game-theoretic
models used to study cybersecurity and privacy. The focus is
placed on game-theoretic models applied in deception defense
and shows how game-theoretic concepts capture the intrinsic
differences in various deceptions. Mao et al. in [125] present a
detailed survey on the application of repeated games in differ-
ent wireless networks. This work classifies the applications of
repeated games in wireless networks based on network mod-
els. For each classification, it summarizes the contributions
of repeated games in solving the major problems, including
multiple access control and security for cellular and wireless
local area network, energy consumption for Wireless Ad-hoc
Networks, spectrum trading for cognitive radio networks.
In the domain of combining game theory and blockchain,
Liu et al. in [33] give a comprehensive survey of game models
applied to tackle important issues in blockchain. In particular,
this work reviews and studies game models from three aspects:
security, mining management, and blockchain applications.
The security issue is further divided into selfish mining, most
attacks and denial of service attacks. The mining management
issue includes computational power allocation, reward distri-
bution and pool selection. The blockchain application issue
involves blockchain economy and energy trading.
2) Mining Pool Management: Game theory has been
widely used for mining pool management. In [115], Liu et al.
use an evolutionary game to describe the dynamic evolution
of pool selection strategies for individual miners, analyze the
evolution of the mining pool selection strategy considering
the hash rate, and the broadcast delay of the block. In [126],
Li et al. define the mining as a non-priority queuing problem
that is determined entirely by transaction fee, and propose a
transaction queuing game model to study the role of transac-
tion fee in the consensus process. Based on this model, the
authors analyze the relationship between the mining reward
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
368 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
and the time cost, and prove the existence of Nash equilib-
rium. In order to improve the mining rate, the authors in [114]
and [127] formulate the mining process in a PoW-based
blockchain as iterative game, and apply the zero-determinant
strategy to optimize the mining strategy in order to solve the
miners’ dilemma problem. Jiang and Wu in [128] define and
analyze the block size game to explore the relation between the
miner’s payoff and block sizes. Taghizadeh et al. in [129] first
adopt a non-cooperative game to formulate the mining com-
petition among the players in a blockchain network, and then
the mean field game theory is applied to perform equilibrium
analysis of mining games in blockchain networks. Chen et al.
in [130] derive a mathematical model to describe the impact
of computing power competition among mining pools on the
temporary fork. Moreover, this work designs an evolutionary
game framework based on temporary fork modeling to reveal
the long-term trend of computing power distribution among
competing pools.
3) Security Strategy: Game theory is also potential to study
the behaviors of blockchain users and the strategies for secu-
rity concerns. Feng et al. in [131] introduce a risk management
framework for blockchain service, and a Stackelberg game
is adopted to describe the interactions among blockchain
providers, network insurance companies and blockchain users.
Based on this game model, the existence and uniqueness of
equilibrium are discussed, and the three-party equilibrium-
based strategy is analyzed to avoid the double-spending
attacking. Kim and Hahn in [132] use the evolutionary game
to study the dynamics of mining pool strategy, in which the
pool can choose some participating miners to infiltrate into
other pools to launch a block withholding attack. Based on the
formulated model, the authors qualitatively analyzed the influ-
ence of malicious infiltrators on mining pool strategy and the
feasibility of automatic migration among pools. Li and Jiang
in [133] obtain the security conditions to achieve the design
purpose of the Paxos mechanism (each node adheres to the
cooperative strategy) by solving the perfect Nash equilibrium
solution of each subgame in the game. Li et al. in [118] inves-
tigate the balance between security incentives and economic
incentives in blockchain networks based on contract theory.
4) Resource Management: In order to study the issues
of resource management and pricing between cloud com-
puting providers and miners, Yao et al. in [134] propose a
multi-agent reinforcement learning algorithm to find the Nash
equilibrium of the proposed model, and prove that the Nash
equilibrium point of service demand in the system is related
to the expected reward of each miner. Jiao et al. in [135]
propose an auction-based model to study the interaction
between miners and edge service providers, and analyze
the allocation and pricing of edge computing resource in
the blockchain network. Considering the reward of service
providers, Luong et al. in [136] propose an optimal auction
model using deep learning to solve service providers reward
and resource management issues. Xu et al. in [137] study the
security issues in blockchain edge networks using the game
theory as well. In this work, a penalty scheme based on behav-
ioral records is designed considering the conditions of Nash
equilibriums.
Stackelberg game is a strategic game where both the leaders
and the followers are typically rational and aim to maximize
their own utilities. It is used to model the interaction between
resource buyers and sellers. Xiong et al. formulate a two-
stage Stackelberg game model for efficient edge resource
management in mobile blockchain in [138], and a Stackelberg
game formulation for price-based computing resource manage-
ment in blockchain networks assisted by cloud/fog computing
in [139]. Kang et al. in [140] use the Stackelberg game to
jointly maximize the utility of blockchain users and the indi-
vidual profit of miners, to incentivize miners to take part
in mined block propagation to decrease consensus propaga-
tion delay. Besides, Qiu et al. in [141] adopt a consortium
blockchain to the facilitate secure and reliable spectrum
trading between mobile network operator (MNO) and UAV
operators, where the Stackelberg game is used to solve the
utility optimization problem for the MNOs and UAV oper-
ators. Guo et al. in [142] formulate the resource allocation
problem in a collaborative mining network as a double auc-
tion game, and take Stackelberg game model to obtain the
optimal price and resource allocation method.
E. Lessons Learned
As an analysis tool, game theory is widely used to
study security, mining, and resource allocation problems in
blockchain networks. A game model can be built by captur-
ing the characteristic of the addressed problem in terms of
the role of blockchain users, behavior of blockchain decision-
maker and the performance of blockchain system. Thus, the
game modling can help researchers understand the impact of
different strategy and analyze the optimal strategy based on
the equilibrium solution.
Meanwhile, some problems are still remaining to be
addressed as follows.
1) To achieve the equilibrium solution, multi-round iter-
ations in game theory are needed usually. However,
the communication delay caused by the multi-round
iterations, would generate a significant impact on the
performance and the security of blockchain system.
Therefore, it is necessary to consider communication
resources consumption in the game process and develop
a lightweight game theory mechanism.
2) Rationality and selfishness are the basic assumptions
in game theory. However, these assumptions might be
invalid especially for the malicious attacker, whose pur-
pose is to launch an attacking to ruin the blockchain
system regardless of the cost. Therefore, understand-
ing and studying this extremely malicious behavior is
of great significance for improving security and privacy.
V. OPTIMIZATION THEORY IN BLOCKCHAIN
Optimization theory [143], [144] is a well-known computa-
tional tool to solve theoretical analysis and practical engineer-
ing issues. Generally, the goal of the optimization theory is to
make the best decisions under some constraints. As a subfield
of optimization theory, convex optimization [143] has been
widely investigated and applied. Since lots of optimization
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 369
problems can be transformed into a convex optimization,
this section mainly focuses on the applications of convex
optimization in blockchain. In addition, because optimization
problems in the large-scale and complicated network environ-
ments are usually nonconvex, convex optimization can also
be effectively applied by relaxing or/and approximating some
nonconvex conditions.
A basic form of convex optimization can be regarded as a
constrained optimization problem, which can be formulated as
min
x
f (x )
s .t .
{
gi (x ) ≤ 0, i = 1, . . . ,m,
hj (x ) = 0, j = 1, . . . , p,
(6)
where the objective function f (x) and the inequality con-
strained function g(x) are convex functions on Rn , and the
equality constraint function hi (x ) = aTi x − bi must be affine.
A. Classical Issues
In this section, we summarize classical issues in blockchain
networks that could be solved by optimization theory.
1) Security Enhancement: The design of security strate-
gies can be performed by solving optimization problems
that are related to the corresponding security metrics.
Various optimization methods are applied to solve differ-
ent optimization problems, such as the alternating direction
method of multipliers (ADMM) for optimization problems
with linear constraints [145], [146], the adaptive moment esti-
mation (Adam) for non-convex optimization problems with
large data sets and high dimensional space [147], and the
adaptive gradient algorithm (AdaGra) for sparse gradient prob-
lems [148]. Besides, Optimization theory with dynamic reward
and punishment mechanisms can also be utilized to avoid
malicious node aggregation.
2) Resource Allocation: Resource allocation strategies can
be improved by using optimization theory to quantify the
relationship among essential factors in blockchain networks.
Specifically, an optimization problem that describes the rela-
tionship between the optimization objectives and constraints
can be formulated by abstracting the factors that affect
resource allocation. Then, the optimal allocation strategy can
be obtained by solving the optimization problem with the
corresponding methods.
B. Model Briefs
As well known, the mining reward for miners is an
important factor to encourage the contribution of computing
resource. Optimization theory provides solutions for mining
management by maximizing the reward and promoting the
accomplish of the consensus process. In order to increase the
successful mining probability, miners usually choose to join
the mining pool. Generally, as long as any miner in the pool
succeeds in mining, the mining reward will be distributed to
each miner in the pool. Different mining pools may adopt
different reward mechanisms. Therefore, the miner should con-
sider how to choose the optimal pool selection strategy to
maximize its reward, and this problem can be transformed into
a mathematical optimization problem. For this optimization
Fig. 13. The explaination of BWH attack.
problem, the mining reward obtained by miners under dif-
ferent reward mechanisms can be formulated as the objective
function, the variable is the miner’s pool selection strategy, and
the constraints are determined by the actual situation. Through
this mining pool selection optimization problem, we can study
the impact of different reward mechanisms on the blockchain
network in term of the objective function, and determine the
optimal selection under the constraints.
When miners join the mining pool and cooperate with oth-
ers, the competition among miners becomes the competition
among the mining pools. In order to win for mining reward,
some mining pools may choose to take the Block Withholding
(BWH) attacking on other mining pools. As shown in Fig. 13,
the pool A will allocate a part of computing power α to another
pool B for attacking. The greater computing power consumed
by the attacker, the greater the malicious impact on other pools
would be happened. The malicious impacts would decline the
computing power for consensus and is costly to the attacker
itself. As a result, the attacker should choose the optimal com-
puting power for attacking, which can be considered as an
optimization problem. In this case, the objective function is
to maximize the mining reward as well as successful attack-
ing probability with the computing power for attacking as the
variable. Through the optimization analysis, we can know the
optimal attacking strategy, which is the baseline to analyze
and design the consensus process for security based on the
understanding the malicious action of the attacker.
As discussed before, mining task offloading from the miners
to the edge servers can be also formulated as an optimization
problem with resource allocation. In this case, the miner
should choose an appropriate offloading strategy to determine
whether to offload, or to which edge server to offload, and how
many resources (computing, communication and cache) the
edge server allocates to the offloading task. Using this optimal
offloading formulation, we can analyze the impact of the
offloading on the performance and security of the blockchain
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
370 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
Fig. 14. The simplified procedure for transaction relaying and block
verification [149].
network, and the optimal solution is to provide a theoretical
guidance for the blockchain development and application.
C. Case Study
In this section, we use the previous work [149] as an exam-
ple to introduce how to perform optimization in blockchain.
In this work, to improve the security and privacy of D2D
(device to device) communication, the authors introduce a
new distributed and secure data sharing framework called D2D
blockchain. The simplified procedure for transaction relaying
and block verification is shown in Fig. 14. In this framework,
the authors deploy a series of Access Point (APs) to incentivize
the transaction relay and block verification using DPoS-Based
Lightweight Block Verification Scheme. Therefore, an impor-
tant problem for AP is that how to improve the efficiency of
transaction relaying and DPoS based block verification, while
the payment (cost) is small.
In this work, a two-stage contract theory based on joint
optimization scheme is proposed, where the AP serves as an
employer who designs all kinds of contracts, pays rewards for
employees, relays devices, and verifiers serve as employees.
Relay devices should consider their battery energy, resource of
occupied bandwidth, etc., and verifiers should consider their
CPU cycles, energy consumption, etc. In order to maximize
the expected utility of AP while satisfying the individual ratio-
nality and the incentive compatible constraints for transaction
relaying and block verification, the objective function in the
optimization problem is formulated as
max
RTR,s ,VTR,s
RBV ,q ,VBV ,q
UAP = VR − RR + VV − RV
s .t . {a, b, c, d , e}, (7)
where the limiting conditions {a, b, c, d , e} are respectively
expressed as
(a) For each relay device, the reward paid from AP should
be not less than its cost due to the rationality.
(b) Similarly, for each verifier, the reward paid from AP
should be not less than its cost due to the rationality.
(c) AP needs to design the contract for the relay device or
verifier flexibly according to their corresponding types.
(d) Similarly, AP needs design the contract for the verifier
flexibly according to their corresponding types.
(e) For AP, the reward paid to relay devices and verifiers
must be reasonable following a limitation.
Here RTR,s and RBV ,q are relay fee to type-s relay device
and transaction fee to type-q verifier, respectively. VTR,s and
VBV ,q present the required value of transaction relaying and
block verification, respectively. VR is the whole value of trans-
action relaying created by all the relay devices, and RR is the
whole payment from AP to relay devices. Similarly, VV is the
whole value of block verification created by all the verifiers,
and RV is the whole payment from AP to verifiers.
However, to solve the optimization problem in a practical
system, the constraint conditions often are set to non-convex,
and thus (7) cannot be solved directly. By reducing some
constraints, this optimization problem can be transferred into
a convex problem. Finally, the optimal solution is the best
strategy for transaction relaying and block verification, which
can maximize the utility of AP while incentivizing the relay
devices and block verifiers to accomplish their tasks optimally.
D. Related Works
1) Existing Surveys and Tutorials: Sun et al. in [150] sum-
marize the optimization problems and classical optimization
methods. This work first details the underlying theory of
optimization methods while introducing the research progress
of optimization algorithms in recent years. Then, application of
optimization methods are discussed, and some approaches to
improve their performance are presented. Integrating ensem-
ble strategies into population-based optimization algorithms
(POAs) can ease computationally intensive offline tuning for
a given optimization problem. Therefore, Wu et al. in [151]
review the application of ensemble strategies to POAs, as well
as discuss other similar schemes. Molzahn et al. in [152]
first summarize distributed algorithms for offline solution
of the optimal power flow (OPF) problem, and then out-
line the applications of offline distributed optimization and
control algorithms in power systems. In addition, this work
presents an overview of the progress of online optimization
and control algorithms, such as real-time solving OPF and
optimal frequency control. Yang et al. in [153] bring a sur-
vey of distributed optimization algorithms. This work starts
with outlining discrete-time and continuous-time distributed
optimization algorithms for undirected graphs. Then potential
options for extending these algorithms in different direc-
tions are discussed. In addition, the application of distributed
optimization to the optimal coordination of distributed energy
sources is emphasized. Those efforts can also provide a
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 371
reference for applying optimization theory in blockchain with
distributed properties.
2) Security: As one of the most important issue in
blockchain, the security topic has been widely formulated
as an optimization problem. Onireti et al. in [154] propose
a practical modeling framework for PBFT, and the viable
area for the wireless PBFT network is defined to ensure the
minimum number of replication nodes required for protocol
security and activity. Considering the secured communica-
tion and data sharing between vehicles, Kang et al. in [155]
propose a two-stage security enhancement solution to solve
collusion attacks in IoV. In the first stage, the system selects
active miners and standby miners (candidates) based on repu-
tation voting. Hence, the active miners selected get the chance
to generate block. In the second stage, standby miners will
verify the block generated by active miners. Therefore, the
internal collusion among active miners is avoided. However,
how to incentivize the standby miners to participate is an
important problem, which is solved using contract theory.
Saad et al. in [156] model the malicious behavior as a
Lyapunov optimization problem. Then they study how attacker
uses the impact of memory pool overflow on blockchain users
to launch an DDoS attacking. To prevent DDoS attacks, the
authors propose two effective countermeasures: fee-based and
age-based design. The core of the fee-based design is to con-
duct transaction relay with minimum relay fee to reject spam
transactions. Similarly, the core of the age-based design is
to compare transaction mining fee and minimum mining fee.
While spam transactions are rejected, the DDoS attacks are
also resolved. Sharding mechanism is an effective way to
enhance the scalability of blockchain, but also its security
remains a debatable issue. Cai et al. in [157] design a multi-
objective optimization algorithm based on a dynamic reward
and punishment mechanism to hinder malicious node aggre-
gation, thus improving blockchain sharding security. Although
permissioned blockchains are conducive to the rapid imple-
mentation of the consensus mechanism, pre-selected miners
are susceptible to arbitrary manipulation by attackers and
might become compromised miners. Therefore, Kang et al.
in [158] present a universal credit-based secure miner selec-
tion scheme to prevent compromised and misbehaved miners
from participating in the consensus process.
3) Resource Allocation: Considering the high-resource
consumption, MEC is a nature design for the blockchain-
enabled wireless networks. Wu et al. in [159] convert the com-
puting resource allocation problem in multi-access MEC-based
blockchain into a mathematical form of joint optimization
problem. To maximize the total revenue of the mobile ter-
minals while ensuring the fairness of the mobile terminals,
they consider two different scenarios, namely a single-edge-
server scenario and a multi-edge-servers scenario. For the two
scenarios, the authors propose two layered algorithms to solve
the non-convex optimization problem above. Fu et al. in [160]
study the issue of joint resource allocation in blockchain-
based IoT systems. To maximize the system energy-efficiency,
the authors use stochastic programming to solve the joint
optimization problem above. Wang et al. in [161] design a
blockchain-based framework for mobile device cloud (MDC),
which enable the decentralization and prevented dishonesty
by incorporating a plasma-based blockchain into the MDC.
Different smart contracts are designed for distributed manage-
ment of worker registration, task allocation, rewards and penal-
ties. Xiong et al. in [162] adopt ADMM algorithm to search
the optimal solution for the benefit of miners and cloud/edge
providers. In terms of sharding cache system optimization,
Saino et al. in [163] focus on two important metrics, load bal-
ancing and caching performance, in a sharding system. This
work first studies the factors that cause load imbalance in a
sharding system and then analyzes how sharding affects cache
hit performance. Based on those research results, the sliced
system’s load balancing and cache performance are investi-
gated to reveal the operational characteristics of the sliced
cache system.
4) Optimal Algorithm and Strategy Design: The
optimization problem can be also used to describe vari-
ous purposes in blockchain system. Zhang et al. in [164]
study the routing issue in a blockchain-based payment channel
network. The authors analyze the payment routing problem
using the convex optimization method. While considering
the constraints of timeliness and feasibility, the authors
propose a distributed optimization scheme to achieve the
lowest total transaction costs from the sender to the receiver.
Applying the consortium blockchain technology to electric
taxi charging scenarios with multiple operators, Jin et al.
in [165] propose a new Byzantine fault tolerance algorithm
to address the problem of trust among operators of charging
stations. In addition, this work designs a system model
based on multi-objective optimization to maximize operating
efficiency and customer satisfaction while minimizing the
time and distance costs of electric taxis. Zhu et al. in [166]
propose EdgeChain, a blockchain-based architecture to make
mobile edge application placement decisions for multiple
service providers. Blockchain is used to store all placement
transactions, which can be traceable by every mobile edge
service providers and application vendors who consume
resources at the mobile edge.
E. Lessons Learned
For blockchain system, the mathematical optimization tool
is typically introduced to find the best pool selection strategy
for miners to determine the best task offloading strategy, and
to allocate resource for consensus process. Although existing
researches show that the optimization theory can achieve the
better system performance and security, some problems should
be further studied in the future.
1) The optimization problem and corresponding solution
are usually for a specific situation in static or semi-
static state. However, the practical blockchain system
is dynamic and stochastic with some important param-
eters and constraints that are uncertain and might be
changed over time and space. Therefore, these uncer-
tainties should be further considered in optimization
formulation.
2) Due to the complexity of blockchain system, the solu-
tion to the formulated optimization problem might be
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
372 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
challenging. For example, the original problem should
be transformed into a standard convex problem, decom-
posed into multi-subproblem, or design an iterative
approach to achieve a sub-optimal solution instead of
the optimal one. Therefore, in such scenarios, how to
balance the accurate description of dynamic states and
performance (like quality, convergence speed and over-
head) of obtained results should be further considered.
In another word, some basic assumptions and simplifi-
cations with some typical mathematical properties are
necessary especially for problem formulation and anal-
ysis, but they cannot describe the actual blockchain
system accurately.
VI. MACHINE LEARNING IN BLOCKCHAIN
Machine learning [167], [168] is a method of design-
ing and analyzing algorithm to “learn” automatically, which
allows computers to analyze from a large amount of data,
find out the hidden laws for prediction or classification based
on characteristics of data. Machine learning usually involves
the algorithms of supervised learning [169], unsupervised
learning and reinforcement learning [170], and the models
of Surport Vector Machine (SVM) [171], Random Forest
(RF) [172] and Deep Learning (DL) [173], [174]. Those mod-
els and algorithms mentioned above are widely used in the
analysis, prediction, and optimization of communications and
networking. Supervised learning is to train labeled data and
analyze the training data to solve classification and regres-
sion problems. In contrast, unsupervised learning trains data
with no labels to achieve clustering or dimensionality reduc-
tion by finding similarities or internal relationships in the
data. Different from supervised/unsupervised learning, rein-
forcement learning is mainly used to solve decision-making
problems in a trial-and-error process based on the interaction
and feedback between the agent and environment. SVM dis-
criminates two classes by fitting an optimal linear separating
hyperplane to the training samples of two classes in a multi-
dimensional feature space [175]. Random forest is a more
accurate and stable model obtained by building multiple deci-
sion trees and fusing them together, with the advantage of high
accuracy and efficient operation [176], which is suitable for
the case of non-differentiable model with discrete features and
limited values. Deep learning allows computational models
that are composed of multiple processing layers to learn rep-
resentations of data with multiple levels of abstraction [177].
It involves AtuoEncode, Variational Auto-Encoder and
Generative Adversarial Network based on unsupervised learn-
ing, Deep Neural Networks, Convolutional Neural Networks
(CNN), and Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN) based on
supervised learning [178]. It is based on basic features and
uses multi-layer activation functions to learn high-dimensional
nonlinear features, including CNN networks suitable for image
domains, RNN networks suitable for time series and WiDE
& Deep networks suitable for recommendation domains,
etc [179].
Fig. 15. Using machine learning to recognize the type of blockchain nodes.
A. Classical Issues
The combination of blockchain and machine learning is
a promising approach to achieving decentralized, secure,
intelligent, and efficient network operation and management.
Machine learning is a powerful tool for blockchain to han-
dle huge amounts of data and various types of transactions.
Here, we classify the contributions of machine learning to
blockchain in the following categories.
1) Security Enhancement: Machine learning can provide
blockchain with intelligent means of detecting anomalies.
In particular, machine learning can be applied to identify
attack types and malicious nodes by monitoring and classi-
fying the motives of participants, thus effectively preventing
attacks [180], [181], [182], [183].
2) Performance Improvement: Machine learning empow-
ers the blockchain efficiency and stability more brilliantly for
resource allocation, block size setting, and transaction schedul-
ing through efficient and fast Besides, a viable approach can
be provided by machine learning for adaptive consensus mech-
anism selection in specific application environment due to its
speedy computation and prediction.
B. Model Briefs
In recent years, machine learning has been widely used
in pattern recognition [184], data mining [185], etc., due to
its capabilities in data management, analysis, and decision-
making. In blockchain, machine learning can provide an effi-
cient and intelligent approach to discover the malicious action
and recognize the attacks to guarantee the data reliability,
system security and user privacy.
Malicious attackers can launch double-spending attack-
ing [186], denial of service attacking, and eclipse attacking
on the blockchain network, which will cause the deteriorated
security risk. In recent years, machine learning is introduced
in blockchain to solve security problems. By using unsu-
pervised/supervised learning algorithms such as the K-means
algorithm and supervised SVM, we can monitor the trans-
action in consensus process and the behavior of blockchain
users [187]. Accordingly, as shown in Fig. 15, we can learn
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 373
Fig. 16. The explaination of the interaction and feedback between agent and
environment in a machine learning manner.
the characteristic of both honest and malicious actions, iden-
tify suspicious transaction, and malicious attacker or illegal
activity in the network, which can reduce the possibility of
successful attacks.
Nowadays, the resource consumption is an barrier for
blockchain applications, especially in the case which is
resource-limited such as the IoT device in the wireless
network [14]. Therefore, it is necessary to consider the energy-
saving in mechanism design and resource allocation. To
develop an optimal strategy, we can define the state space s(t),
the action space a(t), and the reward function r(t) to represent
the agent, environment, and the feedback between them in a
machine learning manner [188]. The interaction among s(t),
a(t) and r(t) is shown in Fig. 16. In a real environmental trans-
formation, the probability of going to the next state s(t + 1),
is related to both the current state s(t) and the previous state
s(t − 1), occasionally related to even earlier state s(t − 2),
so that the environmental transformation model may be too
complex to model. Therefore, the way to simplify the envi-
ronmental transformation model of reinforcement learning is
to assume the markov property of state transformation: the
probability of transformation to the next state s(t + 1) is
only related to the current state s(t), and has nothing to do
with the previous state [189]. Accordingly, to maximize the
long-term reward, the optimal strategy determination consid-
ering the interaction and feedback over time can be treated
as a Markov decision process, and it is able to be achieved
using reinforcement learning or deep reinforcement learning
algorithms.
In addition, blockchain is a potential solution to the prob-
lems in machine learning. Most typically, the decentralized
feature of blockchain can be used to solve the problem of sin-
gle point of failure caused by aggregating machine learning
models using centralized servers.
C. Case Study
In this section, the previous work [190] is used as an exam-
ple to illustrate the benefits of the combination of blockchain
and machine learning.
FL as a promising training paradigm, was proposed by
Google to tackle the privacy and security problems of cen-
tralized machine learning and to alleviate the communication
load of the core network [191], [192]. As shown in Fig. 17
(a), many devices collaborate in solving a machine learning
problem by updating the local model with their own local data,
under the coordination of the centralized FL server. However,
the traditional FL, which relies on a centralized FL server for
Fig. 17. (a) The structure of traditional FL; (b) The structure of the proposed
BlockFL [190].
model aggregation is vulnerable to experience service paral-
ysis even when a single point of failure happens. All local
models updated from devices will be distorted by the inac-
curate global model aggregated at the FL server. In addition,
for some devices with massive amounts of data, if there is
no credible incentive mechanism, they are usually unwilling
to participate in training, which brings great challenge to the
rapid convergence of the FL model.
To address the problems mentioned above, H. Kim proposed
a blockchained FL (BlockFL) architecture, which is shown in
Fig. 17 (b). With the distributed and non-tamperable charac-
teristics of the blockchain, the use of a blockchain network
instead of the centralized FL server can effectively over-
come the issue of single point failure. The model parameters
uploaded by the devices are taken as the transactions, and
will be recorded in the candidate block after being verified
by the associated miner. After all miners reached a consensus,
devices can obtain the latest global model by aggregating the
local model updates contained in the newly generated block
downloaded from the associated miner. Generally, the global
model is aggregated anywhere as long as the latest block can
be obtained. In addition, the data reward for devices will be
issued by the associated miner according to the size of the
device data sample; the mining reward for miners will be
issued by the blockchain network according to the total volume
of data used by the connected devices. With the reasonable
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
374 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
incentives, the blockchain-based FL can be positively driven
for efficient training.
Due to the decentralized architecture of BlockFL, the mal-
function of each miner only distorts the global model of its
own devices instead of paralyzing the entire system. Moreover,
such distortion can be recovered by interaction with other reg-
ular miners or federating with other devices associated with
regular miners. Besides, by optimizing the block generation
rate, the time for BlockFL to complete the model training
can be reduced and the performance of the system can be
improved.
D. Related Works
1) Existing Surveys and Tutorials: Baltrušaitis et al.
in [193] review research advances in multimodal machine
learning in terms of the core technical challenges of
multimodal machine learning. Olowononi et al. in [194] inves-
tigate the applications of resilient machine learning in resilient
cyber-physical systems. This article focuses on the vital role
of machine learning in enhancing the security and resilience of
information-physical systems, especially adversarial machine
learning. In addition, common machine-learning methods, as
well as their application scenarios, are presented. Luong et al.
outline deep reinforcement learning in communications and
networking in [195]. This article begins by providing a con-
cise tutorial on deep reinforcement learning. In contrast,
Bout et al. in [196] do not focus on the contribution of
machine learning in enhancing system security schemes, but
on machine learning-based intelligent attack schemes, espe-
cially in the IoT scenario. Attacks constructed based on
different machine learning methods are reviewed. Based on
this, future research directions are presented in terms of jam-
ming, adversarial machine learning attacks, side channels, and
false data injection.
For the integration of blockchain and machine learning,
Wu et al. in [197] give an overview of the application
of blockchain and machine learning in the industrial IoT
regarding consensus mechanisms, storage, and communica-
tion. Importantly, this work provides a more in-depth insight
into blockchain security and privacy risks from a machine
learning perspective. Dibaei et al. in [198] present a survey
to explore how the combination of blockchain and machine
learning can improve the performance of vehicular networks.
It investigates the contribution of using blockchain technol-
ogy to enhance the security of vehicular networks, such as
secure data storage, transmission, and secure access mecha-
nism design. In addition, this work discusses machine learning
methods for vehicular networks in terms of the application,
topology and technical dimensions. Nguyen et al. in [199]
review the fundamentals of federated learning and blockchain,
as well as discuss the potential of blockchain-based federated
learning in MEC networks, such as edge data sharing, edge
content caching and edge crowdsensing. Especially this survey
identifies the crucial issues in the integrated design of FL and
blockchain, including resource allocation, security and privacy
protection, communication cost, etc.
2) Security: Due to the capability of learning, analyzing
and classifying, machine learning is used to monitor behaviors
and to detect the malicious attack for the blockchain secu-
rity. Dey et al. in [187] combine machine learning and game
theory to solve the majority-attack problem. In this work,
the activities of attackers and participants in the network are
monitored to judge and classify both participants’ motivation
and the service value in transactions, and then detect network
anomalies. Therefore, the probability of majority-attack will be
reduced. Tang et al. in [200] introduce a deep learning-based
algorithm to identify and classify malicious nodes by classify-
ing behavior patterns in the network. The proposed algorithm
can reduce the probability of the blockchain network being
attacked by malicious nodes. In order to detect anomalies
(such as DDoS, double-spending and denial-of-service attacks)
in electronic transactions of Bitcoin, Sayadi et al. in [201]
propose an anomaly detection model based on machine learn-
ing. Experimental results show that the proposed model can
accurately identify the types of attacks, and can provide the
theoretical guidance to improve the security of the electronic
trading system based on Bitcoin. Thai et al. in [202] focus
particularly on the anomaly detection to the Bitcoin transac-
tion network, with the goal of detecting suspicious users and
transactions. Shin et al. in [203] propose a clustering method
for bitcoin block and transaction data analysis, which defines
the data that can be collected from the Bitcoin network, and
the statistics of the blocks that can be extracted from the
collected data. In addition, this work performs a clustering
experiment by applying Principal Component Analysis (PCA)
to the extracted data, and also testes how to apply PCA to
the clustering data. Khan et al. in [204] propose a blockchain-
based deep extreme learning machine to implement intrusion
identification and prediction. This lightweight algorithm is effi-
cient and adapts to the power and processing limitations of
smart home devices. Liu et al. in [205] propose a collabo-
rative intrusion detection mechanism based on distributed FL
and blockchain. In this work, distributed FL is employed to
reduce the single point of failure probability and enhance user
data privacy, while blockchain guarantees the security of the
training model.
3) Performance Improvement: Machine learning is widely
used for performance improvement of the blockchain systems.
To meet the great demand of the blockchain, the solution need
to be found for the scalability problem. Nowadays, shard-
ing method is found to resolve the scalability problem of the
blockchain. Bugday et al. in [206] propose a method which
uses adaptive machine learning model and Verifiable Random
Functions together to assign nodes to achieve shards. As shard-
ing method solves the scalability problem, the performance of
the blockchain is improved. In order to optimize the system
performance of the blockchain-based IoV, Liu et al. in [207]
use deep reinforcement learning to select the consensus algo-
rithm and the block generated nodes, as well as adjust the
block size and the interval between block generations. The
solution proposed can be applied to the dynamic IoV sce-
nario, and it can maximize the system throughput without
affecting the system’s decentralization, latency and security.
Hao et al. in [39] establish a trust-enhanced blockchain P2P
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 375
topology (BlockP2P-EP) that considers the transmission rate
and transmission reliability to improve the performance of the
blockchain network in achieving fast and reliable broadcasting.
BlockP2P-EP first uses K-means to cluster neighboring peer
nodes. Then on top of the trust-enhanced blockchain topology,
BlockP2P-EP executes the parallel spanning tree broadcasting
algorithm to achieve fast data broadcasting among nodes in
terms of intra- and inter-clusters.
In addition, machine learning has been applied with
blockchain together to improve communications and
networking, as discussed and analyzed in several forward-
looking works. Hu et al. in [208] propose a novel architecture
for dynamic resource sharing to improve resource utilization,
where blockchain is for system security in a decentralized
manner, and deep reinforcement learning is for improving
the performance of pattern recognition and decision-making.
Kang et al. in [209] integrate federated edge learning with
blockchain to guarantee security and privacy. Especially,
federated edge learning is adopted to collaboratively train
globally shared models without revealing participants’ private
raw data. At the same time, blockchain is employed to store
the training records and manage reputation data to avoid
involving unreliable edge devices in training. Li et al. in [210]
propose a multi-agent deep reinforcement learning method to
improve the long-term performance of computation offloading
in PoW-based blockchain.
4) Application in Vertical Industries: Since data transmis-
sion is affected by dynamics and uncertainties in blockchain-
enabled IoT systems, Xiong et al. in [211] present a learning-
assisted resource allocation method to support intelligent data
transmission. In this work, deep reinforcement learning algo-
rithm is used to directly sample the current and historical
transaction data and output to determine deep-Q network
weights and optimal actions without checking the whole
extensive sets of system states and actions. In order to imple-
ment blockchain technology into IoT fields and achieve the
condition-based management on the blockchain, Idé et al.
in [212] applies blockchain and machine learning into the task
of anomaly detections in the IoT. To ensure the performance
of data aggregation, data storage, and data processing in IoT
services, Luong et al. in [213] use blockchain to support IoT
services which is based on cognitive radio network. To help
IoT devices to choose an optimal transaction transmission
under intricate conditions, the authors get an optimal trans-
action transmission policy for secondary users by adopting
a double deep-Q network algorithm that can allow the sec-
ondary users to learn the optimal policy above. Yao et al.
in [134] introduce blockchain and cloud computing into IoT
to offload computational task from the IIoT network itself.
In order to simultaneously meet the requirements of IIoT
for security and privacy, Qu et al. in [214] leverage feder-
ated learning with privacy protection to break data island and
enhance system security through the decentralized property of
blockchain. He et al. in [215] adopt blockchain to ensure IoT
data security and reliability and use asynchronous advantage
actor critic to solve the problem of multi-user edge resource
allocation with different QoS requirements. To address the
fact that heterogeneity and lack of trust among IoT nodes
hinder the efficiency and security of machine learning results,
Qiu et al. in [216] employ lightweight IoT nodes to train parts
of the learning layer, then sharing the learning results using
blockchain.
5) Application in Smart Grid: To protect the smart grid
from suffering cyber attacks, Ferrag and Maglaras in [217]
propose a deep learning and blockchain-based energy frame-
work, consisting of two schemes: a blockchain based scheme
and a deep learning-based scheme. The blockchain-based
scheme is used to facilitate the exchange of excess energy
among neighboring nodes. The deep learning-based scheme is
used to detect attacks and fraudulent transactions to enhance
the system reliability and security. Jamil et al. in [218] propose
a blockchain-based smart energy trading platform designed
to facilitate peer-to-peer transactions between producers and
consumers. Machine learning is used to implement an energy
prediction analytic module for predicting short-term energy
consumption to minimize the cost of electricity to consumers.
Lalle et al. in [219] employ blockchain and machine learn-
ing to guarantee the data privacy of smart water grid users.
First, k-means++ is used to partition users into clusters, and
then a private blockchain is adopted to store user data of each
cluster.
6) Application in VANETs: For the problem that the data
collected by different entities in the vehicle social network
usually contains very different attributes, Shen et al. in [171]
propose a privacy-preserving SVM classifier training scheme
over vertically-partitioned datasets possessed by multiple data
providers. In addition, consortium blockchain and threshold
homomorphic cryptosystem are used to establish a secure
SVM classifier training platform without a trusted third-party.
To improve the security and reduce the attack in the vehicular
ad hoc networks (VANETs), Dai et al. in [220] propose an
indirect reciprocity security framework. This framework tries
to encourage the On Board Units (OBUs) to help each others
to reduce attacks, and apply the blockchain technique to pro-
tect the reputation from being tampered. Liao et al. in [221]
develop a secure and intelligent task collaboration framework.
In this work, an intelligent task offloading algorithm based
on online learning is designed to minimize the average task
offloading delay and blockchain is used to achieve safe task
offloading.
E. Lessons Learned
A number of works have shown that using machine learning
in both data management and analysis can effectively monitor
and classify the behavior of blockchain users, as well as recog-
nize malicious behavior, suspicious user and illegal activity in
the system, and therefore both reduce the possibility of attacks
and optimize the performance of system. Comparing with the
traditional method of optimization or game theory, machine
learning can adjust its strategy according to the changing
of environment based on the long-term reward maximizing.
However, there are still two existing problems that should be
further investigated.
1) Machine learning is valuable to understand the pro-
cess and behavior in blockchain to optimize system
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
376 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
TABLE IV
REFERENCE CLASSIFICATION ON METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE
performance and security (such as the transaction
processing speed and malicious attack recognition).
However, how to use the ability of machine learning
in management, analysis and prediction to provide an
intelligent guideline for decision-making and mechanism
design is still an open issue.
2) Blockchain has great potential in improving the secu-
rity and credibility of machine learning due to
its decentralized characteristics, especially distributed
machine learning such as FL. However, it is dif-
ficult to handle the large-scale machine learning
tasks due to the huge resource consumption, lim-
ited throughput and high communication complexity.
Therefore, it is necessary to further study how to
break through the limitations in blockchain mentioned-
above, in order to achieve the balance between the
advantages and defects for blockchain in machine
learning.
VII. DISCUSSION AND OPEN ISSUES
For brevity, references supporting the above discussion are
summarized and classified in Table IV. Furthermore, some
remaining problems in terms of cryptography, smart contracts,
blockchain architectures and protocols, commercial and polit-
ical views are still needed to be discussed as open issues and
future work.
A. Cryptography
Cryptography is the basic theory of blockchain and has been
widely used to guarantee the security of transactions and the
privacy of user information. As for the privacy issue caused by
data stored in the blockchain, some schemes can be adopted
involving of public key encryption scheme with keyword
searchable, anonymous digital certificate publishing scheme,
and ZKP. Homomorphic encryption technology enables data
processing security in the blockchain, in the meantime, we
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 377
Fig. 18. Cryptography theory for access control and authentication in
blockchain systems.
Fig. 19. The blockchain-based AD Dissemination framework [225].
can apply cryptography for access control and authentication
in the blockchain systems, such as shown in Fig. 18.
Moreover, several surveys and tutorials have reviewed the
background, application, development and challenges of cryp-
tography [222], [223]. Especially, Q. Feng et al. in [224]
present a concise tutorial on blockchain privacy threats, cryp-
tographic defense mechanisms and typical approaches for
privacy-preserving in blockchain. A previous work [225] intro-
duced the application of cryptography in blockchain, it solves
the vehicle privacy problem of the blockchain-based vehic-
ular networks, by using Zero-knowledge proof of knowledge
(ZKPoK) to propose a new blockchain-based ad dissemination
framework which is shown in Fig. 19.
We further divide most of the existing efforts into 5
categories, including security schemes about hash-based signa-
tures [226], [227] and fork in blockchain [228] , privacy, which
includes user privacy and data privacy [229], [230], [231],
[232], ZKP protocols [233], [234], [235], [236], verification
methods [237], [238], [239] and solutions to nonsupervisabil-
ity [240], [241].
These efforts proposed some key methods which focus on
security and privacy protection in an external manner, and are
to design a powerful wall around the blockchain system to
deny the attacks from malicious users. However, the system
would be vulnerable if any bugs found by the attacker to break.
Therefore, how to empower the security and privacy ability of
blockchain system in a systematic manner providing inherent
safety is still an open issue. Moreover, the mechanism and
protocol should be designed to optimize the performance as
well as security simultaneously.
B. Smart Contract
Nowadays, there are many blockchain platforms supporting
the deployment of smart contracts such as EOS, Fabric, Zcash,
etc. The comparison of blockchain system which supports
smart contract system is showing in Table V.
For widely application and development of blockchain,
smart contract is the most important function to help
users/consumers operating the whole system from top to down
easily. However, smart contract is not powerful and effec-
tive currently, there are some obvious drawbacks should be
investigated and improved in the future work shown as follows.
• Blockchain limitation: Since the majority of smart con-
tracts are triggered by the corresponding transaction,
the TPS capability of blockchain is the most funda-
mental factor affecting the corresponding performance.
Accordingly, some solution in terms of hierarchical
architecture, shard scheme and high-capacity consensus
mechanism need more research. In addition, smart con-
tracts need frequent adjustments and rapid updates due to
various reasons in automated and decentralized applica-
tions, such as inevitable code bugs, application changes,
or security requirements. However, there is currently
lack of general upgrade and renewal solutions for smart
contracts.
• Execution engine limitation: As the smart contracts
become more functional, the need of speeding up exe-
cution becomes more urgent. However, execution engine
largely affects the execution efficiency of smart contracts.
Therefore, developing new execution engine to improve
the efficiency of smart contract need further research.
C. Blockchain Architectures and Protocols
From the resource consumption perspective, many
blockchain protocols, which consumes less power than PoW,
have been proposed, such as PoS and IOTA. However, they
struggle to be widely used in wireless networks because of
their scalability. As to another type of blockchain proto-
cols which vote instead of calculating, such as PBFT and
Hashgraph, they are still not widely applicable to wireless
networks due to their communication complexity. From
the communication perspective, caused by blockchain’s
transaction release, consensus interaction, ledger updating
and so on, additional communication overhead is bound to
be incurred along with the improvement of data security
brought by blockchain. There have to be a tradeoff between
the communication performance and the security performance
of the blockchain network. In conclusion, essential ques-
tions to be technologically addressed include: 1) how to
design a blockchain protocol with high scalability and
appropriate power consumption, communication complexity
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
378 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
TABLE V
BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEM COMPARISON [242]
while ensuring its security? 2) how to compromise between
blockchain’s performance and network’s performance?
D. Commercial Issues
In addition to technical matters, the development of killer
applications [243] and business models is also an important
issue that must be broken through to achieve large-scale appli-
cation of blockchain. For private or consortium blockchains,
only the untamperability of the data on chain can be guaran-
teed. While the authenticity of the data off chain requires the
cooperation of other technologies form the Internet of Things.
In terms of public chain, it is more about the transformation
of the whole system, which is suitable for the system without
effective incentive system or reliable allocation mechanism.
Therefore, the first areas to be implemented will be those that
have formed a consensus but lack incentives and cannot be
implemented on a large scale.
E. Policies and Standards
The large-scale commercialization of blockchain relies on
the support of regulations, standards, and other related policy
issues. With the vigorous development of blockchain, govern-
ments and organizations have increased their strategic layout
for the blockchain industry and focused on encouraging tech-
nology and policy regulations. From 2019 to 2020, there are
24 countries around the world have issued special policies or
laws for the development and regulation of the blockchain
industry [244]. Although governments and organizations are
actively carrying out policy research on blockchain at this
stage, the unification of policies, regulations, and standards is
still needed to be further promoted. Moreover, policymakers
need to explore the application path of blockchain pragmat-
ically in combination with reality, and jointly to solve the
problems and challenges in the process of empowering the
real economy.
F. Communication Issues
Blockchain is built in a P2P network, which means that a
large amount of communication cost will be added in terms
of network traffic and system processing capacity. Because
current applications are highly dynamic and data sources fre-
quently change, nodes may have to send a large number of
update transactions, which will further increase the commu-
nication overhead. On the other hand, blockchain deployment
in wireless is foreseeable in the near future [35]. In this case,
blockchain services rely on wireless communication networks
to reach consensus. During the consensus process, blockchain
nodes are connected through wireless channels. However,
due to factors such as wireless channel fading and unautho-
rized malicious interference, the wireless connection among
blockchain nodes may be attacked, and the uplink or down-
link transmission may fail, thereby reducing the probability of
successful transactions. Therefore, in the wireless blockchain
system, a framework is needed to measure the communication
overhead and communication quality in the communication
process.
VIII. CONCLUSION
Blockchain is an emerging technology that is considered
as one of the key enablers of 5G networks due to its unique
features of decentralization, scalability, security and the cor-
responding characteristics. In this article, we presented a
comprehensive survey focusing on the current most advanced
achievements in exploring the intrinsic nature of blockchain
from a methodological perspective. This article aims to sys-
tematically and comprehensively analyze the blockchain in
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 379
terms of the operation process, algorithm design and appli-
cation methods, especially the wireless blockchain in model
building, node deployment, protocol design, etc. This is of
great significance for exploring the essence of blockchain
and further exploiting the potential of blockchain thoroughly.
Based on the state of art literatures, we outlined the theoretical
model research for blockchain fundamentals understanding,
the network service design for blockchain-based mechanisms
and algorithms, as well as the application of blockchain for IoT
and etc. We first introduced the working principles, research
activities, and challenges of blockchain, as well as illustrated
the roadmap involving the classic methodology with typical
blockchain use cases and topics. Subsequently, we discussed
the contribution of the methodology to the performance of
blockchain systems, focusing on the role of stochastic pro-
cess, game theory, optimization theory, and machine learning
in both the study of blockchain operation process and the
design of blockchain protocol/algorithm. Finally, we pointed
out several blockchain issues from technical, commercial, and
political perspectives. Although the blockchain is still in its
infancy, it is clear that blockchain will significantly improve
the landscape and experience of future network services and
applications. We believe our timely study would shed valuable
light on the research of the blockchain topics as well as moti-
vate the interested researchers and practitioners to put more
research efforts into this promising area.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Nakamoto. “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system.” 2009.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[2] V. Buterin. “Ethereum whitepaper.” Sep. 2022. [Online]. Available:
https://ethereum.org/en/whitepaper/
[3] “Nxt: A peer-to-peer digital socioeconomic system.” Nxt Community.
Feb. 2016. [Online]. Available: https://nxtdocs.jelurida.com/Nxt_
Whitepaper
[4] G. Zyskind, O. Nathan, and A. S. Pentland, “Decentralizing privacy:
Using blockchain to protect personal data,” in Proc. IEEE Security
Privacy Workshops, San Jose, CA, USA, May 2015, pp. 180–184.
[5] S. Mondal, K. P. Wijewardena, S. Karuppuswami, N. Kriti, D. Kumar,
and P. Chahal, “Blockchain inspired RFID-based information architec-
ture for food supply chain,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 3,
pp. 5803–5813, Jun. 2019.
[6] Y. Yuan and F. Wang, “Towards blockchain-based intelligent trans-
portation systems,” in Proc. IEEE 19th Int. Conf. Intell. Transp. Syst.
(ITSC), Nov. 2016, pp. 2663–2668.
[7] D. Bhowmik and T. Feng, “The multimedia blockchain: A distributed
and tamper-proof media transaction framework,” in Proc. 22nd Int.
Conf. Digit. Signal Process. (DSP). London, U.K., Aug. 2017, pp. 1–5.
[8] D. Liu, A. Alahmadi, J. Ni, X. Lin, and X. Shen, “Anonymous repu-
tation system for IIoT-enabled retail marketing atop PoS blockchain,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3527–3537, Jun. 2019.
[9] H. Xu, L. Zhang, O. Onireti, Y. Fang, W. J. Buchanan, and M. A. Imran,
“BeepTrace: Blockchain-enabled privacy-preserving contact tracing for
COVID-19 pandemic and beyond,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8,
no. 5, pp. 3915–3929, Mar. 2021.
[10] N. Al-Zaben, M. M. H. Onik, J. Yang, N. Lee, and C. Kim, “General
data protection regulation complied blockchain architecture for per-
sonally identifiable information management,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Comput., Electron. Commun. Eng. (iCCECE), Southend, U.K., Aug.
2018, pp. 77–82.
[11] R. S. Sangwan, M. Kassab, and C. Capitolo, “Architectural considera-
tions for blockchain based systems for financial transactions,” Procedia
Comput. Sci., vol. 168, pp. 265–271, Jan. 2020.
[12] B. Granetto, R. Kandaswamy, J. Lovelock, and M. Reynolds, Forecast:
Blockchain Business Value, Worldwide, 2017-2030, Gartner, Stamford,
CT, USA, 2017.
[13] T. Salman, M. Zolanvari, A. Erbad, R. Jain, and M. Samaka, “Security
services using Blockchains: A state of the art survey,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 1, pp. 858–880, 1st Quart., 2019.
[14] H. Xu, P. V. Klaine, O. Onireti, B. Cao, M. Imran, and L. Zhang,
“Blockchain-enabled resource management and sharing for 6G com-
munications,” Digit. Commun. Netw., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 261–269, Aug.
2020.
[15] Y. Hu, M. Liyanage, A. Mansoor, K. Thilakarathna, G. Jourjon, and
A. Seneviratne, “Blockchain-based smart contracts—Applications and
challenges,” 2018, arXiv:1810.04699.
[16] N. Waheed, X. He, M. Usman, and M. Usman, “Security & privacy in
IoT using machine learning & blockchain: Threats & countermeasures,”
2020, arXiv:2002.03488.
[17] M. Conti, E. Sandeep Kumar, C. Lal, and S. Ruj, “A survey on security
and privacy issues of bitcoin,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 20,
no. 4, pp. 3416–3452, 4th Quart., 2018.
[18] M. Saad et al., “Exploring the attack surface of blockchain: A compre-
hensive survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 1977–2008,
3rd Quart., 2020.
[19] M. S. Ferdous, M. J. M. Chowdhury, M. A. Hoque, and
A. Colman, “Blockchain consensus algorithms: A survey,” 2020,
arXiv:2001.07091.
[20] W. Wang et al., “A survey on consensus mechanisms and mining
strategy management in blockchain networks,” IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 22328–22370, 2019.
[21] Y. Xiao, N. Zhang, W. Lou, and Y. T. Hou, “A survey of distributed
consensus protocols for blockchain networks,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1432–1465, 2nd Quart., 2020.
[22] J. Xie, F. R. Yu, T. Huang, R. Xie, J. Liu, and Y. Liu, “A survey
on the scalability of blockchain systems,” IEEE Netw., vol. 33, no. 5,
pp. 166–173, Sep./Oct. 2019.
[23] G. Yu, X. Wang, K. Yu, W. Ni, J. A. Zhang, and R. P. Liu, “Survey:
Sharding in blockchains,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 14155–14181, 2020.
[24] H. T. M. Gamage, H. Weerasinghe, and N. G. J. Dias, “A survey on
blockchain technology concepts, applications, and issues,” SN Comput.
Sci., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 1–15, Mar. 2020.
[25] D. C. Nguyen, P. Pathirana, M. Ding, and A. Seneviratne, “Blockchain
for 5G and beyond networks: A state of the art survey,” J. Netw.
Comput. Appl., vol. 166, Sep. 2020, Art. no. 102693.
[26] K. Yue et al., “A survey of decentralizing applications via blockchain:
The 5G and beyond perspective,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 23,
no. 4, pp. 2191–2217, 4th Quart., 2021.
[27] M. A. Ferrag, M. Derdour, M. Mukherjee, A. Derhab, L. Maglaras,
and H. Janicke, “Blockchain technologies for the Internet of Things:
Research issues and challenges,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 2,
pp. 2188–2204, Apr. 2019.
[28] M. Chowdhury, M. Ferdous, K. Biswas, N. Chowdhury, and
V. Muthukkumarasamy, “A survey on blockchain-based platforms for
IoT use-cases,” Knowl. Eng. Rev., vol. 35, p. e19, May 2020.
[29] J. Xie et al., “A survey of blockchain technology applied to smart
cities: Research issues and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 2794–2830, 3rd Quart., 2019.
[30] K. Gai, J. Guo, L. Zhu, and S. Yu, “Blockchain meets cloud computing:
A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 3, pp. 2009–2030,
3rd Quart., 2020.
[31] R. Yang, F. R. Yu, P. Si, Z. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “Integrated blockchain
and edge computing systems,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21,
no. 2, pp. 1508–1532, 2nd Quart., 2019.
[32] H. Baniata and A. Kertesz, “A survey on blockchain-fog integration
approaches,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 102657–102668, 2020.
[33] Z. Liu et al., “A survey on blockchain: A game theoretical perspective,”
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 47615–47643, 2019.
[34] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. M. Leung, “Blockchain and
machine learning for communications and networking systems,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1392–1431, 2nd Quart.,
2020.
[35] L. Zhang, H. Xu, O. Onireti, M. A. Imran, and B. Cao, “How
much communication resource is needed to run a wireless blockchain
network?” IEEE Netw., vol. 36, no. 1, pp. 128–135, Jan./Feb. 2022.
[36] Y. Li, B. Cao, L. Liang, D. Mao, and L. Zhang, “Block access control
in wireless blockchain network: Design, modeling and analysis,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 70, no. 9, pp. 9258–9272, Sep. 2021.
[37] S. Zhai, Y. Yang, J. Li, C. Qiu, and J. Zhao, “Research on the appli-
cation of cryptography on the blockchain,” J. Phys. Conf. Series,
vol. 1168, no. 3, pp. 32–77, Feb. 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
380 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
[38] A. A. Rasheed, R. N. Mahapatra, C. Varol, and N. Karpoor, “Exploiting
zero knowledge proof and blockchain towards the enforcement of
anonymity, data integrity and privacy (ADIP) on IoT,” IEEE Trans.
Emerg. Topics Comput., vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 1476–1491, Jul.–Sep. 2022.
[39] W. Hao et al., “Towards a trust-enhanced blockchain P2P topology
for enabling fast and reliable broadcast,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Service
Manag., vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 904–917, Jun. 2020.
[40] W. Hyun, “Hybrid peer-to-peer network based layered blockchain
architecture for enhancement of synchronization performance,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Inf. Commun. Technol. Convergence (ICTC), Oct. 2021,
pp. 1461–1463.
[41] B. Cao et al., “When Internet of Things meets blockchain: Challenges
in distributed consensus,” IEEE Netw., vol. 33, no. 6, pp. 133–139,
Nov./Dec. 2019.
[42] R. Kumar and R. Tripathi, “Large-scale data storage scheme in
blockchain ledger using IPFS and NoSQL,” in Large-Scale Data
Streaming, Processing, and Blockchain Security. Hershey, PA, USA:
IGI Global, 2021, pp. 91–116.
[43] R. Han, Z. Yan, X. Liang, and L. T. Yang, “How can incentive
mechanisms and blockchain benefit with each other? A survey,” ACM
Comput. Surveys, to be published.
[44] X. Ling, J. Wang, T. Bouchoucha, B. C. Levy, and Z. Ding, “Blockchain
radio access network (B-RAN): Towards Decentralized secure radio
access paradigm,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 9714–9723, 2019.
[45] H. Xu, L. Zhang, Y. Sun, and I. Chih-Lin, “BE-RAN: Blockchain-
enabled open RAN with decentralized identity management and
privacy-preserving communication,” 2021, arXiv:2101.10856.
[46] A. Jindal, G. S. Aujla, N. Kumar, and M. Villari, “GUARDIAN:
Blockchain-based secure demand response management in smart grid
system,” IEEE Trans. Services Comput., vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 613–624,
Jul./Aug. 2020.
[47] X. Ling, J. Wang, Y. Le, Z. Ding, and X. Gao, “Blockchain radio
access network beyond 5G,” IEEE Wireless Commun., vol. 27, no. 6,
pp. 160–168, Dec. 2020.
[48] S. Ding, G. Shen, K. X. Pan, S. K. Bose, Q. Zhang, and B. Mukherjee,
“Blockchain-assisted spectrum trading between elastic virtual optical
networks,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 205–211, Nov./Dec. 2020.
[49] G. O. Boateng, G. Sun, D. A. Mensah, D. M. Doe, R. Ou, and
G. Liu, “Consortium blockchain-based spectrum trading for network
slicing in 5G RAN: A multi-agent deep reinforcement learning
approach,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Comput., early access, Jul. 19, 2022,
doi: 10.1109/TMC.2022.3190449.
[50] L. Xue, W. Yang, W. Chen, and L. Huang, “STBC: A novel blockchain-
based spectrum trading solution,” IEEE Trans. Cogn. Commun. Netw.,
vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 13–30, Mar. 2022.
[51] R. Zhu, H. Liu, L. Liu, X. Liu, W. Hu, and B. Yuan, “A blockchain-
based two-stage secure spectrum intelligent sensing and sharing auction
mechanism,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 2773–2783,
Apr. 2022.
[52] G. Rathee, F. Ahmad, F. Kurugollu, M. A. Azad, R. Iqbal, and
M. Imran, “CRT-BIoV: A cognitive radio technique for blockchain-
enabled Internet of Vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22,
no. 7, pp. 4005–4015, Jul. 2021.
[53] S. Zheng, Y. Jiang, X. Ge, Y. Xiao, Y. Huang, and Y. Liu,
“Cooperative spectrum sensing and fusion based on tangle networks,”
IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., early access, May 12, 2022,
doi: 10.1109/TNSE.2022.3174688.
[54] H. Zhang, S. Leng, Y. Wei, and J. He, “A blockchain enhanced coexis-
tence of heterogeneous networks on unlicensed spectrum,” IEEE Trans.
Veh. Technol., vol. 71, no. 7, pp. 7613–7624, Jul. 2022.
[55] S. Hu, Y. Pei, and Y.-C. Liang, “Sensing-mining-access tradeoff
in blockchain-enabled dynamic spectrum access,” IEEE Wireless
Commun. Lett., vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 820–824, Apr. 2021.
[56] M. Jiang, Y. Li, Q. Zhang, G. Zhang, and J. Qin, et al. “Decentralized
blockchain-based dynamic spectrum acquisition for wireless downlink
communications,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 69, pp. 986–997,
Jan. 2021.
[57] P. Fernando, K. Dadallage, T. Gamage, C. Seneviratne, A. Madanayake,
and M. Liyanage, “Proof-of-sense: A novel consensus mechanism for
spectrum misuse detection,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., early access,
Apr. 25, 2022, doi: 10.1109/TII.2022.3169978.
[58] C. Zhang et al., “A blockchain-based model migration
approach for secure and sustainable federated learning in IoT
systems,” IEEE Internet Things J., early access, May 2, 2022,
doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2022.3171926.
[59] P. K. Deb, S. Misra, T. Sarkar, and A. Mukherjee, “Magnum:
A distributed framework for enabling transfer learning in B5G-
enabled industrial IoT,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 10,
pp. 7133–7140, Oct. 2021.
[60] Y. Wang, Z. Su, J. Ni, N. Zhang, and X. Shen, “Blockchain-empowered
space-air-ground integrated networks: Opportunities, challenges, and
solutions,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 160–209,
1st Quart., 2022.
[61] K. Shahzad, A. O. Aseeri, and M. A. Shah, “A blockchain-based
authentication solution for 6G communication security in tactile
networks,” Electronics, vol. 11, no. 9, p. 1374, Apr. 2022.
[62] J. Wang and H. Wang, “Monoxide: Scale out blockchains with asyn-
chronous consensus zones,” in Proc. 16th USENIX Symp. Netw. Syst.
Design Implement., Feb. 2019, pp. 95–112.
[63] Z. Zhang, M. Zargham, and V. Preciado, “On modeling blockchain-
enabled economic networks as stochastic dynamical systems,” Appl.
Netw. Sci., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 1–24, Dec. 2020.
[64] S. Guo, X. Hu, S. Guo, X. Qiu, and F. Qi, “Blockchain meets edge com-
puting: A distributed and trusted authentication system,” IEEE Trans.
Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 1972–1983, Mar. 2020.
[65] A. Gopalan, A. Sankararaman, A. Walid, and S. Vishwanath, “Stability
and scalability of blockchain systems,” ACM Meas. Anal. Comput.
Syst., vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 1–35, Jun. 2020.
[66] A. Chakravorty and C. Rong, “Ushare: User controlled social media
based on blockchain,” in Proc. 11th Int. Conf. Ubiquitous Inf. Manage.
Commun., Jan. 2017, pp. 1–6.
[67] Q. Xia, E. B. Sifah, K. O. Asamoah, J. Gao, X. Du, and M. Guizani,
“MeDShare: Trust-less medical data sharing among cloud service
providers via blockchain,” IEEE Access, vol. 5, pp. 14757–14767,
2017.
[68] J. Zou, B. Ye, L. Qu, Y. Wang, M. A. Orgun, and L. Li, “A proof-of-
trust consensus protocol for enhancing accountability in crowdsourcing
services,” IEEE Trans. Services Comput., vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 429–445,
May/Jun. 2019.
[69] X. Liu et al., “MDP-based quantitative analysis framework for proof of
authority,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Cyber-Enabled Distrib. Comput. Knowl.
Disc. (CyberC), Oct. 2019, pp. 227–236.
[70] W. Li, C. Feng, L. Zhang, H. Xu, B. Cao, and M. A. Imran, “A scal-
able multi-layer PBFT consensus for blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Parallel
Distrib. Syst., vol. 32, no. 5, pp. 1146–1160, May 2021.
[71] W. Feng, Z. Yan, L. T. Yang, and Q. Zheng, “Anonymous authentication
on trust in blockchain-based mobile crowdsourcing,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 9, no. 16, pp. 14185–14202, Aug. 2022.
[72] G. Liu, H. Dong, Z. Yan, X. Zhou, and S. Shimizu, “B4SDC: A
blockchain system for security data collection in MANETs,” IEEE
Trans. Big Data, vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 739–752, Jun. 2022.
[73] M. Abdel-Basset, N. Moustafa, and H. Hawash, “Privacy-preserved
cyberattack detection in industrial edge of things (IEoT): A blockchain-
orchestrated federated learning approach,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat.,
early access, Apr. 19, 2022, doi: 10.1109/TII.2022.3167663.
[74] Z. Chang, W. Guo, X. Guo, Z. Zhou, and T. Ristaniemi, “Incentive
mechanism for edge-computing-based blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 16, no. 11, pp. 7105–7114, Nov. 2020.
[75] W. Sun, J. Liu, Y. Yue, and P. Wang, “Joint resource allocation and
incentive design for blockchain-based mobile edge computing,” IEEE
Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 19, no. 9, pp. 6050–6064, Sep. 2020.
[76] J. Weng, J. Weng, J. Zhang, M. Li, Y. Zhang, and W. Luo, “DeepChain:
Auditable and privacy-preserving deep learning with blockchain-based
incentive,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18, no. 5,
pp. 2438–2455, Sep./Oct. 2021.
[77] V. Sharma, “An energy-efficient transaction model for the blockchain-
enabled Internet of vehicles,” IEEE Commun. Lett., vol. 23, no. 2,
pp. 246–249, Feb. 2019.
[78] S. Huh, S. Cho, and S. Kim, “Managing IoT devices using blockchain
platform,” in Proc. 19th Int. Conf. Adv. Commun. Technol. (ICACT),
Feb. 2017, pp. 464–467.
[79] M. Moniruzzaman, S. Khezr, A. Yassine, and R. Benlamri, “Blockchain
for smart homes: Review of current trends and research challenges,”
Comput. Elect. Eng., vol. 83, May 2020, Art. no. 106585.
[80] L. Baird. “The swirlds hashgraph consensus algorithm: Fair,
fast, Byzantine fault tolerance.” May 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://hedera.com/learning/what-is-hedera-hashgraph
[81] S. Popov. “The tangle.” Apr. 2018. [Online]. Available:
http://iotatoken.com/IOTA Whitepaper.pdf
[82] E. Androulaki et al., “Hyperledger fabric: A distributed operating
system for permissioned blockchains,” in Proc. 13th EuroSys Conf.,
New York, NY, USA, Apr. 2018, p. 30.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TMC.2022.3190449
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TNSE.2022.3174688
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TII.2022.3169978
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2022.3171926
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TII.2022.3167663
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 381
[83] S. Kumaraswamy. “EOSIO—The most powerful infrastructure
for decentralized applications.” Jul. 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/EOSIO/eos
[84] I. Eyal, A. E. Gencer, E. G. Sirer, and R. Van Renesse, “Bitcoin-NG: A
scalable blockchain protocol,” in Proc. 13th Symp. Netw. Syst. Design
Implement. (NSDI), Santa Clara, CA, Mar. 2016, pp. 45–59.
[85] P. Robinson, R. Ramesh, J. Brainard, and S. Johnson, “Atomic
crosschain transactions white paper,” 2020, arXiv:2003.00903.
[86] J. Feng, F. R. Yu, Q. Pei, J. Du, and L. Zhu, “Joint optimization of radio
and computational resources allocation in blockchain-enabled mobile
edge computing systems,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 19,
no. 6, pp. 4321–4334, Jun. 2020.
[87] A. Papoulis and S. U. Pillai, Probability, Random Variables, and
Stochastic Processes. Boston, MA, USA: Tata McGraw-Hill Educ.,
2002.
[88] Y. Zhu, G. Zheng, and K.-K. Wong, “Stochastic geometry analysis of
large intelligent surface-assisted millimeter wave networks,” IEEE J.
Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 38, no. 8, pp. 1749–1762, Aug. 2020.
[89] S. N. Chiu, D. Stoyan, W. S. Kendall, and J. Mecke, Stochastic
Geometry and Its Applications. Hoboken, NJ, USA: Wiley, 2013.
[90] D. Huang, X. Ma, and S. Zhang, “Performance analysis of the raft
consensus algorithm for private blockchains,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man,
Cybern., Syst., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 172–181, Jan. 2020.
[91] D. Kraft, “Difficulty control for blockchain-based consensus systems,”
Peer-to-Peer Netw. Appl., vol. 9, no. 2, pp. 397–413, Apr. 2016.
[92] Y. Li et al., “Direct acyclic graph-based ledger for Internet of Things:
Performance and security analysis,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 28,
no. 4, pp. 1643–1656, Aug. 2020.
[93] S. Dachian, N. Kordzakhia, Y. A. Kutoyants, and A. Novikov,
“Estimation of cusp location of stochastic processes: A survey,” Stat.
Inference Stochastic Processes, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 345–362, 2018.
[94] M. Lei, Y. Shi, and L. Niu, “The applications of stochastic models
in network embedding: A survey,” in Proc. IEEE/WIC/ACM Int. Conf.
Web Intell. (WI), Dec. 2018, pp. 635–638.
[95] A. F. Karr, “Statistical models and methods in image analysis: A sur-
vey,” in Statistical Inference in Stochastic Processes. Boca Raton, FL,
USA: CRC Press, 1991, pp. 1–34.
[96] A. Shakarami, M. Ghobaei-Arani, M. Masdari, and M. Hosseinzadeh,
“A survey on the computation offloading approaches in mobile
edge/cloud computing environment: A stochastic-based perspective,”
J. Grid Comput., vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 639–671, Aug. 2020.
[97] H. Kang, X. Chang, J. Mišić, V. B. Mišić, Y. Yao, and Z. Chen,
“Stochastic modeling approaches for analyzing blockchain: A survey,”
2020, arXiv:2009.05945.
[98] D. Fullmer and A. S. Morse, “Analysis of difficulty control in bitcoin
and proof-of-work blockchains,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Decis. Control
(CDC), Miami, FL, USA, Dec. 2018, pp. 5988–5992.
[99] H. Sukhwani, N. Wang, K. S. Trivedi, and A. Rindos, “Performance
modeling of hyperledger fabric (permissioned blockchain network),” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Netw. Comput. Appl. (NCA), Cambridge, MA,
USA, Nov. 2018, pp. 1–8.
[100] N. Papadis, S. Borst, A. Walid, M. Grissa, and L. Tassiulas, “Stochastic
models and wide-area network measurements for blockchain design
and analysis,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Commun., Apr. 2018,
pp. 2546–2554.
[101] K. Nayak, S. Kumar, A. Miller, and E. Shi, “Stubborn mining:
Generalizing selfish mining and combining with an eclipse attack,”
in Proc. IEEE Eur. Symp. Security Privacy (EuroSP), May. 2016,
pp. 305–320.
[102] T. Meng, Y. Zhao, K. Wolter, and C.-Z. Xu, “On consortium blockchain
consistency: A queueing network model approach,” IEEE Trans.
Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 32, no. 6, pp. 1369–1382, Jun. 2021.
[103] A. Asheralieva and D. Niyato, “Learning-based mobile edge computing
resource management to support public blockchain networks,” IEEE
Trans. Mobile Comput., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 1092–1109, Mar. 2021.
[104] F.-Q. Ma, Q.-L. Li, Y.-H. Liu, and Y.-X. Chang, “Stochastic
performance modeling for practical Byzantine fault tolerance consensus
in blockchain,” 2021, arXiv:2107.00183.
[105] K. Zheng, Y. Liu, C. Dai, Y. Duan, and X. Huang, “Model check-
ing PBFT consensus mechanism in healthcare blockchain network,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Inf. Technol. Med. Educ. (ITME), Hangzhou,
China, Oct. 2018, pp. 877–881.
[106] H. Xu, L. Zhang, Y. Liu, and B. Cao, “RAFT based wireless blockchain
networks in the presence of malicious jamming,” IEEE Wireless
Commun. Lett., vol. 9, no. 6, pp. 817–821, Jun. 2020.
[107] Y. Zhu, G. Zheng, and K.-K. Wong, “Blockchain-empowered decen-
tralized storage in air-to-ground industrial networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3593–3601, Jun. 2019.
[108] Y. Sun, L. Zhang, G. Feng, B. Yang, B. Cao, and M. A. Imran,
“Blockchain-enabled wireless Internet of Things: Performance analysis
and optimal communication node deployment,” IEEE Internet Things
J., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 5791–5802, Jun. 2019.
[109] M. Liu, F. R. Yu, Y. Teng, V. C. M. Leung, and M. Song, “Computation
offloading and content caching in wireless blockchain networks with
mobile edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 67, no. 11,
pp. 11008–11021, Nov. 2018.
[110] R. B. Myerson, Game Theory, Analysis of Conflict. Cambridge, MA,
USA: Harvard Univ. Press, 1997.
[111] Z. Han, D. Niyato, W. Saad, T. Başar, and A. Hjørungnes, Game
Theory in Wireless and Communication Networks: Theory, Models, and
Applications. Cambridge, U.K.: Cambridge Univ. Press, 2012.
[112] J. Nash, “Non-cooperative games,” Ann. Math., vol. 54, no. 2,
pp. 286–295, 1951.
[113] I. Eyal, “The miner’s dilemma,” in Proc. IEEE Symp. Security Privacy,
San Jose, CA, USA, May 2015, pp. 89–103.
[114] Y. Zhen, M. Yue, C. Zhong-Yu, T. Chang-bing, and C. Xin, “Zero-
determinant strategy for the algorithm optimize of blockchain PoW
consensus,” in Proc. Chin. Control Conf., Jul. 2017, pp. 1441–1446.
[115] X. Liu, W. Wang, D. Niyato, N. Zhao, and P. Wang, “Evolutionary
game for mining pool selection in blockchain networks,” IEEE Wireless
Commun. Lett., vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 760–763, Oct. 2018.
[116] R. Xing, Z. Su, T. H. Luan, Q. Xu, Y. Wang, and R. Li, “UAVs-aided
delay-tolerant blockchain secure Offline transactions in post-disaster
vehicular networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., early access, Jun. 21,
2022, doi: 10.1109/TVT.2022.3184965.
[117] C. T. Nguyen, D. T. Hoang, D. N. Nguyen, H.-A. Pham, N. H. Tuong,
and E. Dutkiewicz, “Blockchain-based secure platform for coalition
loyalty program management,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun. Netw.
Conf. (WCNC), Nanjing, China, Mar. 2021, pp. 1–6.
[118] J. Li, T. Liu, D. Niyato, P. Wang, J. Li, and Z. Han, “Contract-theoretic
pricing for security deposits in sharded blockchain with Internet of
Things,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 12, pp. 10052–10070,
Jan. 2021.
[119] Y. Yang, Z. Liu, Z. Liu, Y. Xie, K. Y. Chan, and X. Guan, “Joint
optimization of edge computing resource pricing and wireless caching
for blockchain-driven networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 71,
no. 6, pp. 6661–6670, Jun. 2022.
[120] Y. Zuo, S. Jin, S. Zhang, Y. Han, and K.-K. Wong, “Delay-limited
computation offloading for MEC-assisted mobile blockchain networks,”
IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 69, no. 12, pp. 8569–8584, Dec. 2021.
[121] A. Kiayias, E. Koutsoupias, M. Kyropoulou, and Y. Tselekounis,
“Blockchain mining games,” in Proc. ACM Conf. Econ. Comput.,
Boulder, CO, USA, 2016, pp. 365–382.
[122] W. Liu, B. Cao, L. Zhang, M. Peng, and M. Daneshmand, “A
distributed game theoretic approach for blockchain-based offloading
strategy,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC), Dublin, Ireland,
Jun. 2020, pp. 1–6.
[123] M. E. Mkiramweni, C. Yang, J. Li, and W. Zhang, “A survey of game
theory in unmanned aerial vehicles communications,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 3386–3416, 4th Quart., 2019.
[124] J. Pawlick, E. Colbert, and Q. Zhu, “A game-theoretic taxonomy and
survey of defensive deception for cybersecurity and privacy,” ACM
Comput. Surveys, vol. 52, no. 4, pp. 1–28, Aug. 2019.
[125] Q. Mao, F. Hu, and Q. Hao, “Deep learning for intelligent wireless
networks: A comprehensive survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2595–2621, 4th Quart., 2018.
[126] J. Li, Y. Yuan, S. Wang, and F. Wang, “Transaction queuing game
in bitcoin blockchain,” in Proc. IEEE Intell. Vehicles Symp. (IV), Jun.
2018, pp. 114–119.
[127] C. Tang, C. Li, X. Yu, Z. Zheng, and Z. Chen, IEEE Trans. Cybern.,
vol. 50, no. 10, pp. 4544–4549, Oct. 2020.
[128] S. Jiang and J. Wu, “Bitcoin mining with transaction fees: A game
on the block size,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain (Blockchain),
Atlanta, GA, USA, Jul. 2019, pp. 107–115.
[129] A. Taghizadeh, H. Kebriaei, and D. Niyato, “Mean field game for equi-
librium analysis of mining computational power in blockchains,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 8, pp. 7625–7635, Aug. 2020.
[130] C. Chen, X. Chen, J. Yu, W. Wu, and D. Wu, “Impact of temporary
fork on the evolution of mining pools in blockchain networks: An
evolutionary game analysis,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., vol. 8, no. 1,
pp. 400–418, Jan.–Mar. 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TVT.2022.3184965
382 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
[131] S. Feng, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, P. Wang, S. Wang, and Y. Zhang,
“Cyber risk management with risk aware cyber-insurance in blockchain
networks,” in Proc. IEEE Global Commun. Conf. (GLOBECOM),
Abu Dhabi, UAE, Dec. 2018, pp. 1–7.
[132] S. Kim and S.-G. Hahn, “Mining pool manipulation in blockchain
network over evolutionary block withholding attack,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 144230–144244, 2019.
[133] B. Li and J. Jiang, “Security analysis of Paxos mechanism design based
on game theory,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Inf. Technol. Big Data Artif.
Intell. (ICIBA), Chongqing, China, Nov. 2020, pp. 59–66.
[134] H. Yao, T. Mai, J. Wang, Z. Ji, C. Jiang, and Y. Qian, “Resource trading
in blockchain-based Industrial Internet of Things,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3602–3609, Jun. 2019.
[135] Y. Jiao, P. Wang, D. Niyato, and Z. Xiong, “Social welfare
maximization auction in edge computing resource allocation for mobile
blockchain,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC), May 2018,
pp. 1–6.
[136] N. C. Luong, Z. Xiong, P. Wang, and D. Niyato, “Optimal auction for
edge computing resource management in mobile blockchain networks:
A deep learning approach,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC),
Kansas City, MO, USA, May 2018, pp. 1–6.
[137] D. Xu, L. Xiao, L. Sun, and M. Lei, “Game theoretic study on
blockchain based secure edge networks,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Commun.
China (ICCC), Qingdao, China, Oct. 2017, pp. 1–5.
[138] Z. Xiong, Y. Zhang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han, “When mobile
blockchain meets edge computing,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 56,
no. 8, pp. 33–39, Aug. 2018.
[139] Z. Xiong, S. Feng, W. Wang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and
Z. Han, “Cloud/fog computing resource management and pricing
for blockchain networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 3,
pp. 4585–4600, Jun. 2019.
[140] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, P. Wang, D. Ye, and D. I. Kim,
“Incentivizing consensus propagation in proof-of-stake based consor-
tium blockchain networks,” IEEE Wireless Commun. Lett., vol. 8, no. 1,
pp. 157–160, Feb. 2019.
[141] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao, and Q. Wu, “Blockchain-based
secure spectrum trading for unmanned-aerial-vehicle-assisted cellular
networks: An operator’s perspective,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 451–466, Jan. 2020.
[142] S. Guo, Y. Dai, S. Guo, X. Qiu, and F. Qi, “Blockchain meets edge
computing: Stackelberg game and double auction based task offload-
ing for mobile blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 5,
pp. 5549–5561, May 2020.
[143] H. Hindi, “A tutorial on convex optimization II: Duality and interior
point methods,” in Proc. Amer. Control Conf., Minneapolis, MN, USA,
Jun. 2006, pp. 686–696.
[144] P. Berck and K. Sydsæter, “Linear and nonlinear programming,” in
Economists’ Mathematical Manual. New York, NY, USA: Springer,
1993, pp. 71–76.
[145] S. Boyd, N. Parikh, E. Chu, B. Peleato, and J. Eckstein, “Distributed
optimization and statistical learning via the alternating direction method
of multipliers,” Found. Trends Mach. Learn., vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 1–122,
2011.
[146] B. He, H. Yang, and S. Wang, “Alternating direction method with self-
adaptive penalty parameters for monotone variational inequalities,” J.
Optim. Theory Appl., vol. 106, no. 2, pp. 337–356, Aug. 2000.
[147] D. P. Kingma and J. Ba, “Adam: A method for stochastic optimization,”
in Proc. Int. Conf. Learn. Represent., Apr. 2014, pp. 1–15.
[148] J. Duchi, E. Hazan, and Y. Singer, “Adaptive subgradient methods
for online learning and stochastic optimization.” J. Mach. Learn. Res.,
vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 2121–2159, Nov. 2011.
[149] L. Jiang, S. Xie, S. Maharjan, and Y. Zhang, “Joint transaction relay-
ing and block verification optimization for blockchain empowered
D2D communication,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 1,
pp. 828–841, Jan. 2020.
[150] S. Sun, Z. Cao, H. Zhu, and J. Zhao, “A survey of optimization methods
from a machine learning perspective,” IEEE Trans. Cybern., vol. 50,
no. 8, pp. 3668–3681, Aug. 2020.
[151] G. Wu, R. Mallipeddi, and P. N. Suganthan, “Ensemble strategies
for population-based optimization algorithms—A survey,” Swarm Evol.
Comput., vol. 44, pp. 695–711, Feb. 2019.
[152] D. K. Molzahn et al., “A survey of distributed optimization and control
algorithms for electric power systems,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 8,
no. 6, pp. 2941–2962, Nov. 2017.
[153] T. Yang et al., “A survey of distributed optimization,” Annu. Rev.
Control, vol. 47, pp. 278–305, May 2019.
[154] O. Onireti, L. Zhang, and M. A. Imran, “On the viable area of wire-
less practical Byzantine fault tolerance (PBFT) blockchain networks,”
in Proc. IEEE Global Commun. Conf. (GLOBECOM), Waikoloa, HI,
USA, Dec. 2019, pp. 1–6.
[155] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, D. Ye, D. I. Kim, and J. Zhao, “Toward
secure blockchain-enabled Internet of Vehicles: Optimizing consensus
management using reputation and contract theory,” IEEE Trans. Veh.
Technol., vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 2906–2920, Mar. 2019.
[156] M. Saad, L. Njilla, C. Kamhoua, J. Kim, D. Nyang, and A. Mohaisen,
“Mempool optimization for defending against DDoS attacks in PoW-
based blockchain systems,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain
Cryptocurrency (ICBC), May 2019, pp. 285–292.
[157] X. Cai et al., “A Sharding scheme-based many-objective optimization
algorithm for enhancing security in blockchain-enabled Industrial
Internet of Things,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 11,
pp. 7650–7658, Nov. 2021.
[158] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, S. Xie, and D. I. Kim, “Securing data
sharing from the sky: Integrating blockchains into drones in 5G and
beyond,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35, no. 1, pp. 78–85, Jan./Feb. 2021.
[159] Y. Wu, J. Shi, X. Chen, K. Ni, L. Qian, and K. Zhang, “Optimal
multi-access computation offloading for mobile blockchain,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. Syst. (ICCS), Chengdu, China, Dec. 2018,
pp. 198–203.
[160] S. Fu, L. Zhao, X. Ling, and H. Zhang, “Maximizing the system energy
efficiency in the blockchain based Internet of Things,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC), Shanghai, China, May 2019, pp. 1–6.
[161] M. Wang, C. Xu, X. Chen, L. Zhong, Z. Wu, and D. O. Wu, “BC-MDC:
A blockchain-based decentralized truthful framework for mobile device
cloud,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 1208–1219, Feb.
2021.
[162] Z. Xiong, J. Kang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and H. V. Poor, “Cloud/edge
computing service management in blockchain networks: Multi-leader
multi-follower game-based ADMM for pricing,” IEEE Trans. Services
Comput., vol. 13, no. 2, pp. 356–367, Mar./Apr. 2020.
[163] L. Saino, I. Psaras, E. Leonardi, and G. Pavlou, “Load imbalance and
caching performance of sharded systems,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw.,
vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 112–125, Feb. 2020.
[164] Y. Zhang, D. Yang, and G. Xue, “CheaPay: An optimal algorithm for
fee minimization in blockchain-based payment channel networks,” in
Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC), Shanghai, China, May 2019,
pp. 1–6.
[165] Z. Jin, R. Wu, X. Chen, and G. Li, “Charging guiding strategy for
electric taxis based on consortium blockchain,” IEEE Access, vol. 7,
pp. 144144–144153, 2019.
[166] H. Zhu, C. Huang, and J. Zhou, “EdgeChain: Blockchain-based multi-
vendor mobile edge application placement,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Netw.
Softwarization Workshops (NetSoft), Montreal, QC, Canada, Jun. 2018,
pp. 222–226.
[167] T. M. Mitchell, Machine Learning, 1st ed. New York, NY, USA:
McGraw-Hill, 1997.
[168] P. Langley and H. A. Simon, “Applications of machine learning and
rule induction,” Commun. ACM, vol. 38, no. 11, pp. 54–64, Nov. 1995.
[169] R. Saravanan and P. Sujatha, “A state of art techniques on machine
learning algorithms: A perspective of supervised learning approaches
in data classification,” in Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Intell. Comput. Control
Syst. (ICICCS), Madurai, India, Jun. 2018, pp. 945–949.
[170] L. P. Kaelbling, M. L. Littman, and A. W. Moore, “Reinforcement
learning: A survey,” J. Artif. Intell. Res., vol. 4, pp. 237–285, May
1996.
[171] M. Shen, J. Zhang, L. Zhu, K. Xu, and X. Tang, “Secure SVM train-
ing over vertically-partitioned datasets using consortium blockchain for
vehicular social networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69, no. 6,
pp. 5773–5783, Jun. 2020.
[172] H. J. Singh and A. S. Hafid, “Transaction confirmation time
prediction in Ethereum blockchain using machine learning,” 2019,
arXiv:1911.11592.
[173] I. Arel, D. C. Rose, and T. P. Karnowski, “Deep machine learning—A
new frontier in artificial intelligence research,” IEEE Comput. Intell.
Mag., vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 13–18, Nov. 2010.
[174] L. Deng, “A tutorial survey of architectures, algorithms, and applica-
tions for deep learning,” APSIPA Trans. Signal Inf. Process., vol. 3,
p. e2, Jan. 2014.
[175] B. Waske and J. A. Benediktsson, “Fusion of support vector machines
for classification of multisensor data,” IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote
Sens., vol. 45, no. 12, pp. 3858–3866, Dec. 2007.
[176] L. Breiman, “Random forests,” Mach. Learn., vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 5–32,
Oct. 2001.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 383
[177] Y. LeCun, Y. Bengio, and G. Hinton, “Deep learning,” Nature, vol. 521,
pp. 436–44, May 2015.
[178] G. Litjens et al., “A survey on deep learning in medical image analysis,”
Med. Image Anal., vol. 42, pp. 60–88, Dec. 2017.
[179] H.-T. Cheng et al., “Wide & deep learning for recommender systems,”
in Proc. 1st Workshop Deep Learn. Recommender Syst., Boston, MA,
USA, Sep. 2016, pp. 7–10.
[180] N. Kumar, A. Singh, A. Handa, and S. K. Shukla, “Detecting mali-
cious accounts on the ethereum blockchain with supervised learning,”
in Proc. Int. Symp. Cyber Security Cryptogr. Mach. Learn., Jul. 2020,
pp. 94–109.
[181] R. Kumar, P. Kumar, R. Tripathi, G. P. Gupta, S. Garg, and
M. M. Hassan, “A distributed intrusion detection system to detect
DDoS attacks in blockchain-enabled IoT network,” J. Parallel Distrib.
Comput., vol. 164, pp. 55–68, Jun. 2022.
[182] N. Sundareswaran and S. Sasirekha, “Packet filtering mechanism to
defend against DDoS attack in blockchain network,” in Evolutionary
Computing and Mobile Sustainable Networks, V. Suma, X. Fernando,
K.-L. Du, and H. Wang, Eds. Singapore: Springer, 2022, pp. 201–214.
[183] M. U. Hassan, M. H. Rehmani, and J. Chen, “Anomaly detec-
tion in blockchain networks: A comprehensive survey,” 2021,
arXiv:2112.06089.
[184] C. Bishop, Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning (Information
Science and Statistics). Berlin, Germany: Springer-Verlag, 2006.
[185] G. Nguyen et al., “Machine learning and deep learning frameworks
and libraries for large-scale data mining: A survey,” Artif. Intell. Rev.,
vol. 52, pp. 77–124, Jun. 2019.
[186] G. Karame, E. Androulaki, M. Roeschlin, A. Gervais, and S. Capkun,
“Misbehavior in bitcoin: A study of double-spending and account-
ability,” ACM Trans. Inf. System Security, vol. 18, pp. 1–32, May
2015.
[187] S. Dey, “Securing majority-attack in blockchain using machine learning
and algorithmic game theory: A proof of work,” in Proc. Comput. Sci.
Electron. Eng. (CEEC), Sep. 2018, pp. 7–10.
[188] R. S. Sutton and A. G. Barto, Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction.
Cambridge, U.K.: MIT Press, 1998.
[189] C. Szepesvári, “Reinforcement learning algorithms for MDPs—A sur-
vey,” Dept. Comput. Sci., Univ. Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada,
Rep. TR09-13, 2009.
[190] H. Kim, J. Park, M. Bennis, and S.-L. Kim, “Blockchained on-
device federated learning,” IEEE Commun. Lett., vol. 24, no. 6,
pp. 1279–1283, Jun. 2020.
[191] H. B. McMahan, E. Moore, D. Ramage, S. Hampson, and B. A. Arcas,
“Communication-efficient learning of deep networks from decentral-
ized data,” in Proc. Artif. Intell. Statist., Apr. 2017, pp. 1273–1282.
[192] M. Cao, L. Zhang, and B. Cao, “Toward on-device federated
learning: A direct acyclic graph-based blockchain approach,” IEEE
Trans. Neural Netw. Learn. Syst., early access, Aug. 30, 2021,
doi: 10.1109/TNNLS.2021.3105810.
[193] T. Baltrušaitis, C. Ahuja, and L.-P. Morency, “Multimodal machine
learning: A survey and taxonomy,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell., vol. 41, no. 2, pp. 423–443, Feb. 2019.
[194] F. O. Olowononi, D. B. Rawat, and C. Liu, “Resilient machine learning
for networked Cyber physical systems: A survey for machine learn-
ing security to securing machine learning for CPS,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 524–552, 1st Quart., 2021.
[195] N. C. Luong et al., “Applications of deep reinforcement learning in
communications and networking: A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 3133–3174, 4th Quart., 2019.
[196] E. Bout, V. Loscri, and A. Gallais, “How machine learning changes
the nature of cyberattacks on IoT networks: A survey,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 248–279, 1st Quart., 2022.
[197] Y. Wu, Z. Wang, Y. Ma, and V. C. Leung, “Deep reinforcement learning
for blockchain in industrial IoT: A survey,” Comput. Netw., vol. 191,
May 2021, Art. no. 108004.
[198] M. Dibaei et al., “Investigating the prospect of leveraging blockchain
and machine learning to secure vehicular networks: A survey,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 683–700, Feb. 2022.
[199] D. C. Nguyen et al., “Federated learning meets blockchain in edge
computing: Opportunities and challenges,” IEEE Internet Things J.,
vol. 8, no. 16, pp. 12806–12825, Aug. 2021.
[200] H. Tang, Y. Jiao, B. Huang, C. Lin, S. Goyal, and B. Wang, “Learning
to classify blockchain peers according to their behavior sequences,”
IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 71208–71215, 2018.
[201] S. Sayadi, S. B. Rejeb, and Z. Choukair, “Anomaly detection
model over blockchain electronic transactions,” in Proc. Int. Wireless
Commun. Mobile Comput. Conf. (IWCMC), Jun. 2019, pp. 895–900.
[202] T. Pham and S. Lee, “Anomaly detection in bitcoin network using
unsupervised learning methods,” 2016, arXiv:1611.03941.
[203] M. Shin, U. Baek, K. Shim, J. Park, S. Yoon, and M. Kim, “Block
analysis in bitcoin system using clustering with dimension reduction,”
in Proc. Asia-Pacific Netw. Oper. Manage. Symp. (APNOMS), Matsue,
Japan, Sep. 2019, pp. 1–4.
[204] M. A. Khan et al., “A machine learning approach for blockchain-
based smart home networks security,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35, no. 3,
pp. 223–229, May/Jun. 2021.
[205] H. Liu et al., “Blockchain and federated learning for collaborative intru-
sion detection in vehicular edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 70, no. 6, pp. 6073–6084, Jun. 2021.
[206] A. Bugday, A. Ozsoy, and H. Sever, “Securing blockchain shards by
using learning based reputation and verifiable random functions,” in
Proc. Int. Symp. Netw. Comput. Commun. (ISNCC), Istanbul, Turkey,
Jun. 2019, pp. 1–4.
[207] M. Liu, Y. Teng, F. R. Yu, V. C. M. Leung, and M. Song, “Deep
reinforcement learning based performance optimization in blockchain-
enabled Internet of Vehicle,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun. (ICC),
Shanghai, China, May 2019, pp. 1–6.
[208] S. Hu, Y.-C. Liang, Z. Xiong, and D. Niyato, “Blockchain and artificial
intelligence for dynamic resource sharing in 6G and beyond,” IEEE
Wireless Commun., vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 145–151, Aug. 2021.
[209] J. Kang et al., “Optimizing task assignment for reliable blockchain-
empowered federated edge learning,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol.,
vol. 70, no. 2, pp. 1910–1923, Feb. 2021.
[210] Z. Li, M. Xu, J. Nie, J. Kang, W. Chen, and S. Xie, “NOMA-enabled
cooperative computation offloading for blockchain-empowered Internet
of Things: A learning approach,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 4,
pp. 2364–2378, Feb. 2021.
[211] Z. Xiong, Y. Zhang, N. C. Luong, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and N. Guizani,
“The best of both worlds: A general architecture for data management
in blockchain-enabled Internet-of-Things,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 1,
pp. 166–173, Jan./Feb. 2020.
[212] T. Idé, “Collaborative anomaly detection on blockchain from noisy
sensor data,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Data Min. Workshops (ICDMW),
Singapore, Nov. 2018, pp. 120–127.
[213] N. C. Luong, T. T. Anh, H. T. T. Binh, D. Niyato, D. I. Kim, and
Y. Liang, “Joint transaction transmission and channel selection in cog-
nitive radio based blockchain networks: A deep reinforcement learning
approach,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Acoust., Speech Signal Process.
(ICASSP), May 2019, pp. 8409–8413.
[214] Y. Qu, S. R. Pokhrel, S. Garg, L. Gao, and Y. Xiang, “A blockchained
federated learning framework for cognitive computing in industry 4.0
networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 2964–2973,
Apr. 2021.
[215] Y. He, Y. Wang, C. Qiu, Q. Lin, J. Li, and Z. Ming, “Blockchain-based
edge computing resource allocation in IoT: A deep reinforcement learn-
ing approach,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2226–2237,
Feb. 2021.
[216] C. Qiu, X. Wang, H. Yao, J. Du, F. R. Yu, and
S. Guo, “Networking integrated cloud–edge–end in IoT:
A blockchain-assisted collective Q-learning approach,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 16, pp. 12694–12704,
Aug. 2021.
[217] M. A. Ferrag and L. Maglaras, “DeepCoin: A novel deep learning and
blockchain-based energy exchange framework for smart grids,” IEEE
Trans. Eng. Manag., vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 1285–1297, Nov. 2020.
[218] F. Jamil, N. Iqbal, A. S. Imran, S. Ahmad, and D. Kim, “Peer-to-peer
energy trading mechanism based on blockchain and machine learning
for sustainable electrical power supply in smart grid,” IEEE Access,
vol. 9, pp. 39193–39217, 2021.
[219] Y. Lalle, L. C. Fourati, M. Fourati, and J. P. Barraca, “A privacy-
protection scheme for smart water grid based on blockchain and
machine learning,” in Proc. 12th Int. Symp. Commun. Syst., Netw. Digit.
Signal Process. (CSNDSP), Porto, Portugal, Jul. 2020, pp. 1–6.
[220] C. Dai, X. Xiao, Y. Ding, L. Xiao, Y. Tang, and S. Zhou, “Learning
based security for VANET with blockchain,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf.
Commun. Syst. (ICCS), Chengdu, China, Dec. 2018, pp. 210–215.
[221] H. Liao, Y. Mu, Z. Zhou, M. Sun, Z. Wang, and C. Pan, “Blockchain
and learning-based secure and intelligent task offloading for vehicu-
lar fog computing,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 22, no. 7,
pp. 4051–4063, Jul. 2021.
[222] K.-A. Shim, “A survey of public-key cryptographic primitives in wire-
less sensor networks,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 18, no. 1,
pp. 577–601, 1st Quart., 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TNNLS.2021.3105810
384 IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, VOL. 25, NO. 1, FIRST QUARTER 2023
[223] T. M. Fernández-Caramés, “From pre-quantum to post-quantum IoT
security: A survey on quantum-resistant cryptosystems for the Internet
of Things,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 6457–6480, Jul.
2020.
[224] Q. Feng, D. He, S. Zeadally, M. K. Khan, and N. Kumar, “A survey
on privacy protection in blockchain system,” J. Netw. Comput. Appl.,
vol. 126, pp. 45–58, Jan. 2019.
[225] M. Li, J. Weng, A. Yang, J. Liu, and X. Lin, “Toward blockchain-
based fair and anonymous ad dissemination in vehicular networks,”
IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 11, pp. 11248–11259, Nov.
2019.
[226] M. D. Noel, O. V. Waziri, M. S. Abdulhamid, and A. J. Ojeniyi,
“Stateful hash-based digital signature schemes for bitcoin cryptocur-
rency,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Electron. Comput. Comput. (ICECCO), Dec.
2019, pp. 1–6.
[227] K. Chalkias, J. Brown, M. Hearn, T. Lillehagen, I. Nitto, and
T. Schroeter, “Blockchained post-quantum signatures,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Internet Things (iThings) IEEE Green Comput. Commun.
(GreenCom) IEEE Cyber, Phys. Social Comput. (CPSCom) IEEE Smart
Data (SmartData), Halifax, NS, Canada, Aug. 2018, pp. 1196–1203.
[228] M. Sato and S. Matsuo, “Long-term public blockchain: Resilience
against compromise of underlying cryptography,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Comput. Commun. Netw. (ICCCN), Vancouver, BC, Canada, Aug.
2017, pp. 1–8.
[229] S. Yaji, K. Bangera, and B. Neelima, “Privacy preserving in blockchain
based on partial homomorphic encryption system for AI applications,”
in Proc. IEEE 25th Int. Conf. High Perform. Comput. Workshops
(HiPCW), Bengaluru, India, Dec. 2018, pp. 81–85.
[230] P. Zhong, Q. Zhong, H. Mi, S. Zhang, and Y. Xiang, “Privacy-protected
blockchain system,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Mobile Data Manage.
(MDM), Hong Kong, China, Jun. 2019, pp. 457–461.
[231] Y. Rahulamathavan, R. C.-W. Phan, M. Rajarajan, S. Misra, and
A. Kondoz, “Privacy-preserving blockchain based IoT ecosystem
using attribute-based encryption,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Adv.
Netw. Telecommun. Syst. (ANTS), Bhubaneswar, India, Dec. 2017,
pp. 1–6.
[232] M. Zhang, S. Wang, P. Zhang, L. He, X. Li, and S. Zhou,
“Protecting data privacy for permissioned blockchains using identity-
based encryption,” in Proc. IEEE 3rd Inf. Technol., Netw., Electron.
Autom. Control Conf. (ITNEC), Chengdu, China, Mar. 2019,
pp. 602–605.
[233] M. Harikrishnan and K. V. Lakshmy, “Secure digital service payments
using zero knowledge proof in distributed network,” in Proc. Int. Conf.
Adv. Comput. Commun. Syst. (ICACCS), Coimbatore, India, Mar. 2019,
pp. 307–312.
[234] M. H. Murtaza, Z. A. Alizai, and Z. Iqbal, “Blockchain based anony-
mous voting system using zkSNARKs,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Appl. Eng.
Math. (ICAEM), Aug. 2019, pp. 209–214.
[235] D. Ding, K. Li, L. Jia, Z. Li, J. Li, and Y. Sun, “Privacy protection
for blockchains with account and multi-asset model,” China Commun.,
vol. 16, no. 6, pp. 69–79, Jun. 2019.
[236] Y. C. Tsai, R. Tso, Z. Liu, and K. Chen, “An improved non-interactive
zero-knowledge range proof for decentralized applications,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Decentralized Appl. Infrastruct. (DAPPCON), Newark,
CA, USA, Apr. 2019, pp. 129–134.
[237] A. S. Sani et al., “Xyreum: A high-performance and scalable
blockchain for IIoT security and privacy,” in Proc. IEEE 39th Int.
Conf. Distrib. Comput. Syst. (ICDCS), Dallas, TX, USA, Jul. 2019,
pp. 1920–1930.
[238] S. Zhu, H. Hu, Y. Li, and W. Li, “Hybrid blockchain design
for privacy preserving crowdsourcing platform,” in Proc. IEEE
Int. Conf. Blockchain (Blockchain), Atlanta, GA, Jul. 2019,
pp. 26–33.
[239] Z. Wan, Z. Guan, Y. Zhou, and K. Ren, “zk-AuthFeed: How to feed
authenticated data into smart contract with zero knowledge,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Blockchain (Blockchain), Jul. 2019, pp. 83–90.
[240] C. Liu, Y. Xiao, V. Javangula, Q. Hu, S. Wang, and X. Cheng,
“NormaChain: A blockchain-based normalized autonomous
transaction settlement system for IoT-based E-commerce,”
IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 4680–4693,
Jun. 2019.
[241] H. Kang, T. Dai, N. Jean-Louis, S. Tao, and X. Gu, “FabZK: Supporting
privacy-preserving, Auditable smart contracts in hyperledger fabric,” in
Proc. Annu. IEEE/IFIP Int. Conf. Dependable Syst. Netw. (DSN), Jun.
2019, pp. 543–555.
[242] J. Fan, X. Li, T. Nie, and Y. Ge, “Survey on smart contract based on
blockchain system,” Comput. Sci., vol. 46, no. 11, pp. 1–10, Mar. 2019.
[243] W. Kenton. “Killer application.” Accessed: 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://www.investopedia.com/terms/k/killerapplication.asp
[244] “Blockchain white paper.” China Academy of Information and
Communications Technology. Accessed: 2020. [Online]. Available:
http://www.caict.ac.cn/kxyj/qwfb/bps/202012/t20201230_367315.htm
Bin Cao (Senior Member, IEEE) is an Associate
Professor with the State Key Laboratory of Network
and Switching Technology, Beijing University of
Posts and Telecommunications. He received the
IEEE Outstanding Leadership Award in 2020, the
Best Paper Award at IEEE BMSB 2021, and the
IEEE TEMS Mid-Career Award in 2021. He is
an Associate Editor of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON
MOBILE COMPUTING and Digital Communications
and Networks, serves/served as a (Lead) Guest
Editor of IEEE Communications Magazine, IEEE
INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL
INFORMATICS, and IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, as well as the Co-Chair for
IEEE ICNC 2018, IEEE Blockchain 2020, and IEEE Globecom 2022. He is
the Founding Vice Chair of Special Interest Group on Wireless Blockchain
Networks in IEEE Cognitive Networks Technical Committee, and a Chief
Young Scientist of the National Key Research and Development Program of
China.
Zixin Wang received the M.E degree in
information and communication engineering
from the Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Chongqing, China, in 2020.
She is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the
State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching
Technology, Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Beijing, China. Her research
interests include blockchain and Internet of Things.
Long Zhang received the M.E degree in
information and communication engineering
from the Chongqing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Chongqing, China, in 2019.
He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with
the National Key Laboratory of Science and
Technology on Communications, University of
Electronic Science and Technology of China,
Chengdu, China. His research areas include next
generation mobile networks and Internet of Things.
Daquan Feng (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree in information engineering from the National
Key Laboratory of Science and Technology on
Communications, University of Electronic Science
and Technology of China, Chengdu, China, in 2015.
From 2011 to 2014, he was a visiting student with
the School of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA, USA.
After graduation, he was a Research Staff with State
Radio Monitoring Center, Beijing, China, and then
a Postdoctoral Research Fellow with the Singapore
University of Technology and Design, Singapore. Since 2016, he has been with
the College of Electronics and Information Engineering, Shenzhen University,
as an Assistant Professor and then an Associate Professor. His research
interests include URLLC communications, MEC, and massive IoT networks.
He is an Associate Editor of IEEE COMMUNICATIONS LETTERS, Digital
Communications and Networks, and ICT Express.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CAO et al.: BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND APPLICATIONS: A METHODOLOGY PERSPECTIVE 385
Mugen Peng (Fellow, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in communication and information
systems from the Beijing University of Posts
and Telecommunications (BUPT), Beijing, China,
in 2005. Afterward, he joined BUPT, where he
has been a Full Professor with the School of
Information and Communication Engineering since
2012. In 2014, he was an Academic Visiting Fellow
with Princeton University, Princeton, NJ, USA.
He leads a Research Group focusing on wireless
transmission and networking technologies with the
State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching Technology, BUPT. He
has authored/coauthored over 100 refereed IEEE journal papers and over
300 conference proceeding papers. He was a recipient of the 2018 Heinrich
Hertz Prize Paper Award, the 2014 IEEE ComSoc AP Outstanding Young
Researcher Award, and the Best Paper Award in the JCN 2016 and IEEE
WCNC 2015. He is on the Editorial/Associate Editorial Board of the IEEE
Communications Magazine, the IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, and
IEEE ACCESS.
Lei Zhang (Senior Member, IEEE) is a Professor
of Trustworthy Systems with the University of
Glasgow. He has academia and industry combined
research experience on wireless communications
and networks, and distributed systems for IoT,
blockchain, and autonomous systems. His 20 patents
are granted/filed in 30+ countries/regions. He pub-
lished three books and 150+ papers in peer-reviewed
journals, conferences, and edited books. He is an
Associate Editor of IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS
JOURNAL, IEEE WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS
LETTERS, and Digital Communications and Networks and a Guest Editor of
IEEE JOURNAL ON SELECTED AREAS IN COMMUNICATIONS. He received
the IEEE ComSoc TAOS Technical Committee Best Paper Award 2019 and the
IEEE ICEICT’21 Best Paper Award. He is the founding Chair of IEEE Special
Interest Group on Wireless Blockchain Networks in IEEE Cognitive Networks
Technical Committee (TCCN). He delivered tutorials in IEEE ICC’20, IEEE
PIMRC’20, IEEE Globecom’21, IEEE VTC’21 Fall, IEEE ICBC’21 and
EUSIPCO’21.
Zhu Han (Fellow, IEEE) received the B.S. degree
in electronic engineering from Tsinghua University
in 1997, and the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in elec-
trical and computer engineering from the University
of Maryland at College Park, College Park, in 1999
and 2003, respectively.
From 2000 to 2002, he was a Research and
Development Engineer of JDSU, Germantown,
Maryland. From 2003 to 2006, he was a Research
Associate with the University of Maryland. From
2006 to 2008, he was an Assistant Professor with
Boise State University, Idaho. He is Currently a John and Rebecca Moores
Professor with the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department as well
as in the Computer Science Department, University of Houston, Texas. His
research interests include wireless resource allocation and management, wire-
less communications and networking, game theory, big data analysis, security,
and smart grid. He received the NSF Career Award in 2010, the Fred W.
Ellersick Prize of the IEEE Communication Society in 2011, the EURASIP
Best Paper Award for the Journal on Advances in Signal Processing in 2015,
IEEE Leonard G. Abraham Prize in the field of Communications Systems
(best paper award in IEEE JSAC) in 2016, and several best paper awards in
IEEE conferences. He was an IEEE Communications Society Distinguished
Lecturer from 2015 to 2018 and has been a AAAS Fellow and a ACM distin-
guished Member since 2019. He has been a 1% highly cited researcher since
2017 according to Web of Science. He is also the winner of the 2021 IEEE
Kiyo Tomiyasu Award, for outstanding early to mid-career contributions to
technologies holding the promise of innovative applications, with the follow-
ing citation: “for contributions to game theory and distributed management of
autonomous communication networks.”
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:58:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-Condensed-Bold
    /Helvetica-LightOblique
    /HelveticaNeue-Bold
    /HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic
    /HelveticaNeue-Condensed
    /HelveticaNeue-CondensedObl
    /HelveticaNeue-Italic
    /HelveticaNeueLightcon-LightCond
    /HelveticaNeue-MediumCond
    /HelveticaNeue-MediumCondObl
    /HelveticaNeue-Roman
    /HelveticaNeue-ThinCond
    /Helvetica-Oblique
    /HelvetisADF-Bold
    /HelvetisADF-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Bold
    /HelvetisADFCd-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Italic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Regular
    /HelvetisADFEx-Bold
    /HelvetisADFEx-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFEx-Italic
    /HelvetisADFEx-Regular
    /HelvetisADF-Italic
    /HelvetisADF-Regular
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <FEFF004200720075006700200069006e0064007300740069006c006c0069006e006700650072006e0065002000740069006c0020006100740020006f007000720065007400740065002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e007400650072002c0020006400650072002000650067006e006500720020007300690067002000740069006c00200064006500740061006c006a006500720065007400200073006b00e60072006d007600690073006e0069006e00670020006f00670020007500640073006b007200690076006e0069006e006700200061006600200066006f0072007200650074006e0069006e006700730064006f006b0075006d0065006e007400650072002e0020004400650020006f007000720065007400740065006400650020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e0074006500720020006b0061006e002000e50062006e00650073002000690020004100630072006f00620061007400200065006c006c006500720020004100630072006f006200610074002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020006f00670020006e0079006500720065002e>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <FEFF30d330b830cd30b9658766f8306e8868793a304a3088307353705237306b90693057305f002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020658766f8306e4f5c6210306b4f7f75283057307e305930023053306e8a2d5b9a30674f5c62103055308c305f0020005000440046002030d530a130a430eb306f3001004100630072006f0062006100740020304a30883073002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee5964d3067958b304f30533068304c3067304d307e305930023053306e8a2d5b9a3067306f30d530a930f330c8306e57cb30818fbc307f3092884c3044307e30593002>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <FEFF005500740069006c0069007a006500200065007300730061007300200063006f006e00660069006700750072006100e700f50065007300200064006500200066006f0072006d00610020006100200063007200690061007200200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f0073002000410064006f00620065002000500044004600200061006400650071007500610064006f00730020007000610072006100200061002000760069007300750061006c0069007a006100e700e3006f002000650020006100200069006d0070007200650073007300e3006f00200063006f006e0066006900e1007600650069007300200064006500200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f007300200063006f006d0065007200630069006100690073002e0020004f007300200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f00730020005000440046002000630072006900610064006f007300200070006f00640065006d0020007300650072002000610062006500720074006f007300200063006f006d0020006f0020004100630072006f006200610074002000650020006f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e0030002000650020007600650072007300f50065007300200070006f00730074006500720069006f007200650073002e>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <FEFF0041006e007600e4006e00640020006400650020006800e4007200200069006e0073007400e4006c006c006e0069006e006700610072006e00610020006f006d002000640075002000760069006c006c00200073006b006100700061002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e007400200073006f006d00200070006100730073006100720020006600f60072002000740069006c006c006600f60072006c00690074006c006900670020007600690073006e0069006e00670020006f006300680020007500740073006b007200690066007400650072002000610076002000610066006600e4007200730064006f006b0075006d0065006e0074002e002000200053006b006100700061006400650020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e00740020006b0061006e002000f600700070006e00610073002000690020004100630072006f0062006100740020006f00630068002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020006f00630068002000730065006e006100720065002e>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice