Blockchain-enhanced Identities for Secure Interaction
Blockchain-enhanced Identities for
Secure Interaction
Dipto Chakravarty
Chief Technology Officer
Exostar, LLC
E-mail: dchakravarty@gmp4.hbs.edu
Tushar Deshpande
Department of Computer Science
Stony Brook University
E-mail: tushar.deshpande@gmail.com
Abstract—Securing identities in online communities like Face-
book and Google requires thinking beyond mobility and cloud as
federation methods can be gamed. While use of adaptive authen-
tication and biometrics on mobile devices has become the norm,
its security can be bolstered lot more with a distributed ledger
like blockchain. This paper presents an augmented security
model based on the blockchain distributed ledger, depicting how
blockchain can help us build decentralized identity ecosystem.
I. INTRODUCTION
Securing identities in online communities like Facebook
and Google requires thinking beyond mobility and cloud as
federation methods can be gamed. While use of adaptive
authentication and biometrics on mobile devices has become
the norm, its security can be bolstered lot more with a
distributed ledger like blockchain. Within a community of
users who do not necessarily trust each other, one can still
reach consensus over certain facts without having to employ
a central authority. This introduces the case of blockchain
to enhance the security model. The networked nature of the
blockchain not only enables decentralized administration; it
also makes the blockchain robust against attacks and natural
disasters. This is one of the reasons why blockchain-based
identity management has been proposed as a solution for
refugees [1]. In war, floods or fires, passports and other
important documents can easily be destroyed, but a blockchain
network lives on, just like the internet. This paper presents
an augmented security model based on blockchain distributed
ledger, illustrating how blockchain can form the foundation of
the decentralized identity ecosystem.
II. WHAT IS DIGITAL IDENTITY?
A digital identity can be defined as a set of claims made by
one digital subject about itself or another digital subject [2].
Digital subject is the digital representation of the person or the
thing that is being described, whereas a claim is an assertion
of a property about a subject. A claim needs to be attested.
E.g., the claim that a driver’s license id is S123456 needs to
be attested by the Registry of Motor Vehicles to be valid.
III. EVOLUTION OF IDENTITIES
The models for identity have evolved from centralized
identity to decentralized identity via the following stages [3]:
1) Centralized identity: They are controlled and adminis-
tered by a single authority. E.g., an organization assigns
and controls employee IDs of all its employees.
2) Federated identity: They make it possible for a single
identity to be used at multiple sites, thereby enabling
Single Sign-On (SSO). The multiple sites that support
federated identities need to use a standard, such as
SAML (Security Assertion Markup Language) to share
the authentication data.
3) User-Centric identity: They allow a user to share an
identity across multiple services without using federation.
Examples of such identities include OAuth and OpenID.
4) Self-sovereign identity: It is an identity that is fully
controlled by a subject. A self-sovereign identity can
be shared across multiple sites with user’s consent. It
consists of claims that a subject makes about itself as
well as the claims made about the subject by others. Since
no single central authority owns self-sovereign identities,
they can be supported using decentralized identity system.
IV. BLOCKCHAIN BASICS
Blockchain is a tamper-evident distributed ledger [4]. As
shown in Fig. 1, the use of hash pointers in blockchain to
chain together the data blocks ensures that it is impossible for
an attacker to modify an intermediate block without modifying
all subsequent blocks as well as the hash pointer at the head
of the list. The hash pointer at the head of the list is, however,
protected. So, any attempts by the attacker to modify the
blockchain can be easily detected.
The blockchain concept can also be understood from the
real-life example of Mumbai’s Dabbawallas [5]. These dab-
bawallas, or the lunch box carriers, deliver lunch boxes from
people’s homes to their workplaces. The first carrier receives
a lunch box from a home and writes the encoded locations
of the source and the destination addresses on the box. This
public information is validated by the carrier by including his
own signature on the box, thereby asserting that the source
and destination addresses are correct. Then, the carrier takes
the box to a nearby railroad station, where all boxes are
being collected. Now, another carrier picks up the box, verifies
that the box contains a valid signature from the previous
carrier, writes the name of the next collection point that is
closer to the destination, puts his own signature on the box,
978-1-5386-3443-1/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1. Schematic diagram of a blockchain
and takes the box to the next collection point. In this way,
eventually the lunch box is delivered to the destination. The
process of a carrier verifying the information on the box by
placing his own signature on the box is very similar to the
verification performed during bitcoin mining, where a miner
verifies transactions in the previous block by signing them.
Once the data in the new block is verified, the new block is
added at the end of the bitcoin blockchain.
V. DECENTRALIZED IDENTITY USING BLOCKCHAIN
In this section, we describe components of decentralized
identities and how they can be implemented using blockchain.
{
” @context ” : ” h t t p s : / / w3id . o rg / d i d / v1 ” ,
” i d ” : ” d i d : ex : johndoe ” ,
” pub l i cKey ” : [ {
” i d ” : ” d i d : ex : johndoe # key1 ” ,
” t y p e ” : ” RsaSigningKey2018 ” ,
” owner ” : ” d i d : ex : johndoe ” ,
” publicKeyPem ” : ”PUBLICKEY”
} ] ,
” a u t h e n t i c a t i o n ” : [ {
” t y p e ” : ” R s a S i g n a t u r e A u t h 2 0 1 8 ” ,
” pub l i cKey ” : ” d i d : ex : johndoe # key1 ” } ] ,
” s i g n a t u r e ” :{
” t y p e ” : ” R s a S i g n a t u r e 2 0 1 6 ” ,
” c r e a t o r ” : ” d i d : u p o r t :hQMGzWxR8# key / 1 ” ,
” s i g n a t u r e V a l u e ” : ” dw0yqie ”
}
}
Listing 1. Example of a decentralized identifier (DID) document
A. Decentralized Identity
As described in section III, decentralized identities are
owned by individual entities. Decentralized identities are
established using Decentralized Identifiers (DIDs) [6], [7].
These identifiers do not rely on a central authority. DIDs are
characterized by the following important properties [8]:
• DIDs are not governed by any central authority
• DIDs are persistent
• DIDs support authentication via cryptographic proofs,
such as digital signatures
DID documents are used to describe an entity that is being
represented using DIDs. A DID document contains the DID,
a set of public keys to verify the DID, a set of authentication
methods to authenticate the entity’s identity, and a signature
to support integrity. Listing 1 presents a DID document that
can be used to identify a person named John Doe [8].
B. Identity Trust Fabric (ITF)
Decentralized identity rely on identity trust fabric (ITF) [9].
ITF cryptographically stores proof of identifiers and profile
attributes. Information stored in ITF is also immutable. So,
ITF can be trusted by various entities involved in a distributed
identity system. Since ITF reduces the role of a central
authority in identity management (IdM), ITF acts as key
enabler for the distributed identities. A platform that aims to
serve as ITF needs to have the following properties:
• Trust: No single entity has enough authority to change
the system rules
• Assurance: The platform should provide adequate level
of identity assurance
• Security: The platform should provide integrity, confi-
dentiality, and availability
• Provenance: The platform should provide a trusted time
stamping service to record all data ever stored
• Scalability: The platform should support large volume of
read/write operations
C. Blockchain as ITF
As described in section IV, blockchain is a tamper-evident
distributed ledger. In a permissionless blockchain, no single
participating node has special privileges. All nodes partic-
ipate in a distributed consensus protocol to provide trust.
A distributed consensus protocol, such as the one used for
bitcoin mining [10], ensures that a block is added to the
blockchain only after the block data has been cryptographi-
cally verified. The distributed consensus protocol, therefore,
provides assurance. Blockchain’s tamper-evidence guarantees
the data integrity. Blockchain also provides data confidentiality
by ensuring that only one-way hash of data is stored in a
978-1-5386-3443-1/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 2. Centralized identity v/s distributed identity on blockchain. Blockchain ITF lowers the implementation cost by storing fixed sized identity proofs instead
of variable sized identity data. Also, since blockchain ITF does not store actual identity data, it improves the overall security by reducing risk.
block. Since blockchain is an append-only distributed ledger,
it provides a trusted chronological history of all blocks that
have been ever added to the blockchain. The blockchain, thus,
provides provenance. The distributed nature of blockchain
allows any node to easily join the blockchain, thereby making
the system highly scalable. Since the blockchain provides
trust, assurance, security, provenance, and scalability, it is very
well suited to perform the role of an ITF [9].
D. Advantages of implementing distributed identity on
blockchain ITF
As we can see from fig. 2, in a centralized identity, each
user interacts directly with the central identity provider. The
centralized identity provider is, therefore, required to imple-
ment an identity repository that fully controls and manages
all digital identities. This results in a high implementation
cost for the identity provider. The cost increases with the
number of digital identities that need to managed. The cost
also depends on the size of the digital identity data. Let us
denote the number of identities being managed as Nid and
the size of a single instance of identity data as Wid. The
total implementation cost for the central identity provider,
Costcentralized, can now be represented using equation (1),
where Kc is the proportionality constant.
Costcentralized = Kc ·Nid ·Wid (1)
Also, since all users directly interact with the identity
provider, the identity provider becomes an attractive target
for various security attacks. So, the risk associated with the
identity provider is high as well. The risk is proportional to the
number of identities being managed. So, the risk associated
with a centralized identity solution, Riskcentralized, can be
expressed using equation (2), where Kr is the proportionality
constant.
Riskcentralized = Kr ·Nid (2)
In a decentralized identity solution, users manage their
own identities [11]. So, the identity data is stored off-chain,
while the cryptographic identity proofs alone are stored within
blockchain ITF [12]. The cost to implement blockchain ITF
depends on the number of identity proofs to be stored. Since
there is one identify proof per identity, the cost depends on the
number of identities, Nid. The cost also depends on the size
of identity proofs. However, unlike identity data, the identity
proofs have a fixed size. So, the identity proof size can be rep-
resented as the constant value, Kid. The total implementation
cost for the decentralized identity provider, Costdecentralized,
therefore, can be represented using equation (3), where K ′c is
the proportionality constant.
Costdecentralized = K ′c ·Nid ·Kid (3)
Since in a decentralized identity solution, users manage their
own identities, the risk associated with storage of identity
data is distributed across all users. The blockchain provides
a trusted and secure ITF for the decentralized identity. So, as
shown by equation (4), a constant risk, K ′r is associated with
a decentralized identity solution.
Riskdecentralized = K ′r (4)
978-1-5386-3443-1/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3. Decentralized Identity Ecosystem
The constant identity proof size Kid is likely to be much
smaller than the arbitrarily sized identity data Wid. So, from
equations (1) and (3), we see that the implementation cost
for a decentralized identity solution would be smaller than
the implementation cost for a centralized identity solution.
Similarly, from equations (2) and (4), we see that the risk
associated with a decentralized identity solution is constant as
compared to the risk associated with a centralized identity
solution. The decentralized identity, therefore, significantly
reduces the risk.
Blockchain as ITF allows us to implement a decentralized
identity solution that minimizes the risk while also reducing
the implementation cost. So, as shown in Fig. 3, the blockchain
forms the foundation of the decentralized identity ecosystem.
VI. FUTURE WORK
As a future work, we intend to continue exploring various
use cases of blockchain as identity solution. More specifi-
cally, we would like to explore how blockchain can augment
government issued identification, beyond the approaches used
by existing solutions, such as ShoCard [13]. We would also
like to study how blockchain can enhance security by pro-
viding passwordless authentication. Combining Fast Identity
Online (FIDO) and blockchain seems to be a promising
approach to provide universal passwordless authentication via
blockchain [14].
VII. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we defined digital identities and showed how
digital identities are transitioning from centralized identities
towards decentralized identities. We discussed how decentral-
ized identifiers (DIDs) are used to establish digital identities.
We examined how blockchain provides a trusted distributed
ledger. We showed how the trust, assurance, security, prove-
nance, and scalability offered by blockchain enable it to be
used as the identity trust fabric (ITF) for implementing de-
centralized identity. Finally, we discussed the cost and the risk
associated with centralized and decentralized identity solutions
and showed how the blockchain as ITF lets us implement
decentralized identity solution that minimizes the risk, thereby
enhancing the security, while also reducing the solution cost.
REFERENCES
[1] “Blockchain against hunger: Harnessing technology in
support of syrian refugees,” May 2017. [Online].
Available: https://www.wfp.org/news/news-release/blockchain-against-
hunger-harnessing-technology-support-syrian-refugees
[2] K. Cameron, “The laws of identity,” May 2005. [Online]. Available:
https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms996456.aspx
[3] C. Allen, “The path to self-sovereign identity,” April 2016.
[Online]. Available: http://www.lifewithalacrity.com/2016/04/the-path-
to-self-soverereign-identity.html
[4] A. Narayanan, E. Felten, A. Miller, and G. S., Bitcoin and Cryptocur-
rency Technologies: A Comprehensive Introduction, 1st ed. Princeton
University Press, 2016.
[5] G. Sachdeva, “What is blockchain and why banks are so
interested in this technology?” October 2016. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/what-blockchain-why-banks-so-
interested-technology-gaurav-sachdeva/
[6] D. Reed, M. Sporny, D. Longley, C. Allen, R. Grant, and M. Sabadello,
“Decentralized identifiers (DIDs): Data model and syntaxes for
decentralized identifiers (DIDs),” August 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://w3c-ccg.github.io/did-spec/
[7] P. Dunphy and F. A. P. Petitcolas, “A first look at identity management
schemes on the blockchain,” IEEE Security Privacy, vol. 16, no. 4, pp.
20–29, July 2018.
[8] D. Reed, “Decentralized identifiers (DIDs): The fundamental building
block of self-sovereign identity (SSI),” May 2018. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://www.slideshare.net/SSIMeetup/decentralized-identifiers-
dids-the-fundamental-building-block-of-selfsovereign-identity-ssi
[9] H. Farahmand, “Blockchain: The dawn of decentralized identity,”
September 2016. [Online]. Available: https://www.gartner.com/doc/
3464117/blockchain-dawn-decentralized-identity
[10] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” 2008
(http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf).
[11] C. Jagers, “Digital identity and the blockchain,” June 2017. [Online].
Available: https://medium.com/learning-machine-blog/digital-identity-
and-the-blockchain-10de0e7d7734
[12] P. Vigna and M. Casey, The Truth Machine: The Blockchain and the
Future of Everything, 1st ed. St. Martin’s Press, 2018.
[13] “Travel identity of the future,” May 2016. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://shocard.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/travel-identity-
of-the-future.pdf
[14] “FIDO authentication and blockchain,” May 2017.
[Online]. Available: https://www.slideshare.net/FIDOAlliance/fido-
authentication-blockchain
978-1-5386-3443-1/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:46 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.