CHANG_LAYOUT.indd
IEEE Network • January/February 202186 0890-8044/21/$25.00 © 2021 IEEE
AbstrAct
The future mobile communication system is 
expected to provide ubiquitous connectivity and 
unprecedented services over billions of devices. 
The flying drone, also known as unmanned aerial 
vehicle, is prominent in its flexibility and low cost, 
and has emerged as a significant network entity 
to realize such ambitious targets. However, the 
distributed nature makes the operation of a large-
scale drone network confront many challenges, 
such as vulnerability to security threats and priva-
cy leakage. To address these problems, in this arti-
cle, we propose to utilize the blockchain concept 
to the development of drone network. Under the 
proposed blockchain-empowered drone networks 
(BeDrone), drones that are deployed for service 
provisioning can act as the miners of blockchain, 
and acquire the computing resources from each 
other or an edge computing node whenever 
needed. Recommendations and future research 
directions for designing BeDrone are introduced 
with a focus on the game theoretic incentive 
mechanism for resource allocation and acquisi-
tion. Performance evaluations are conducted to 
illustrate the benefits of the proposed architecture 
on developing blockchain-envisioned drones.
IntroductIon
The increasing demand for high-quality wireless 
services urges the future wireless communica-
tion system to provide ubiquitous connectivity 
and coverage over all kinds of mobile devices. 
To realize the vision of unlimited access to wire-
less data anywhere and anytime for anything, the 
recent emerging drone-based flying platforms are 
expected to break the limitations of traditional 
network infrastructure [1]. The drone, also known 
as unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), has attracted 
much attention recently due to its prominence in 
flexibility, configuration, and low-cost deployment 
[2]. An on-demand drone-based mobile communi-
cation system can provide a cost- and energy-effi-
cient solution to complement the current wireless 
network [2].
In addition to extending the terrestrial cellular 
network, drones are expected to be harnessed for 
public, civil, and military applications, such as sur-
veillance, disaster management, medical supplies, 
public safety, and transportation management. 
Moreover, advances in sensor and other technol-
ogies have widened the functions of the drone 
network to include many new applications, such 
as prediction and sensing. As seen in Fig. 1, the 
requirement for a large number of network-based 
services in the smart city may be complemented 
by the usage of a wide scale of different types of 
drones in the air, such as medical drones, delivery 
drones, cellular drones, and sensing drones. Fur-
thermore, drones equipped with different sensors 
can be applied to other application areas, such as 
smart industry, smart agriculture, and smart grid. 
Therefore, the drones will become indispensable 
in the era of the Internet of Things (IoT) and sure-
ly play a profound rule in the evolution of wireless 
networks.
While having potential to significantly advance 
the development of many different technologies, 
the inherent nature of a drone network requires 
considerable research efforts in order to be suc-
cessfully implemented. Some examples:
• The drones usually have inconsistent ener-
gy supply, which leads to the fact that they are 
commonly resource-starved. Flying over the air 
contributes a large part of overall energy con-
sumption and leaves less space for other opera-
tions. Thus, compared to the cellular network, the 
drone-based network will have limited radio and 
computational resource/capabilities due to low 
energy supply.
• The distributed nature and lack of resourc-
es make the drone network vulnerable to 
attack. Centralized control and distribut-
ed execution may pose profound security 
threats. A single point of failure can result in 
the disability of the whole network.
• Due to its high mobility architecture, the 
topology and links of the drone network 
keep changing over the time horizon. In 
addition, depending on the applications, 
the drones may move at different veloci-
ties, which means that there will be a large 
amount of signaling overhead between the 
distant central controller and the drones, and 
stringent requirements on the transmission 
latency.
As one can observe, to fully explore the 
potential benefits of a drone network and obtain 
a secure and distributed architecture, advanced 
approaches and mechanisms are needed. Block-
chain, which has mainly been used for cryp-
to-currency technology, may provide promising 
solutions for the management of drone networks. 
As a well-known decentralized ledger-based sys-
tem, blockchain is able to provide secure transac-
tions and trust in a trustless network environment. 
Blockchain-Empowered Drone Networks: Architecture, Features, and Future
Zheng Chang, Wenlong Guo, Xijuan Guo, Tao Chen, Geyong Min, Khamael M. Abualnaja, and Shahid Mumtaz
BLOCKCHAIN-ENVISIONED DRONES: REALIZING 5G-ENABLED 
FLYING AUTOMATION
Digital Object Identifier:
10.1109/MNET.011.2000202
Zheng Chang is with the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China and also with the University of Jyväskylä;  
Wenlong Guo and Xijuan Guo are with Yanshan University; Tao Chen is with VTT Technical Research Centre of Finland;  
Geyong Min is with the University of Exeter; Khamael M. Abualnaja is with Taif University; Shahid Mumtaz is with Instituto de Telecomunicaçóes.
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   86CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   86 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 2021 87
Correspondingly, blockchain has recently evolved 
to wide computer and Internet applications from 
digital currency due to its transparent, retrospec-
tive, tamper-resistant, and decentralized features. 
In general, a blockchain ledger comprises three 
main concepts: transaction, block, and chain. 
All the valuable information broadcasted within 
a blockchain can be treated as a transaction. A 
block can be seen as storage that packs specifi c 
data about cryptographic transactions. Based on 
its hash value, the identity of each block is unique, 
and it is referenced by the next block. Such a pro-
cedure constructs a link among the blocks, which 
essentially creates a chain of blocks. As described, 
two processes are involved in the generation of 
blockchain. The fi rst one is computing, which also 
refers to the consensus process, for example, solv-
ing the proof of work (PoW) in Bitcoin. The node 
(or so-called miner) in blockchain executes some 
computation tasks to obtain an unverifi ed block. 
The second one is reporting/releasing. When the 
nodes successfully address the consensus pro-
tocol, they can report the result to blockchain 
for verifi cation. The miners will reach consensus 
when the verification is correct and then obtain 
rewards caused by the computing for the con-
sensus process (or so-called mining). As we can 
see, blockchain has great potential to provide a 
secure IoT platform, especially when the number 
of devices is large. In this work, the concept and 
features of the blockchain-empowered drone net-
work (BeDrone), as presented in Fig. 2, are intro-
duced to shed light on the secure and efficient 
management of drone networks.
BeDrone is able to reap the benefi ts of block-
chain and address the challenges of a drone 
network due to its advantages of anonymity, pri-
vacy preservation, and decentralization. In the 
BeDrone, the drones can act as the miners of the 
blockchain and record all the operational data. 
Moreover, edge computing will be integrated, 
which is considered as an alternative solution for 
providing computational and storage resource 
whenever needed. There are several benefits of 
introducing blockchain and edge computing to 
drone networks, which are briefl y listed as follows:
• First, with blockchain-based decentralization, 
the communication overhead and burden 
of the central controller could be lessened. 
Moreover, the impact of a single point of 
failure is also signifi cantly reduced.
• Second, security and privacy of the drone 
network can be enhanced by the encryp-
tion algorithm and consensus mechanism of 
blockchain. By leveraging consensus, one or 
some drones can be identifi ed.
• Furthermore, as blockchain is essentially a 
public ledger and all the drones can audit its 
stored information, BeDrone provides a trust 
platform for further data processing.
To explore the advantages of blockchain on 
the design of a drone network, in this article, we 
introduce the BeDrone architecture and present 
a game-theoretic incentive scheme for resource 
allocation and trading in the BeDrone. The 
remainder of this article is organized as follows. 
First, a brief survey about the design of a drone 
network and the application of mobile blockchain 
are provided. The architecture of BeDrone is 
provided, along with its features and challenges. 
Moreover, we utilize game theory and present a 
resource trading scheme for BeDrone manage-
ment, and evaluate its performance. Finally, we 
explore future directions and conclude this work.
overvIew of drone network And 
mobIle blockchAIn
It can be found that the drone network will 
become a signifi cant complement to the current 
terrestrial cellular infrastructure [1, 2]. In addition, 
as the drone-based platform is highly flexible, it 
can be used for many mission-critical applications 
concerning civilian life, such as disaster manage-
ment and surveillance [1, 3]. Because of all these 
potential advantages, the dedicated research 
efforts on the drone-based network or commu-
nications system have mainly concentrated on 
drone coordination, placement, and resource 
optimization [1]. Recently, the integration of 
drone and edge computing has also received con-
siderable research interest [4, 5]. Generally, apply-
ing edge computing to the IoT system is able to 
bring the computational resources closer to the 
network users [6]. In this context, drones are usu-
ally considered as edge computing nodes provid-
ing computational resources to ground users or 
as relays forwarding a computing task to the edge 
node in their vicinity.
Meanwhile, apart from being dedicated to 
digital currency, blockchain has recently evolved 
to broad IoT applications due to its transparent, 
retrospective, tamper-resistant, and decentral-
ized features [7]. Recently, there is increasing 
research interest in exploring the blockchain in 
the edge computing system [8–12]. The integra-
tion of blockchain and edge computing enables 
the management of network access, computa-
tion, and storage at the edge, which can enrich 
the network services and applications in a secure 
manner [8, 9]. To further accelerate the block-
chain applications in the IoT and edge computing 
paradigms, there are some efforts on investigat-
ing the computational off loading schemes where 
the IoT devices can act as the miners and off load 
the computational requests (e.g., for solving the 
PoW) to the nearby edge nodes [10, 11]. Simi-
larly, some researchers explore game-theoretic 
approaches to investigate how the service pro-
FIGURE 1. UAV network in a smart city environment.
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   87CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   87 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 202188
vider set the price and rent the computational 
resources to the miners [12, 13] The integration 
of blockchain and edge computing has great 
potential to provide secure and efficient solu-
tions for the drone network paradigm. Howev-
er, although some works are dedicated to using 
a blockchain-based resource sharing scheme 
among drones [14], there are few works discuss-
ing the potential of using blockchain for drone 
networks and operations, which motivates us to 
explore in this direction.
ArchItecture of bedrone
To reap the benefi ts of blockchain on designing 
the drone network, we introduce the architecture 
and concept of BeDrone in this section. We fi rst 
present the system model, features, and applica-
tions. The implementation issues and challenges 
are then discussed.
system model
As described, mining is the core of the block-
chain-based system and requires considerable com-
puting and storage capabilities. Before adding or 
publishing to the blockchain, some complex com-
putation problems (e.g., PoW puzzle) are solved 
to secure the integrity and validity of transactions. 
Correspondingly, security and privacy of the sys-
tem depend on the overall mining and consensus 
mechanisms, which are highly aff ected by the com-
puting and storage capabilities of the miners.
As drones are usually resource-limited, edge com-
puting can play a crucial role in the BeDrone. The 
drones can rent computing and storage resourc-
es from an edge service provider (ESP) to carry 
on the blockchain process. In practice, the trade 
between the drones and ESPs can be performed 
in such a way that the drones offload the com-
putation tasks to the edge nodes for execution. 
The BeDrone system has three layers: the man-
agement layer (MaLayer), the resource layer 
(ReLayer), and the drone layer (DroLayer). In the 
DroLayer, drones are deployed over a relative-
ly large area and are able to communicate with 
each other over dedicated communication chan-
nels. They not only need to execute their own 
missions, but also record their missions or opera-
tion data. These drones are the potential miners in 
the blockchain. In the ReLayer, the actual block-
chain process and the resource trading and allo-
cation are performed. In the MaLayer, the ESP is 
able to manage its resources and make the deci-
sion, in addition to the authorization process by 
the controller. The functions of the main entities 
in the BeDrone are summarized as follows.
Drone: The drones are mainly deployed for 
performing various missions, such as extending 
the terrestrial cellular network, data collection, 
and surveillance. The operation records and other 
types of data can be added to the formulated 
blockchain to ensure the security and privacy. As 
the drones have limited resources in computing 
units and energy battery in order to relieve the 
computation-intensive challenge of establishing 
a blockchain, the drones can require resources 
from the edge nodes in proximity. Moreover, 
some powerful drones can also act as resource 
providers by renting its resources to others. Essen-
tially, these drones can be considered as edge 
nodes as well. Thus, in this work, we consider 
edge nodes owned by the ESP to be the main 
resource providers.
Controller/Authority: A controller is essen-
tial for a drone network, and it is responsible for 
network control and initialization. It can carry out 
the encryption process by managing the drones’ 
identities and authorizations. It also generates 
parameters and cryptographic keys. Note that in 
this system, the controller/authority only acts as 
the initializer for identity authorization and key 
parameters before establishing the blockchain of 
the drone network. The controller remains off line 
and has no impact after the blockchain has been 
built, which indicates that decentralization of the 
blockchain will not be disrupted.
ESP/Edge Node: As shown in Fig. 2, an edge 
node basically comprises two components, that 
is, a storage server and a computing server. Upon 
request, the computing server provides compu-
tational resources to the drones to complete the 
process of block generation and validation. In 
addition, the storage server can store the real-time 
transaction records and also trading-related infor-
mation, such as the price announcement and ser-
vice demand if needed. With a properly designed 
incentive mechanism, the ESPs who own the edge 
nodes and resources can set the price, and make 
the decision on how to provide resources to the 
drones.
feAtures And ImPlementAtIon
The considered scenario has a wide application 
area, including cellular drone networks, surveil-
lance, weather estimation, remote sensing, med-
ical supplies, public safety, and transportation 
management. In these applications, the operation-
al and collected data of drones will be crucial for 
network management. The security and privacy 
of these data will be profound as a single leak-
age may cause damage of the whole network. In 
the proposed system, the drones will act as the 
miners of the blockchain, and they will request 
computing resources from the ESP when its hash 
power is insuffi  cient.
The main operation processes of blockchain in 
BeDrone is described as follows. First, the drone 
sends the request to the whole network when a 
transaction happens. Second, when the security 
of the transaction can be verifi ed, the blockchain 
begins to execute the transaction. The genera-
tion of a block begins, and the drones participate 
in the computing of new blocks by using hash 
power. Interaction between drones and the ESP/
edge computing system is needed. The drones 
can purchase or rent the resources from the ESP 
FIGURE 2. Blockchain-empowered drone network (BeDrone).
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   88CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   88 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 2021 89
to execute the computation tasks. The amount of 
purchased resource depends on the task require-
ment, the associated cost, and the received 
reward. The ESP can also announce the price of 
its resources during the interaction. Therefore, a 
resource allocation and trading scheme is need-
ed here to support drones with limited comput-
ing capability. New blocks reach consensus after 
obtaining the results of, for example, PoW, and 
miners can receive their rewards. Finally, the 
blockchain network transmits the data to drones 
for the next actions. The implementation process 
is described in Algorithm 1.
chAllenges In lImItAtIons of resource
Note that during the whole process, due to lim-
ited computing power, a drone can turn to an 
ESP for edge computing service, which means 
that integrating edge computing is essential. 
Exploiting the blockchain in the drone network 
will provide a promising solution for coping with 
the security and privacy threats of drones. In the 
blockchain-based system, the computing capabili-
ty is the key to the performance. Then, as drones 
usually have limited resources and different tasks, 
how to incentivize the drones to participate in the 
blockchain process and obtain the computational 
resources from an ESP is the major challenge to 
realize the BeDrone. In this aspect, we propose 
a novel Stackelberg-game-based incentive mech-
anism in order to find the optimal pricing for the 
ESP and purchase strategy for the drones, respec-
tively.
resource AllocAtIon And trAdIng In bedrone
gAme formulAtIon
As described, computing resource acquisition 
is pivotal for the success of BeDrone. Thus, the 
development of a resource allocation and trad-
ing scheme in BeDrone is of great importance. In 
this section, to incentivize the ESP to provide its 
computing resources and encourage the drones 
to participate in the blockchain, the interactions 
between these two parties are explored. Game 
theory is well known for its ability to describe 
and analyze interactive decision situations. Over 
recent decades, there has been growing inter-
est in applying game-theoretic approaches to 
investigate the resource allocations in wireless 
communication systems. In this work, an incen-
tive mechanism is explored via the single-leader 
multiple-follower Stackelberg game model, where 
the ESP is the leader and drones are the followers. 
Accordingly, a two-stage Stackelberg game is 
introduced to investigate the relations and inter-
actions between the ESP and drones. The objec-
tive of the formulated game is to find an optimal 
pricing strategy for the ESP (leader), assuming that 
the drones (followers) are rational and can reac-
tively set the purchase strategy to optimize their 
objective functions. In the first stage, the ESP sets 
the price Q = {q1, q2 …} for each drone based on 
its provided services. The utility/profit of the ESP 
is denoted as uesp which is related to the pricing 
and cost. The objective of the first stage is to max-
imize uesp via optimizing pricing and purchase 
strategies.
The main target of the second stage is for the 
drones to determine the demand for resources, 
according to the price strategy of the ESP, the 
associated cost, and possible rewards. In the BeD-
rone, reward R of a drone can consist of three 
parts: fixed reward, performance reward, and 
participant reward. The performance reward is 
related to the size of a block, and the participant 
reward is related to degree of participation (com-
puting capability). We can assume that the pur-
chase strategy (resource demand) of drone i is si 
and its utility/profit is ui. The objective is then to 
maximize the utility of these drones via optimizing 
pricing and purchase strategies.
We can see that in order to reach the Stack-
elberg equilibrium (SE) of the formulated game, 
a two-stage iterative algorithm is needed. In the 
first stage, the ESP presents its price strategy for 
its computing resources upon request. In the sec-
tion stage, the drones with demand can compete 
for these resources in a non-cooperative fash-
ion. Backward induction is used to find the SE of 
the formulated game. When the Nash equilibri-
um (NE) of the sub-game in the second stage is 
reached, the ESP shows its reaction by renewing 
its price strategy according to the purchase strate-
gies of drones. Through the analysis of the game 
in each stage, the local optimal strategy can be 
reached, and the global optimal solution of the 
whole game is derived.
ALGORITHM 1. Implementation of BeDrone.
1: System Initialization and Key Generation: Each drone will be registered on the trusted authority (e.g., controller) and be a legit-
imate entity obtaining certificate and public/privacy key. The certificate of the drone is relevant to the registration information which can 
uniquely identify itself, such as the license plate number. A set of wallet addresses stored in the account pool will be given to the drones 
by the authority. Drone executes the system initialization and downloads the last wallet data from the storage of edge nodes, which is able 
to store all history transaction records. 
2: Creation of Transactions: The transactions could be the operational data, collected data or any useful data that can be shared 
among all the drones in a certain period. For instance, a drone for logistic or traffic management can share the encrypted surrounding/
road information among each other. 
3: Building Blocks and Finding PoW: The drones which have collected a set of transactions pack the transactions into a block and 
performs mining. Each drone competes to create a block by finding a valid PoW and the mined block is then broadcast to notify other 
drones in the blockchain. 
3: Block Verification with Consensus Process: All of the drones audit the transaction records, referred as the consensus process. The 
consensus generates an unique hash value for each block in blockchain. This cryptographic value is used to connect the previous block in 
the blockchain for traceability and verification. 
4: Establishing a new block: If the block is proved effective by majority of the drones, the transaction information will be stored in the 
appended block at the end of the current blockchain. The blocks are added to the blockchain in a linear chronological order. Finally, the 
drones are rewarded in a certain way. 
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   89CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   89 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 202190
The developed game theoretic approach is 
expected to adapt to the features of BeDrone. 
Thus, in the following, two diff erent mining mech-
anisms that diff er in reporting processes in block-
chain are specifi cally investigated. The fi rst mining 
mechanism, referred to as immediate reporting 
(IR), works in such a way that after successfully 
computing, the drone will report immediately. The 
other one, which is called strategical reporting 
(SR), allows the drones to temporarily hide their 
solutions and report strategically after successfully 
computing.
gAme AnAlysIs of Ir And sr
Game Analysis of IR: As for IR, the existence and 
uniqueness of the NE of the second stage should 
be found first. In IR, the utility of the drone is 
related to the reward and cost. We assume that 
the defi ned utility function ui,IR is continuous and 
strictly convex w.r.t. si. Then, based on the results 
and discussions in [12], we can fi nd the existence 
of the NE. Moreover, the uniqueness of the NE 
is also of interest and should be explored. This 
is due to the fact if there are multiple Nash equi-
libria, coordinating all the drones to converge to 
the same NE will be difficult. According to the 
discussions in [15], and if utility function ui,IR
is continuous and strictly convex, a unique NE 
exists in the IR. With knowledge of the existence 
and uniqueness of the NE, the optimal strategy 
of drones can be obtained by applying Karush-
Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) conditions and the Lagrangian 
method under possible constraints.
Then we turn to the game analysis of the fi rst 
stage. The pricing strategy of the ESP depends on 
the requests of the drones, that is, S = {s1, s2 …}. 
Thus, after obtaining the solution of the second 
stage, we can derive the pricing of the ESP with 
the objective to obtain the optimal utility. Here, 
it is also assumed that uesp is a convex function 
w.r.t. qi. Accordingly, a Q* that enables the ESP 
to achieve the optimal utility must exist [15]. Sim-
ilarly, the KKT conditions and Lagrangian method 
can be applied to obtain the optimal qi*.
With the optimal purchase strategy si* of 
drone i, the optimal pricing of the resources to 
each drone qi* can be obtained. Therefore, both 
the ESP and drones can obtain the optimal util-
ities under the combination of strategies (S*, 
Q*), which is essentially the SE of the game. To 
this end, the backward induction method is then 
applied to find the SE of this two-stage Stackel-
berg game to reach a global optimal solution. 
Once the optimal purchase strategy of the drones 
is solved, we can obtain the pricing strategy of 
the ESP.
Game Analysis in SR: When drones are in the 
blockchain process, some of them may prefer not 
to report their results of transactions immediate-
ly due to the their stronger hash power. Instead, 
they can choose to temporarily hold their solu-
tions. Then the SR mining scheme instead of IR is 
applied here for the drones with a certain level of 
hash power to achieve a better reward. However, 
a drone may suffer from using SR as others can 
report their results earlier. That is, although using 
SR can make the drone achieve a better reward, 
the drone may encounter more risk of generating 
a chain of abandoned blocks.
In SR, after successfully mining block m, drone 
i can obtain a profi t um
i,SR that is related to reward, 
cost, the probability that the drone successful-
ly announces the solutions of the PoW, and the 
profit obtained by computing (m – 1) blocks. 
While we also consider a continuous and con-
vex utility function w.r.t si, similar to the previous 
study, the existence and uniqueness of an NE 
can be found. The optimal purchase strategy is 
FIGURE 3. Flow of the resource trading.
Start
Define utility 
function of 
drone
If convex
Proof of existence of
Nash Equilibrium
If there is a NE
Proof of uniqueness of
Nash Equilibrium
If there is an
unique NE
Optimal service 
demand 
Define utility function 
of ESP
Optimal pricing policy 
for ESP
Optimal service 
demand and pricing 
policy 
End
Applying backward 
induction
Report?
Next block
Immediate Reporting Strategic Reporting
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Start
Define utility 
function of 
drone
If convex
Proof of existence of
Nash Equilibrium
If there is a NE
Proof of uniqueness of
Nash Equilibrium
If there is an
unique NE
Yes
No
Yes
No
Yes
No
Optimal service 
demand 
Applying backward 
induction
Define utility function 
of ESP
Optimal pricing policy 
for ESP
Yes
No
Optimal service 
demand and pricing 
policy 
End
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   90CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   90 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 2021 91
achieved by addressing a set of equations that are 
formed by applying KKT conditions and so on, for 
example, letting the partial derivative of um
i,SR w.r.t. 
variable si equal zero. To find the optimal pricing 
of the ESP and the optimal purchase strategies of 
the drones, the derived si is needed. As defined, 
the utility uesp of the ESP is strictly convex w.r.t. 
qi. After finding the optimal purchase strategy S* 
of all the drones, the optimal pricing Q* of ESP 
can be achieved by applying the KKT condition. 
Backward induction is then used to find the SE of 
the overall game, which can optimize the utilities 
of both parties.
The flowchart containing incentive processes 
of both IR and SR schemes is shown in Fig. 3. As 
analyzed, we can see that SE exists for both IR 
and SR schemes given the defined utility function, 
which indicates that for both mining schemes, 
optimal strategies (S*, Q*) exist.
cAse study And PerformAnce evAluAtIon
In this section, we present a case study to validate 
the performance of the proposed mechanisms. 
To simplify the evaluation, we assume that the 
drones do not have hash power, which means 
that all the hash power should be purchased 
from the ESP. As stated, the reward that a drone 
can obtain consists of fixed reward, performance 
reward, and participant reward. Here, in order to 
find the impact of different award factors, we con-
sider the reward R to be defined as 
R = Rf + bp + gai,
where Rf is the fixed reward, b is an evaluation 
factor, p is the size of a block, and g is an eval-
uation factor for the participant award. ai, which 
indicates computing capability, is the hash power 
proportion of miner i in the whole network.
Figure 4 shows a three-dimensional plot of  
the relations among price of the ESP, computing 
capability, and the profit of the drone for the SR 
scheme. In Fig. 4, stronger computing capability 
leads to a higher profit when the price is fixed. 
This is because the participant reward is deter-
mined by the computing capability when solving 
the PoW puzzle, and the reward is dominant in 
this case. We can also observe that when the 
price increases, the profit decreases under the 
condition of fixed computing capability. It can 
also be found that the profit can increase with 
the increase of computing capability if the price 
does not change too much, which indicates 
computing capability has a better impact on the 
profit.
Figure 5 explores the reward probability of 
both IR and SR schemes when considering differ-
ent computing capabilities and transaction sizes. 
In general, the reward performance when using 
IR is better than when using SR. As the trans-
action size increments, the reporting/reward-
ing probability reduces, which is caused by the 
incremental complexity of computing. It can also 
be found that as more hash power can be advo-
cated for computing, the growth of computing 
capability leads to better performance. More-
over, if a bigger transaction size or more drones 
are considered, more resources can be allocated 
to the drones with demand by using the incen-
tive schemes.
future reseArch dIrectIons
As we can see, there is great research potential 
to integrate the blockchain and edge computing 
in the development of drone networks. However, 
there are still many challenges ahead concerning 
computational resources, algorithm development, 
efficiency, privacy, and security. In the following, 
we present the obstacles that may prevent the 
design of our proposed architecture and point out 
possible research directions.
PredIctIon of stAte of the drones
In the BeDrone, accurate knowledge of the sta-
tus (e.g., demand, link quality position, and data 
acquisition) of the drones is beneficial for carrying 
out the resource trading process. As the drone 
system is highly dynamic, the status of each drone 
is not easy to precise and timely evaluation. Thus, 
it is possible to explore machine learning or some 
other advanced techniques to dynamically pre-
dict the drones’ status and make more accurate 
FIGURE 4. Price and computing capability vs. profits.
FIGURE 5. Transaction size vs. the probability of reward.
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   91CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   91 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 202192
decisions. However, applying advanced learning 
technique requires considerable computational 
resources and data input. Therefore, sophisticated 
optimization schemes are preferred to alleviate 
the computational burden and make the decision 
making process more accurate.
ultrA-relIAble trAnsmIssIon In A drone network
In the traditional propagation phase, a mined 
block may fail to be propagated or broadcast due 
to the possible high mobility and latency among 
drones. Furthermore, the topology of the drones 
will change at high velocity, which can also make 
the blockchain process challenging. In addition, 
the control signaling between the drones and 
the controller is crucial for drone control, secure 
key generation, and so on. There will be frequent 
communications among the drones, and between 
the drones and edge nodes. Thus, the commu-
nication overhead of such a drone platform will 
be relatively high. In addition, the quality of radio 
links and access control also impact the communi-
cations within BeDrone, which may pose an extra 
bottleneck to the information exchange between 
edge computing units and drones, and the con-
sensus process. Therefore, ultra-reliable and 
efficient transmission schemes within the drone 
network are worth considerable and dedicated 
efforts.
develoPment of the edge comPutIng system
The edge computing framework should be further 
improved to increase the data rate or decrease 
the latency to avoid the requests being discarded 
from the transmission point of view. Furthermore, 
the current incentives in the edge computing sys-
tem are formulated as a two-stage Stackelberg 
game, which cannot maximize the social welfare 
of drones and service providers. Therefore, as one 
future research direction, a social welfare opti-
mization scheme can be further developed, and 
different types of service providers can be taken 
into consideration.
gAme formulAtIon
There are some potential threats that may impact 
the incentive mechanism of the BeDrone. First, 
drones/miners may not be completely rational, 
which results in failure of the incentive mecha-
nism. In addition, drones who have stronger 
computing capability may choose to strategically 
release the calculated solution to obtain more 
profits by hiding a chain of blocks, which leads 
to “withholding block attack.” Moreover, a selfish 
drone is primarily an attack on the mining and 
incentive mechanism. Therefore, it would be bet-
ter to further explore sophisticated game theoret-
ic approaches to the development of BeDrone.
APPlIcAtIon cAses
As one can observe, the proposed architecture 
and developed schemes can be adapted to a 
wide range of application scenarios of the drone 
network. Nevertheless, different scenarios may 
require modifications and/or extensions to the 
current architecture and presented scheme. For 
example, contract theory can be further extend-
ed to optimize the pricing policy and maximize 
the profit of a certain trade in energy harvest-
ing drones. To explore and consider additional 
features of the drone network will be vital for 
adopting the proposed architecture by a wider 
market.
conclusIon
In this article, we have introduced the concept of a 
blockchain-empowered drone network (BeDrone) 
and integration of BeDrone with edge computing. 
The distributed nature means the operation of a 
large-scale drone network confronts many chal-
lenges, including vulnerability to security threats 
and privacy leakage, among others. To address 
these problems, we propose to utilize blockchain 
in the development of drone networks. Under the 
proposed blockchain-empowered drone network, 
the drones that are deployed for service provi-
sioning can act as the miners in the blockchain, 
and are able to acquire the computing resourc-
es from each other or an edge computing node 
whenever needed. Recommendations for design-
ing such a system and future research directions 
are introduced with a focus on the game theoret-
ic incentive mechanism for resource acquisition. 
Performance evaluations are conducted to illus-
trate the benefits of the proposed architecture for 
developing blockchain envisioned drones.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by NSFC (No. 62071105), 
NSF of Hebei (No. E2017203351), and the Key 
Research and Development Project of Hebei (No. 
19252106D).
references 
[1] L. Gupta, R. Jain, and G. Vaszkun, ”Survey of Important 
Issues in UAV Communication Networks,” IEEE Commun. 
Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 18, no. 2, 2nd qtr. 2019, pp. 1123–
52. 
[2] Z. Zhou et al., ”SAGECELL: Software-Defined Space-Air-
Ground Integrated Moving Cells,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 
56, no. 8, Aug. 2018, pp. 92–99. 
[3] X. Liu et al., ”Transceiver Design and Multihop D2D for UAV 
IoT Coverage in Disasters,” IEEE Internet of Things J., vol. 6, 
no. 2, Apr. 2019, pp. 180–15. 
[4] Y. Liu et al., ”UAV-Assisted Wireless Powered Cooperative 
Mobile Edge Computing: Joint Offloading, CPU Control 
and Trajectory Optimization,” IEEE Internet of Things J. DOI: 
10.1109/JIOT.2019.2958975. 
[5] S. Garg et al., ”UAV-Empowered Edge Computing Environ-
ment for Cyber-Threat Detection in Smart Vehicles,” IEEE 
Network, vol. 32, no. 3, May/June 2018, pp. 42–51. 
[6] Y. Gu et al., ”Joint Radio and Computational Resource Allo-
cation in IoT Fog Computing,” IEEE Trans. Vehic. Tech., vol. 
67, no. 8, Aug. 2018, pp. 7475–84. 
[7] S. Nakamoto, ”Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash Sys-
tem,” white paper, 2009; https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf. 
[8] R. Yang et al., ”Integrated Blockchain and Edge Computing 
Systems: A Survey, Some Research Issues and Challenges,” 
IEEE Commun. Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 2, 2nd qtr. 
2019, pp. 1508–32. 
[9] Y. Dai et al., ”Blockchain and Deep Reinforcement Learning 
Empowered Intelligent 5G Beyond,” IEEE Network, vol. 33, 
no. 3, May/June 2019, pp. 10–17. 
[10] M. Liu et al., ”Computation Offloading and Content Cach-
ing in Wireless Blockchain Networks with Mobile Edge 
Computing,” IEEE Trans. Vehic. Tech., vol. 67, no. 11, Nov. 
2018, pp. 11,008–21. 
[11] W. Chen et al., ”Cooperative and Distributed Computation 
Offloading for Blockchain-Empowered Industrial Internet of 
Things,” IEEE Internet of Things J., May 2019. 
As one can observe, the proposed architecture and developed schemes can be adapted to a wide  
range of application scenarios of the drone network. Nevertheless, different scenarios may require 
modifications and/or extensions to the current architecture and presented scheme.
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   92CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   92 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • January/February 2021 93
[12] Z. Chang et al., ” Incentive Mechanism for Edge Comput-
ing-Based Blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Industrial Informatics, 
2020. DOI 10.1109/TII.2020.2973248. 
[13] J. Qiu et al., ”Blockchain-Based Secure Spectrum Trading 
for Unmanned-Aerial-Vehicle-Assisted Cellular Networks: An 
Operator’s Perspective,” IEEE Internet of Things J., vol. 7, no. 
1, Jan. 2020, pp. 451–66. 
[14] A. Asheralieva and D. Niyato, ”Distributed Dynamic 
Resource Management and Pricing in the IoT Systems with 
Blockchain-as-a- Service and UAV-Enabled Mobile Edge 
Computing,” IEEE Internet of Things J., 2020. DOI: 10.1109/
JIOT.2019.2961958. 
[15] Z. Han et al., Game Theory in Wireless and Communica-
tion Networks Theory, Models, and Applications, Cambridge 
Univ. Press, 2000. 
 bIogrAPhIes
Zheng Chang [SM] received his B.Eng. degree from Jilin Uni-
versity, Changchun, China, in 2007, his M.Sc. (Tech.) degree 
from Helsinki University of Technology (now Aalto University), 
Espoo, Finland, in 2009, and his Ph.D. degree from the Univer-
sity of Jyväskylä, Finland, in 2013. From June to August 2013, 
he was a visiting student at Tsinghua University, and from April 
to May 2015, he was a visiting researcher at the University of 
Houston, Texas. His research interests include IoT, machine 
learning, and green communications. 
Wenlong guo received his Master’s degree from Yanshan Uni-
versity in 2018 and is now pursing a Ph.D. degree in the College 
of Information Science and Engineering at Yanshan University, 
Qinhuangdao, China. His research interests include blockchain, 
UAV, cloud computing, and mobile computing. 
Xijuan guo received a Ph.D. degree from Yanshan University. 
She is now a professor in the College of Information Science 
and Engineering, Yanshan University. Her research interests 
include high-performance computing, cloud computing, image 
processing, and wireless communications. 
Tao Chen [SM] is a senior researcher at VTT, Finland, an honor-
ary professor at the University of Kent, United Kingdom, and an 
adjunct professor at the University of Jyväskylä. He has more than 
20 years of experience in the telecommunications sector. He has 
been the project coordinator and technical manager of large EU 
funded projects on 5G. His current research interests include AI 
for wireless communications, software defined networking for 5G 
mobile networks, dynamic spectrum access, and energy efficiency 
and resource management in heterogeneous wireless networks. 
geyong Min [SM] is a professor of high-performance comput-
ing and networking with the Department of Computer Science 
within the College of Engineering, Mathematics and Physical Sci-
ences at the University of Exeter, United Kingdom. His research 
interests include computer networks, wireless communications, 
parallel and distributed computing, ubiquitous computing, multi-
media systems, modeling, and performance engineering. 
Shahid MuMTaZ [SM] received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in 
electrical and electronic engineering from Blekinge Institute of 
Technology, Sweden, and the University of Aveiro, Portugal, 
in 2006 and 2011, respectively. He has been with the Instituto 
de Telecomunicaçóes since 2011, where he currently holds 
the position of auxiliary researcher and adjunct positions with 
several universities across the Europe-Asian Region. He is also 
a visiting researcher at Nokia Bell labs. He is the author of four 
technical books, 12 book chapters, and 150+ technical papers 
in the area of mobile communications.
CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   93CHANG_LAYOUT.indd   93 1/29/21   6:12 PM1/29/21   6:12 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:19:04 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.