DIM-DS: Dynamic Incentive Model for Data Sharing in Federated Learning Based on Smart Contracts and Evolutionary Game Theory
24572 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
DIM-DS: Dynamic Incentive Model for Data
Sharing in Federated Learning Based on Smart
Contracts and Evolutionary Game Theory
Yanru Chen , Yuanyuan Zhang , Graduate Student Member, IEEE, Shengwei Wang , Fan Wang, Yang Li,
Yuming Jiang, Liangyin Chen , and Bing Guo
Abstract—With the development of big data, data sharing has
become a hot topic. According to the previous research on data
sharing, there is a problem with regard to how to design an
effective incentive mechanism to make users willing to share
data. First, we integrate the incentives based on reputation and
payment and introduce “credibility coins” as a cryptocurrency
for data-sharing transactions, to encourage users to participate
honestly in the data-sharing process based on federated learning.
Second, we propose a dynamic incentive model based on the evo-
lutionary game theory to model the game process of users in data
sharing and analyze the stability of their strategies. Finally, based
on the results of this analysis, we use the blockchain-based smart
contract technology to dynamically adjust the participation ben-
efits of users under different conditions in order to promote users
to join consortium blockchains more often and steadily to partic-
ipate in model training for federated learning and obtain better
model accuracy. Our work is the first to apply the evolutionary
game theory to the study of incentives in federated learning, and
plays a leading role in the study of incentives in federated learn-
ing. Experimental simulation validation shows that our DIM-DS
model can adequately motivate users to participate in the collab-
orative task of data sharing and maintain stability. The model
can maximize the effectiveness of the federated learning model.
Index Terms—Data sharing, dynamic incentive model, evo-
lutionary game theory, federated learning, smart contracts.
Manuscript received 4 January 2022; revised 29 May 2022 and 2
July 2022; accepted 11 July 2022. Date of publication 18 July 2022;
date of current version 21 November 2022. This work was supported
in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under
Grant 62072319, Grant 61772352, and Grant 62172061; in part by the
Science and Technology on Communication Security Laboratory under Grant
6142103190415; in part by the Sichuan Science and Technology Program
under Grant 2022YFG0041, Grant 2019YFG0184, Grant 2019JDTD0001,
Grant 2022YFG0155, Grant 2022YFG0157, Grant 2021GFW019, Grant
2021YFG0152, Grant 2021YFG0025, and Grant 2020YFG0322; and in
part by the Luzhou Science and Technology Program under Grant
2021CDLZ-11; and in part by the National Key Research and Development
Project under Grant 2020YFB1711800 and Grant 2020YFB1707900.
(Corresponding authors: Liangyin Chen; Bing Guo.)
Yanru Chen, Yuanyuan Zhang, Shengwei Wang, Fan Wang, Yuming
Jiang, and Bing Guo are with the College of Computer Science, Sichuan
University, Chengdu 610065, China (e-mail: yanruchen@stu.scu.edu.cn;
yuanyuanzhang@stu.scu.edu.cn; wangshengwei1217@126.com;
2713940331@qq.com; jiangym@scu.edu.cn; guobing@scu.edu.cn).
Yang Li is with the Science and Technology on Security Communication
Laboratory, Institute of Southwestern Communication, Chengdu 610041,
China (e-mail: yishuihanly@pku.edu.cn).
Liangyin Chen is with the College of Computer Science and the Institute
for Industrial Internet Research, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610065, China
(e-mail: chenliangyin@scu.edu.cn).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JIOT.2022.3191671
I. INTRODUCTION
W ITH the development of industrial big data technology,
the application of big data is becoming more and more
popular [1]. The key to unleashing the potential of big data
is data sharing [2]. Data sharing not only plays an important
role in improving the efficiency of existing industrial scenarios
but also has a huge impact on the intelligence [24] and the
Quality of Experience (QoE) of users in the metaverse [25],
the virtual scenario of the future. Thanks to the decentraliza-
tion and tamper-proof features of blockchain, more and more
scholars have started to study blockchain-based data shar-
ing schemes. However, problems such as insufficient financial
incentives have led to the fact that most users are still reluc-
tant to actively share data [21]. In order to ensure that the
interests of users involved in data sharing are maximized, a
suitable incentive mechanism needs to be incorporated in the
blockchain.
The existing blockchain-based incentives are mainly divided
into reputation-based incentives, payment-based incentives,
and noncooperative game-based incentives. Reputation-based
incentive methods cannot significantly increase the proportion
of user participation. For example, Kang et al. [10] designed
a data-sharing scheme based on reputation-based incentives.
The scheme ensures high-quality data sharing among vehicles,
but user participation is not high and it is only applicable to
Internet of Vehicles. The payment-based incentive approach
not only increases user expenditures but also fails to motivate
users to continuously participate. For example, Li et al. [11]
designed CreditCoin, a payment-based incentive announce-
ment network, where the percentage of users participating in
data sharing in the network was not stable and users could
not verify the value of data shared by other users. Incentive
methods based on noncooperative games cannot achieve win–
win situation for multiple parties. For example, a knowledge
pricing strategy based on a noncooperative game with mar-
ket incentives proposed by Lin et al. [13] is not effective
in motivating users to share data. Data sharing is critical in
federated learning, but the federated learning approach [17]
proposes to protect users’ data privacy that makes the partic-
ipation ratio and stability of users reduced because it greatly
increases the participation cost of users and cannot effectively
motivate users. The analysis yields the following problems
in the current study. In summary, the shortcomings with the
current research are as follows.
2327-4662 c© 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9677-7142
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-6265-7188
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7127-5795
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7301-5295
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0679-4601
CHEN et al.: DIM-DS: DYNAMIC INCENTIVE MODEL FOR DATA SHARING IN FEDERATED LEARNING 24573
1) In existing federated learning-based data sharing, incen-
tives are insufficient and the percentage of participating
users is generally low.
2) The stability of user participation strategies is generally
inadequate.
3) The migration capability of existing incentives is
severely lacking.
To solve the above shortcomings in a general scenario and
considering that the user participation strategy needs to change
continuously according to the current state of the system,
we propose a dynamic incentive model based on smart con-
tracts and evolutionary game theory, called DIM-DS. This
model greatly facilitates users’ honest participation in the joint
learning-based data sharing process by integrating reputation
and payment-based incentives-based data sharing process. The
model innovatively introduces evolutionary game theory to
construct a dynamic incentive model that maximizes the pro-
portion of user participation. We simulate the game process of
users in data sharing, in which the system obtains high user
participation rate and high strategy stability.
In summary, our contributions include the following.
1) In order to solve the problem of scarce incentives in fed-
erated learning and insufficient user participation ratio,
we integrate “reputation + payment + dynamic incen-
tives,” propose the dynamic incentive model based on
evolutionary game theory for the first time, and intro-
duce “credibility coins” to encourage users to honestly
participate in the federated learning-based data-sharing
process. Eventually, our system maximizes user partici-
pation rates.
2) To address the stability of user participation strategies,
we model the game process of users in data sharing,
conduct a complete mathematical analysis and simula-
tion experiments on the stability of user strategies, and
find the conditions to satisfy the stability.
3) To solve the problem of poor migration of existing
incentive mechanisms, this work focuses on generic sce-
narios, and the proposed incentive mechanism is highly
scalable. Subsequent researchers can adapt the present
incentive mechanism to its specific application scenarios
by adding and removing conditions on the basis of this
incentive mechanism.
The subsequent sections are organized as follows. Section II
briefly describes the related work. Section III presents the
DIM-DS model design. Section IV conducts the analysis of
experimental results. Section V concludes our work.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Federated Learning
Federated learning belongs to a machine learning frame-
work, proposed by Google in 2016 for implementing local
model updates for mobile end users. Its goal is to per-
form efficient machine learning across multiple participants
or computing nodes during the exchange of data, ensuring
information security and terminal and personal data privacy
within the scope of legal operation [19], effectively solving
the problem of data silos.
Taking users A and B as examples, when they want to train
a machine learning model together, A and B are reluctant to
exchange data directly due to data privacy protection and secu-
rity concerns. However, if the users each build their own local
models, there is a risk that their models will not be built or
implemented well due to having incomplete or insufficient
data. Based on a federated learning mechanism, users do not
have to send their local data but instead train a model together
in the form of a parameter exchange. The model is equivalent
to an optimal model built by aggregating data together, but the
user’s local data are not moved, and therefore, there is no risk
of having a data privacy breach.
Through a review of incentive design for federated learning,
Zhan et al. [16] found that it is difficult to model the utility
function of each participant (parameter server and client) in
federated learning. It is impossible to apply directly in making
existing incentive design work. When the total amount of data
from the participating parties is insufficient, the learned models
will be less effective [20]. How to motivate users to participate
in collaboration is therefore a problem that must be addressed
by federated learning. However, current research on incentives
for federated learning is still in its early stages.
By integrating federated learning into the blockchain and
building a decentralized and trusted network, data sharing in
industrial intelligence analysis scenarios can be achieved. The
DS2PM model [17] addresses the privacy issue during data
sharing by not sharing the original data directly but rather
sharing the trained federation learning model. However, exist-
ing studies have focused on incentives in the case of direct
data sharing, and little attention has been given to incentives
under collaborative tasks such as federated learning. In feder-
ated learning, users need to consume greater computational
consumption and communication consumption to complete
collaborative tasks while participating in data sharing. When
there is a lack of sufficient incentive, most users are reluctant
to participate in collaboration, which results in a lack of suffi-
cient training data for federation learning and makes the final
trained model less accurate.
B. Current Incentives
Current incentive mechanisms can be divided into three
types: 1) reputation-based [4], [10]; 2) payment-based [5], [6],
[11], and 3) noncooperative game-based approaches (also
called “tit-for-tat” approaches) [7], [8], [13]. With the devel-
opment of blockchain technology, the incentive mechanism,
one of its underlying core technologies, is also receiving atten-
tion. Based on this technology, each node can share distributed
ledgers without resorting to a third-party trusted organization.
The open and transparent nature of the ledger effectively guar-
antees the fairness of transactions. By designing a reasonable
incentive mechanism, the blockchain nodes that participate
in the consensus can maximize their personal benefits while
ensuring the security and reliability of the blockchain system
[9], [14], [15].
A reputation-based incentive mechanism [4], [10] is applied
in a blockchain system. In this system, nodes decide whether
to transact with a target node based on its reputation value.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
24574 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
Payment-based incentives [5], [6], [11] can be understood as
being essentially a reward-based approach. In this approach,
users are rewarded for completing transactions. For example,
in blockchain applications, the most typical example is the bit-
coin system. To maintain the extension of the system, nodes in
the system are incentivized to create new blocks and publish
them across the network to reach consensus. At the same time,
they are rewarded with bitcoins and a fee for completing the
transaction. The noncooperative game-based approaches [7],
[8], [13] allow for direct auditing of user behavior and the cal-
culation of benefits. However, user decisions in this approach
depend entirely on the decisions of the remaining users. This
finding occurs because of the high fluctuation of user strategies
and the inconsistency of contributions among users.
In addition, all of the above studies lack rational analysis of
users. The studies judge participation in the data-sharing pro-
cess by only the fixed benefits of the data-sharing transactions
posted. In fact, there is no clear definition of the value of the
data. Users are unable to judge whether the policy is the best
one. The user’s own decisions are influenced by the policies
of the remainder of the group to which they belong. Users
can choose to participate in sharing in conjunction with the
information they know or not. None of the data-sharing stud-
ies based on current incentives have analyzed the stability of
user strategies, which is detrimental to the federated learning
process.
C. Evolutionary Game Theory
Game theory is the study of different individuals or teams
in the game process, based on the opponent’s strategy, to
adjust the corresponding strategy under agreed upon condi-
tions. By finding the Nash equilibrium point, the user can be
kept in a certain fixed strategy. Once the strategy changes, the
user’s income will decrease. For example, Deng and Huang
[12] proposed an incentive mechanism based on mixed strat-
egy games. Zhan et al. [22] proposed a game-based incentive
mechanism for a federated learning platform, which combines
distributed deep learning and crowdsensing together for big
data analytics on mobile clients. Due to the use of the nonco-
operative game model [16], users are relatively constrained in
their choices and are unable to change their strategies depend-
ing on the situation. Lim et al. [26] used an evolutionary
game approach to address the problem of reward allocation
and resource allocation for data owners without discussing the
participation rate of data owners in the whole system.
Traditional game theory studies the behavior of a single,
static game in a state of perfect rationality, whereas evolution-
ary game theory adds repetition and dynamics to the traditional
game theory in a state of finite rationality, thus extending the
static traditional game analysis [16]. Evolutionary game theory
is a dynamic game theory. It no longer assumes that the users
of a game are perfectly rational. Rather, it combines biological
evolution with the idea that users in a game will continu-
ously adjust their strategies in the process of making decisions
to achieve game equilibrium. Therefore, our work introduces
evolutionary game theory into the data-sharing process and
investigates the stability of user participation strategies.
Fig. 1. Overall framework of DIM-DS’s incentive mechanism diagram.
Although all of the above studies have achieved some
results, the fact that the existing studies on data-sharing incen-
tives do not maximize the proportion of participating users in
the system and do not analyze the stability of user participation
strategies have not been addressed. Besides, existing incen-
tives are designed based on specific scenarios and are poorly
migratory, so they cannot be widely applied. Therefore, we
propose a dynamic incentive model for data sharing in feder-
ated learning based on smart contracts and evolutionary game
theory (DIM-DS).
III. MODEL DESIGN
The DIM-DS model consists mainly of incentives based on
evolutionary game theory and smart contracts based on incen-
tives. The two are combined together to form the DIM-DS
model. The DIM-DS model introduces the concept of “credi-
bility coins” by combining a payment reward mechanism with
a credibility incentive. Users are trained in a federated learning
model to earn “credibility coins.” Combined with the deduc-
tive game theory, the model simulates the game behavior of
users participating in data sharing and allows them to adjust
their strategy in relation to the information they currently have.
Thus, the model facilitates the users’ participation in collab-
oration. Combined with smart contract technology, users can
join the consortium chain sooner to participate in the federated
learning model training by dynamically adjusting their reward
income. Thus, the model gains higher accuracy. The model
consists of two parts: 1) an evolutionary game theory-based
incentive mechanism and 2) a smart contract design based on
evolutionary game theory incentives, as shown in Fig. 1. The
federated chain is used for reasons of the superior computa-
tional performance of the blockchain [18]. We use the form of
storing user data summaries on-chain and data off-chain. After
the data requester sends a data-sharing request, the system
retrieves the data owner and makes the data owner respond to
the data-sharing request. In the process, we propose an incen-
tive mechanism to encourage more data requestors and owners
to participate in sharing.
The main stages involved in credibility coins are as follows.
1) At the user registration stage, the system allocates a
certain number of credibility coins to new users, and
protects the privacy of the number of reputation coins
held by the user by means of encryption.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CHEN et al.: DIM-DS: DYNAMIC INCENTIVE MODEL FOR DATA SHARING IN FEDERATED LEARNING 24575
TABLE I
MEANING OF DIM-DS MODEL SYMBOLS
2) At the data request stage, to avoid users posting multiple
requests, the data requestors needs to pay a certain num-
ber of credibility coins as a deposit for posting data
request announcements.
3) At the data-sharing stage, the degree of contribution
from the data provider is assessed based on the similar-
ity of the data and the quality of the trained model. The
data provider who contributes more to the model will
share more credibility coins. The number of credibility
coins available to the data provider is the product of the
deposit paid by the requesting party and the contribution
value of the data provider.
4) After the stage of the federated learning is completed,
the data requester pays a credibility coin to obtain the
trained model, and other users can also pay a corre-
sponding credibility coin to obtain the trained model.
A. Evolutionary Game Theory Part
The content of this section is mainly to research incentives
based on the evolutionary game theory. We build the DIM-
DS model. Our work analyzes the stability of our model to
find a stable point where all system users participate in data
sharing and collaboration tasks. In response to a data-sharing
request, the data providers can choose whether to participate
in data sharing. In this model, it is assumed that the data
providers participating in data sharing have bounded rational-
ity. Data providers make corresponding decisions based on
the profit situation, with the maximization of personal bene-
fits as the strategic goal. It should be noted that participating in
data sharing mentioned in this section is a federated learning
collaboration task in the process of participating in sharing.
1) Model Building: The DIM-DS model is a symmetrical
user-participating data-sharing evolution model composed of
quaternion array G = (P, N, S, U). The users in this model are
related data holders in the data request node selection stage.
The meaning of each symbol is in Table I.
In the data-sharing game model, relevant data providers
make decisions about whether to participate in data sharing by
calculating the sharing benefits and sharing costs. User data-
sharing benefits can be divided into two categories: 1) direct
benefits and 2) collaboration benefits.
Direct benefits refer to the benefits that data providers can
obtain from participating in data sharing. For the ith data
provider, direct benefits are mainly related to the similarity
ρi of data sharing request and the degree of credibility it
own. The credibility is measured by the number mi of cred-
ibility coins owned by the data holder. We record the direct
benefit of this component for participating in data sharing as
k1ρi + k2mi(k1 > 0, k2 > 0). This formula indicates that the
TABLE II
MEANING OF THE DIM-DS MODEL EARNINGS COMPONENT SYMBOLS
(NOTE: IF ρ , m, AND C ARE NOT SUBSCRIPTED, THEY REFER TO
GENERAL USERS)
benefits of user participation in data sharing are positively cor-
related with the similarity ρi of the requested data and the
credibility coins held by the user. Users with higher data sim-
ilarity or higher credibility will receive more benefits as an
incentive to participate honestly in the collaboration.
When both users i and j involved in the decision choose to
participate in data sharing, the fusion of data and information
between the two parties promotes the process of federated
learning and reduces the difficulty of solving data request
problems. Both parties involved in data sharing can reap
the benefits of collaboration in the federated learning pro-
cess. Based on the above analysis, the synergistic benefits
between users can be recorded as formula λ(k1ρi+ k2mi) and
λ(k1ρj + k2mj)(λ > 1). According to the rationality analysis
in the real environment, the benefits of collaboration need to
be met at 1 + 1 > 2 to promote the sharing of data between
the two parties.
In the data-sharing stage, users need to spend a certain
amount of data-sharing costs. These costs consist mainly of
the time and computational costs to be consumed during the
training phase of the federated learning model. The system
first calculates the average training cost of a particular model
in federated learning. This is used as a standard to calculate
the confidence level of the training cost reported by the data
provider of that model, which is calculated in [23]. This confi-
dence level is used to calculate the user cost that is recognized
by the system, denoted as C. Users who choose not to par-
ticipate in data sharing do not consume these costs, and they
also do not receive the benefits of data sharing.
In addition, the goal of this incentive mechanism is to
encourage more users to participate in data sharing. When
the initial number of users participating in data sharing is too
small, users can be more inclined not to participate in decision
making under fixed income conditions. Therefore, to encour-
age system members to participate more, the system is set up
to give a portion of the reward to users who participate in the
sharing phase when the initial number of participating users
is small. The dynamic income of the reward is recorded as I.
In conjunction with the above analysis, the symbols
involved in the building of the DIM-DS model in this section
are shown in Table II.
For the similarity ρ of user data, we still follow the method
defined in our previous work [17].
2) Payoff Matrix: Assuming that the users participating
in the data-sharing evolutionary game are A and B, the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
24576 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
TABLE III
PAYOFF MATRIX FOR CALCULATING THE BENEFITS OF A’S
PARTICIPATION
TABLE IV
PAYOFF MATRIX FOR CALCULATING THE BENEFITS OF B’S
PARTICIPATION
decision-making situation of the two users can be divided into
the following three categories.
First, both A and B participate in data sharing. In this case,
the relevant data providers (P = P1, P2, . . . , Pn) that par-
ticipate in the data-sharing federated learning all participate
in the federated learning task. The benefits obtained by the
users from participating in the data sharing belong to the
collaborative benefits. The benefits of both parties PA and
PB in this case are formula λ(k1ρA + k2mA) + IA − CA and
λ(k1ρB+k2mB)+IB−CB. Second, neither A nor B participates
in data sharing. In this case, none of the data providers will
participate in the federated learning task. Therefore, under this
type of decision, the user cannot obtain benefits, and the user
does not need participation costs. In other words, the bene-
fits of both parties are zero. Third, only one user between A
and B participates in data sharing. In this case, the benefits
of users who participate in data sharing are direct benefits,
in other words, formula (k1ρA + k2mA) + IA − CA for PA or
(k1ρB+k2mB)+IB−CB for PB. However, the benefits of users
who do not participate in data sharing are zero.
3) Reproduction of Dynamic Equations: Since users of this
system can only choose to participate or not to participate, the
game process of user A and user B conforms to the “general
two-person symmetric game.”
The payment matrix for calculating the benefits of A’s
participation in the decision is shown in Table III.
The payment matrix for calculating the benefits of B’s
participation in the decision is shown in Table IV.
Assume that in a group N composed of all relevant data
providers in this system, and the probability that each user
chooses to participate in the data sharing strategy is x.
Therefore, the probability that users choose not to partici-
pate in data sharing is 1− x, where x is a function of time t,
x ∈ [0, 1]. User A must participate if he wants to receive the
benefit. Then, A’s benefit is x[λ(k1ρA+k2mA)+IA−CA]+(1−
x)[(k1ρA+k2mA)+IA −CA], where x[λ(k1ρA+k2mA)+IA−CA]
is the payoff to user A if B participates with probability x and
(1− x)[(k1ρA + k2mA)+ IA − CA is the payoff to user A if B
does not participate with probability (1− x). The situation of
user B is analyzed in the same way as user A.
According to the above analysis, we can obtain the benefits
of user Pi who choose to participate in the strategy during the
data-sharing decision-making stage, as shown in
u(s1, x) = x[λ(k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci]
+ (1− x)[(k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci]. (1)
The benefits of users who choose not to participate in the
strategy are shown in
u(s2, x) = 0. (2)
The average revenue for the users is given in
u = x · u(s1, x)− (1− x) · u(s2, x)
= x[(λ(k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci)
+ (1− x)((k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci)]. (3)
According to the Malthusian equation, the user’s replication
dynamic equation in the DIM-DS model can be expressed by
the growth rate of the sharing strategy, as in
F(x) = dx
dt
= x · [u(s1, x)− u]
= x(1− x) · [u(s1, x)− u(s2, x)]
= x(1− x) · [x(λ(k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci)
+ (1− x)((k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci)]. (4)
4) Stability Analysis: The stability of the above DIM-DS
model is analyzed using the local stability analysis method
proposed by Friedman. According to the stability theorem of
the replicated dynamic equation, the stability strategy of the
user can be judged and analyzed by bringing the equilibrium
point x into (4).
We set F(x) = 0, and then, we can obtain three
stable states of the user’s replication dynamic equation
F(x), which are x1 = 0, x2 = 1, and x3 =
([C − k1ρi − k2mi − I]/[(λ− 1)(k1ρi + k2mi)]), respectively.
In analysis based on the evolutionary stability strategy (ESS)
of the game and the stability theorem, a steady state should
be stable when there is a small disturbance in the dynamic
system. In other words, it should satisfy
F′(x) = [(1− 2x)(x(λ(k1ρi + k2mi + Ii − Ci)
+ (1− x)((k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci))
+ x(1− x)(λ− 1)(k1ρi + k2mi)] < 0. (5)
Substituting the above three stable (x1, x2, x3) points into
(5), we can get
⎧
⎨
⎩
F′(x1) = (k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci)
F′(x2) = −[λ(k1ρi + k2mi)+ Ii − Ci]
F′(x3) = (C−k1ρi−k2mi−Ii)[λ(k1ρi+k2mi)+Ii−Ci]
(λ−1)(k1ρi+k2mi)
.
(6)
Combining (6), we analyze the player’s ESS from the
following situations.
1) Condition I: (C−k1ρi−k2mi−Ii) > (λ−1)(k1ρi+k2mi).
This condition means that the cost of users participating
in data sharing is higher than the benefits that can be
obtained. At this time, F′(0) < 0, F′(1) > 0, and x3 does
not exist. Therefore, x1 is the only evolution equilibrium
point of the system. We conclude that the final evolution
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CHEN et al.: DIM-DS: DYNAMIC INCENTIVE MODEL FOR DATA SHARING IN FEDERATED LEARNING 24577
Fig. 2. Summary of the ESS trend of the DIM-DS model.
strategy ESS of the system users does not participate in
data sharing.
2) Condition II: (C−k1ρi−k2mi−Ii) < (λ−1)(k1ρi+k2mi).
This condition means that the collaboration benefits
that users can obtain from participating in data shar-
ing are higher than the participation costs. At this point,
F′(1) < 0, and x2 is explained as the stable equilibrium
point of the evolution of the system. It is also explained
that one of the evolution strategies of the users is to
take part in data sharing. Under this condition, we can
deduce the formula λ(k1ρi + k2mi) + Ii − Ci > 0, but
λ > 1, k1ρi + k2mi > 0. Thus, the value of F′(x3)
depends on C−k1ρi−k2mi− Ii. Because of the formula
F′(X1) = k1ρi+ k2mi)+ Ii−Ci, it is possible to analyze
the different value ranges of formula C−k1ρi−k2mi−Ii
according to the current conditions. The specific analysis
process is as follows.
Condition (1): C−k1ρi−k2mi− Ii > 0. Under this con-
dition, F′(x3) > 0, F′(x1) < 0. Therefore, x1 = 0 is also
the evolutionarily stable equilibrium point of the model.
The final decision of the system users will depend on
the proportion x∗ of users in the model who initially
participate in data sharing. When x∗ < x3, the strategy
tends to be the nonparticipation strategy; when x∗ > x3,
the strategy tends to be the participation strategy.
Condition (2): C − k1ρi − k2mi − Ii < 0. Under this
condition, F′(x3) < 0, F′(x1) > 0. x3 < 0 does not exist.
Therefore, users will all eventually choose to participate
in data sharing.
The above content analysis the evolutionary and stable trend
of data sharing. The evolutionary trend under different con-
ditions is summarized in Fig. 2. Whether users choose to
participate in data sharing or not to participate in data sharing
affects the evolutionary stability, depending on which condi-
tions are met. The ESS depends on the benefits obtained from
the sharing of user data and the proportion of users involved
in the initial state of the system.
The participant benefits are related to the user data similarity
ρ, the number of tokens held by users m, the participation cost
C, and the dynamic incentive income I. Therefore, the above-
mentioned relevant parameters of the participation income can
be modeled and analyzed according to different conditions.
Among them, in the case in which users can allocate fixed
income, dynamic incentive income is a key factor in increasing
the proportion of system users who participate.
Based on the above stability analysis, for the data provider
Pi we can obtain the range of values of Ii that motivate users
to participate in data sharing, i.e.,
Ci − k1 − k2 − Ii
(λ− 1)(k1ρi + k2mi)
< x∗. (7)
An equivalent transformation of (7) yields an interval lower
bound e.t. Ii > Ci − [(λ − 1)x∗ + 1][k1ρi + k2mi] for
I. Considering the realistic scenario where the giver of I
always wants the minimum sum of I used to motivate the
system users to participate in data sharing, and because sat-
isfying (7) the conclusion that data providers always tend to
participate in data sharing is obtained according to the evo-
lutionary game theory, so we set I of each data provider Pi
to Ii = Ci − [(λ− 1)x∗ + 1][k1ρi + k2mi]+ 1. It can be seen
that the size of I is related to the order of participation of
data providers and is inversely proportional to the quality of
data providers (i.e., the number of credibility coins m and data
similarity ρi), and the initial ratio x∗. Therefore, before deter-
mining I for each data provider, they are sorted in ascending
order by k1ρi + k2mi.
Therefore, to encourage users to participate in data sharing,
the following strategy can be used: when the initial propor-
tion of users participating in data sharing is lower than x3,
the incentive income I is continuously increased to increase
the participation proportion. The magnitude of the increase
is determined by the product of data similarity and reputation
value. The increase is greater as the data similarity and reputa-
tion values of the users increase. When the participation ratio
exceeds that number, there is no need to increase the profit
at this time. Therefore, the system can achieve the maximum
participation ratio.
B. Smart Contract Design Part
To encourage users to participate in data sharing and to min-
imize the cost for incentives, the participation ratio of users in
the current system can be queried and the user’s decision can
be evolved into a participation strategy by dynamically adjust-
ing the incentive benefit. Therefore, a smart contract based on
the DIM-DS model can be designed. When a user chooses to
make a decision, the system executes the code to calculate the
user participation rate; then, the system dynamically adjusts
the incentive benefit based on the participation rate.
1) Design of Variables: A UML class diagram of smart
contracts based on the DIM-DS model is shown in Fig. 3.
The relevant variables in this smart contract are collated
as in Table V. benefit is fixed benefit and dynamic incen-
tive benefit that can be earned by users while participating
in data sharing. Four main variables are maintained: k1, k2,
cost, and cooperation, which correspond to k1, k2, C, and λ
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
24578 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
Fig. 3. UML class diagram of smart contracts based on the DIM-DS model.
TABLE V
MEANING OF THE VARIABLES RELATED TO SMART CONTRACTS BASED
ON THE DIM-DS MODEL
Algorithm 1: Smart Contracts
Input: the set of data providers P, ρ, m, C, cooperation
Output: expected benefit
1 total ← setTotal(P)
2 Sort by k1ρi + k2mi ascending order
3 for i← 1 to total do
4 x′ = costi−k1ρi−k2mi−incentivei
(cooperation−1)(k1ρi+k2mi)
5 x∗ = number
total
6 if x∗ < x′ then
7 incentivei =
cost − [(cooperation− 1)x∗ + 1][k1ρ + k2m]+ 1
8 end
9 user join in sharing data setNumber()
10 end
11 return
in Table II of the DIM-DS model building, respectively. The
variable incentive corresponds to I.
2) Algorithm Function Design: The above smart contract
contains three functions. The functions’s relevant meanings
are as follows.
setTotal(): This function sets the total number of users,
defined as total, in the evolutionary game model DIM-DS
based on the total number in the set P = {P1, P2, . . . , Pn},
which consists of relevant data providers queried by the data
request.
setNumber(): When users participate in data sharing, this
function updates the total number of users currently partici-
pating in the system.
The algorithm details of smart contracts are shown in
Algorithm 1.
IV. ANALYSIS OF EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
To synthesize the impact of the factors in the DIM-DS
model on the system user policy, we simulate different fac-
tors under different conditions. The ode45 function is used to
solve the replication dynamic (4). Setting different values of
Fig. 4. Evolutionary plot of the change in data similarity coefficient k1.
k1, k2, C, λ, and I based on previous studies and the analy-
sis of condition A and condition B in the stability analysis,
we verify the effect of the parameters on the ESS of the
system and the dynamic incentive income on user data sharing
under various conditions. We accomplish this goal by fixing
the values of the other incentive-related parameters and vary-
ing linearly only the values of the incentive-related parameters
to be analyzed. We later simulate the evolution to show how
the proportion of user participation varies with time t. Here, t
varies continuously.
A. Influence of the Factors on ESS
1) Impact of Data Similarity on ESS: Data similarity is an
important factor in the calculation of user benefits. The evolu-
tionary process of the proposed DIM-DS model is obtained by
increasing the data similarity coefficient k1 while other factors
remain unchanged. As shown in Fig. 4, in this case, k2 = 0.2,
C = 5, λ = 2, I = 3, ρ = 0.8, m = 10, and the initial
proportion of participating users in the system is 0.2.
Fig. 4 shows that the data similarity positively affects the
users’ participation in data sharing in the DIM-DS model. As
the data similarity coefficient increases, the likelihood of the
system converging to x = 1 increases, and convergence is
accelerated. The probability of users choosing to participate in
data sharing is improved. It can be verified that the incentive
mechanism provides a better incentive for users with higher
data similarity.
2) Impact of Creditworthiness on the ESS: To guarantee
credible sharing in the data-sharing process, the degree of cred-
ibility is incorporated into the calculation of the user’s benefits.
The evolutionary process of the proposed DIM-DS model is
obtained by increasing the credibility degree coefficient k2
while other factors held constant, as shown in Fig. 5. The val-
ues of the remaining relevant parameters are k1 = 1, C = 5,
and λ = 2, I = 3, ρ = 0.8, and m = 10. Fig. 5 shows that the
degree of credibility positively affects the user participation
in data sharing in the DIM-DS model and that the degree of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CHEN et al.: DIM-DS: DYNAMIC INCENTIVE MODEL FOR DATA SHARING IN FEDERATED LEARNING 24579
Fig. 5. Evolutionary graph of the change in the user credibility coefficient
k2.
credibility is an important factor in user participation in deci-
sion making. As the user reputation coefficient increases, the
likelihood of the system converging to x = 1 increases, and
the convergence rate is accelerated. The probability of users
choosing to participate in data-sharing improves.
3) Impact of Collaboration on ESS: As the federated learn-
ing task in DS2PM [17] proposed in our previous work
requires multiple parties to be involved in training the same
machine learning, the task is a collaborative task for the user.
To analyze the impact of the collaboration task on the level
of user engagement, the evolutionary process of the proposed
DIM-DS model was achieved by increasing the value of the
collaboration gain coefficient while other factors remained
constant, as shown in Fig. 6. The values of the remaining
relevant parameters are k1 = 1, k2 = 0.2, C = 5, I = 3,
ρ = 0.8, and m = 10. Fig. 6 shows that increasing the appro-
priate collaboration gain for the specificity of the federated
learning task positively affects user engagement data sharing
in the DIM-DS model. The rate of user evolution accelerates
as the coefficient of collaborative gain increases. It can also be
analyzed from Fig. 6 that we have designed the incentives in
such a way that the ultimate strategy of the users is to partici-
pate in data sharing. This finding means that users pursue their
individual interests while maximizing their collective interests,
thus satisfying the requirement for incentive compatibility.
4) Impact of Participation Costs on ESS: Users consume
a certain amount of computing resources and time costs when
participating in the data-sharing process. To verify the influ-
ence of this part of the value on the evolutionary trend of
the system, this section verifies the influence of the participa-
tion cost on the ESS by reducing the participation cost while
other factors remain unchanged. The evolutionary process of
the DIM-DS model obtained is shown in Fig. 7. The values
of the remaining relevant parameters are k1 = 1, k2 = 0.2,
and λ = 2, I = 3, ρ = 0.8, and m = 10. Fig. 7 shows
that the magnitude of the participation cost negatively affects
user participation in data sharing in the DIM-DS model. As
the user participation cost decreases, the probability of the
system converging to x = 1 increases and converges faster.
Fig. 6. Evolutionary graph of the change in the coefficient of return to
collaboration λ.
Fig. 7. Evolutionary graph of the change in user participation cost C.
The probability of users choosing to participate in data sharing
is enhanced. Users are more likely to choose not to participate
in the decision when the benefits they gain from data sharing
do not meet the losses from the participation costs.
5) Impact of Incentive Benefits on ESS: As the participa-
tion cost, data similarity and reputation of the system’s users
are fixed values, the benefits calculated are also fixed. When
the fixed benefit does not provide sufficient incentive for the
user to participate in the strategy, users are more likely to
choose not to participate. However, increasing the weight of
each parameter could lead to excessive participation benefits
for system users, and the data requestor might not be able
to meet the shared benefits of the data provider. Therefore,
it is necessary to reasonably control the weight proportion of
each factor. At the same time, the system dynamically adjusts
the benefits by introducing dynamic incentive benefits I to
promote the users’ participation in data sharing.
This section ensures that the other factors remain unchanged
and verifies the impact of the dynamic incentive benefit I on
the ESS by adding I. In this case, the dynamic incentive starts
I from a negative number and makes linear increases to adjust
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
24580 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
Fig. 8. Evolutionary graph of the change in incentive gain I.
it. The evolution of the DIM-DS model obtained is shown in
Fig. 8. The values of the remaining relevant parameters are:
k1 = 1, k2 = 0.2, C = 5, λ = 1.5, ρ = 0.8, and m = 10. From
Fig. 8, it can be seen that I = −1 indicates that the incentive
does not increase the return on top of the user’s original fixed
return. However, it makes the user hold less return. Therefore,
the final evolutionary strategy of the system user is not to par-
ticipate in data sharing. When I = 0, the incentive maintains
the original fixed return. The user’s final evolutionary strategy
is to slow down the rate of user evolution, although the user
still does not participate. Similarly, when I = 1, the incentive
helps to increase the user’s original fixed benefit. However, the
incentive is still not sufficient to make the user’s evolutionary
strategy tend to participate in the decision, although the rate
of evolution is somewhat slowed. Therefore, it is possible to
analyze from this finding that increasing the incentive gain
promotes the user’s participation in data sharing, even if the
final evolutionary strategy of the model tends toward partici-
pation in decision making. This conclusion can be verified by
the graph of I = 1.
The above analysis shows that as the incentive gain
increases, the likelihood of the system converging to x = 1
increases and the rate of convergence is accelerated. The
probability of users choosing to participate in data sharing
is improved.
6) Impact of the Initial User Participation Rate on ESS:
In this section, analysis is conducted for the user partic-
ipation ratio. Therefore, each parameter is set as follows:
k1 = 1, k2 = 0.2, C = 6, λ = 1.5, I = 2, ρ = 0.5, and
m = 10. Substituting the above parameters into the stable point
x3(x3 = ([C − k1ρ − k2m− I]/[(λ− 1)(k1ρ + k2m)]) of the
replication dynamic equation F(x) of (5), we can derive a par-
ticipation ratio threshold for the replicated dynamic equation
conditional on this parameter, which is thres = 0.6. According
to this threshold value, the trend of the user evolutionary strat-
egy under different initial participation proportions is studied,
and Fig. 9 is obtained.
From Fig. 9, it can be determined that when the initial par-
ticipation ratio of the system is below the threshold value of
Fig. 9. Evolutionary graphs for different initial participation ratios.
TABLE VI
VERIFICATION OF THE PARAMETERS OF THE DYNAMIC INCENTIVE
MECHANISM
0.6, users are more inclined not to participate in the current
calculated return scenario. When the initial participation ratio
of the system is just under thres condition, the user participa-
tion ratio of the system always remains at 0.6, where thres is
the ESS under the current parameter condition. When the user
participation ratio of the system increases, the evolution strat-
egy of the system users gradually shifts to the participation
strategy, and the ratio is higher. The remaining users choose
the participation strategy faster.
B. Analysis of Dynamic Motivational Effects
1) User Strategy Stability Analysis: To verify the effect
of the proposed dynamic incentive mechanism on the evo-
lutionary outcome of the system user policy, the analysis is
conducted in this section in conjunction with different initial
participation ratios and incentive gains I. The parameters in the
replication dynamic equations of the DIM-DS model, except
for the incentive gain I, are held constant on the basis of sub-
section impact of the initial user participation rate on ESS.
Let the initial participation ratio be Θ . The values of Θ and
the values of I for the experimental design in this section are
shown in Table VI.
Simulation analysis combined with the parameter values in
the table results in the user evolution strategy graph shown in
Fig. 10.
Fig. 10 shows that when the value of I is 0, the final
evolutionary strategy of the system users is nonparticipation,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CHEN et al.: DIM-DS: DYNAMIC INCENTIVE MODEL FOR DATA SHARING IN FEDERATED LEARNING 24581
Fig. 10. Evolution curve diagram under different incentive income and initial
participation ratios.
regardless of the initial participation ratio Θ . When increas-
ing the value of I to 1, the user’s evolutionary strategy is
still nonparticipation when the initial participation ratio is low
(Θ = 0.2 and Θ = 0.45). However, when the value of Θ
is 0.7, the user’s decision gradually evolves to a participation
strategy. When the value of I is 2, the user evolution strat-
egy stabilizes at that point except when the value of Θ is 0.2.
However, by the time the participation ratio is raised, the final
evolution strategy of the system users is to participate in data
sharing. The users’ evolutionary strategy is to participate in
data sharing when the incentive gain continues to increase to
a value of 3 for I.
Based on the above analysis, it can be verified that when the
initial proportion of participating users in the system is low,
such as Θ = 0.2, the incentive gain can be increased appro-
priately (I = 3) to promote user participation in data sharing.
This approach allows the number of participating users in the
system to increase. The corresponding proportion of partici-
pating users is increased. The incentive gain can be gradually
adjusted; for example, when the value of Θ is 0.45, the value
of the incentive gain I is 2, and it still allows the evolutionary
strategy of the users to tend toward participation. Similarly,
when the value of I is 1, the participation ratio Θ = 0.7
still promotes users’ participation in data sharing, although
the participation gain is relatively reduced.
2) Impact of the Participation Strategy on the Model
Accuracy: To evaluate the impact of the proposed dynamic
incentive mechanism on the federated learning process in
this data sharing study, an experimental analysis was con-
ducted through the accuracy of the machine learning models
trained with different numbers of user participants. The model
accuracy was calculated as shown in
Accuracy = (TP+ TN)/(TP+ FP+ TN+ FN). (8)
The meanings of the symbols in the above equations are
listed in Table VII.
The machine learning experiment environment is built in
Python (version 3.7.4). The TensorFlow library (version 2.3.2)
and Keras Library (version 2.4.3) are introduced to build
TABLE VII
MEANING OF SYMBOLS IN THE MODEL ACCURACY EQUATIONS
Fig. 11. Model accuracy rate under different user participation numbers.
machine learning models. The dataset used in the experiment
is the MNIST dataset. Each data point is a picture of handwrit-
ten digits containing 0 to 9. MNIST contains 60 000 training
datasets and 10 000 test datasets. The convolutional neural
network (CNN) model is used as an experimental training
model. During the experiment, the training dataset was ran-
domly divided into ten datasets of equal size, and each group
contained 6000 data points, which were assigned to ten users.
Each user can choose whether to participate in the model train-
ing of federated learning based on his local dataset. Then,
the experiment simulates the model training situation under
the participation of different numbers of users, with only one
user participating as the comparison object. The experimental
results obtained are shown in Fig. 11.
Fig. 11 shows that the larger the number of collaborative
users who participate in the training of the model, the larger
the total training data of the model. Thus, the accuracy rate is
higher.
C. Comparative Analysis
Our work proposes for the first time to solve the incen-
tive problem in the process of federated learning based on
evolutionary game theory. Through the above simulation and
experimental analysis, the proposed DIM-DS model can effec-
tively encourage users to participate in data sharing. In the
system simulation experiments, our work sets the total num-
ber of users in the system to 3000. To correspond to Section
IV-A, each coefficient k1 = 1, k2 = 0.2, and λ = 2 is
set. We consider the participation cost of users to be nor-
mally distributed with a mean of 10 and the data correlation
to be randomly distributed within [0, 1]. The simulation
comparison results are shown in Fig. 12. For the same set
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
24582 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
Fig. 12. Participation rates of users in different sizes under the condition of
satisfying the evolutionary game.
of data providers (set size from 1 to 300), we compare the
user participation rate of the DIM-DS incentive mechanism
with the payment-based incentive mechanism [11] and the
noncooperative game-based incentive mechanism [13] under
the condition that the evolutionary game is satisfied. When the
evolutionary game condition is satisfied, users tend to adopt
the “participation” strategy, and the user strategy is more sta-
ble. At the same time, the payment-based incentives are not
stable in terms of user participation rate, and the noncoop-
erative game-based incentives have limited incentive effect,
as shown in Fig. 12. Under the condition of satisfying the
evolutionary game, the incentive benefit received by the data
provider always makes it inclined to adopt the “participation”
strategy, so that all data participants in the system can par-
ticipate in the data sharing under the condition of sufficient
time. Payment-based incentives, such as [11], do not take into
account the relationship between the amount of payment and
users’ willingness to participate, so when the total incentive
amount is certain, the strategy adopted by users is not stable
and the incentive effect is mediocre. Meanwhile, the incentive
mechanism based on noncooperative game [13] is not very
effective because the benefits between users are tit-for-tat, so
only those users with high final benefits tend to participate in
data sharing.
1) Fairness: Usually, the value of data is evaluated by a
third-party central agency, and a corresponding pric-
ing plan is given. However, the third-party central
agency could cooperate with dishonest users to con-
duct common evils and act unfairly against users. In
the established DIM-DS model, users obtain expected
benefits by invoking smart contracts. The expected ben-
efits are automatically calculated based on the user’s
data similarity and credibility. The expected benefits do
not require review by a third-party central agency to
ensure the participants’ fairness. In collaborative tasks,
data similarity and contribution value are positively cor-
related, i.e., the higher the contribution value, the higher
the fixed benefit, and therefore fair.
2) Bounded Rationality: The dynamic incentive model
proposed in our work combines the ideas of evolutionary
game theory. Compared with the current game theory,
it no longer assumes that users are completely rational.
However, it can continuously adjust their own decisions
based on the limited information they have obtained.
It conforms to the characteristics of the user’s limited
rationality in the real world.
3) Stability: The DIM-DS model analyzes the equilibrium
points of the system user strategies under different con-
ditions based on the “Nash equilibrium” in game theory.
The model combines smart contract technology and
dynamically adjusts the user’s participation benefits in
such a way that the user’s final evolution strategy tends
to participate to make decisions and to maintain sta-
bility. The stability of user participation includes two
aspects, one is that the user participation rate is subject
to small changes in the size of data providers in the
system, and the other is that the user participation rate
can fluctuate up and down at a high level. As the size
of data providers in the system increases, the change
of user participation rate is influenced by different
incentives. Under the condition of satisfying the evo-
lutionary game, the participation rate of data providers
is always maintained above 95%, and it also has high
theoretical stability (analyzed in Section III). Ceteris
paribus, under the payment-based incentive mechanism,
the user participation rate decreases rapidly as the data
provider size increases when the data provider size is
small, so it is less stable in small and medium-sized
data-sharing systems (data provider size is less than
100), while it can have better stability in large-scale
systems (data provider size is generally above 100),
and the user participation rate is maintained at around
50%. Under the incentive mechanism based on nonco-
operative game, the user participation rate shows more
stable results, but the participation level is insufficient
and can only incentivize the providers with high data
competitiveness.
4) Incentive Compatibility: The criterion of incentive com-
patibility is to achieve the consistency of the ultimate
goals of the mechanism designer and the demander. In
other words, while individuals pursue the maximization
of personal interests, they also maximize collective
interests. In the incentive mechanism designed in our
work, the data provider related to the data request also
belongs to the mechanism demander. As a mechanism
designer, the goal is to enable each data provider to
participate in federated learning to obtain better model
effects. In the mechanism designed in our work, each
participant can choose whether to participate in the col-
laborative task of federated learning. However, it can
gain benefits only by participating in the strategy. Under
the dynamic incentive mechanism, each user is allowed
to participate in the collaboration. The dynamic incen-
tive mechanism maximizes the effect of the final model
trained by federated learning and meets the setting of
incentive compatibility.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CHEN et al.: DIM-DS: DYNAMIC INCENTIVE MODEL FOR DATA SHARING IN FEDERATED LEARNING 24583
TABLE VIII
SECURITY COMPARISON OF VARIOUS DATA-SHARING SCHEMES
5) Security analysis: We discuss the security of the system
for possible collusion attacks as follows. The key to
collusion attacks is that multiple malicious users join
together to gain benefits, but in our system, even if
multiple malicious users join together, their own rep-
utation coin amounts and data similarity do not change,
so they gain the same benefits as they would have with-
out joining together. Therefore, our model is resistant to
collusion attacks. In our system, the attack behavior of
malicious users is generally to participate in the collab-
orative task by low quality or even wrong data, but low
quality data cannot give malicious users enough benefit
to cover the cost, so malicious users have to participate
in the collaborative task honestly if they want to get the
benefit.
Based on the above analysis, combined with the represen-
tative incentive schemes introduced in the overview part of
our work, the incentive effects are compared. The comparison
results are shown in Table VIII.
V. CONCLUSION
To address the existing studies on data-sharing incentives
that do not maximize the proportion of participating users in
the system or analyze the stability of user participation strate-
gies, our work proposes a dynamic incentive model for data
sharing in federated learning (DIM-DS) based on smart con-
tracts and evolutionary game theory. We compared the impact
of different numbers of users participating in model training on
model accuracy and verified that the DIM-DS proposed in our
work maximizes the proportion of system users participating.
Our approach can effectively encourage users to participate in
federated learning collaboration and maintain stability, which
is significantly better than other solutions. Meanwhile, the
proposed DIM-DS model is based on the general data-sharing
scenario in federated learning, so it can be used in multiple
scenarios of federated learning. Our next work will consider
its application to specific scenarios.
REFERENCES
[1] “China institute of electronic technology standardization,” Ind.
Big Data, White Paper, Apr. 2019, p. 17. [Online]. Available:
http://www.cesi.cn/images/editor/20190401/20190401145953698.pdf
[2] J. Wang, “Analysis of the current situation of big data applications in
China,” Softw. Integr. Circuits, no. 11, pp. 72–87, 2020.
[3] “Guiding Opinions on the Development of Industrial Big Data.” Ministry
of Industry and Information Technology Publish. 2020. [Online].
Available: http://www.cac.gov.cn/2020-05/16/c_1591178516420666.htm
[4] R. Jurca and B. Faltings, “An incentive compatible reputa-
tion mechanism,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. E-Commerce, 2003,
pp. 285–292.
[5] S. Zhong, J. Chen, and Y. R. Yang, “Sprite: A simple, cheat-proof,
credit-based system for mobile ad-hoc networks,” in Proc. IEEE
INFOCOM 22nd Annu. Joint Conf. IEEE Comput. Commun. Soc., 2003,
pp. 1987–1997.
[6] B. B. Chen and M. C. Chan, “MobiCent: A credit-based incentive
system for disruption tolerant network,” in Proc. IEEE INFOCOM, 2010,
pp. 1–9.
[7] U. Shevade, H. H. Song, L. Qiu, and Y. Zhang, “Incentive-aware routing
in DTNs,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Netw. Protocols, 2008, pp. 238–247.
[8] J. Weng, J. Weng, J. Zhang, M. Li, Y. Zhang, and W. Luo, “DeepChain:
Auditable and privacy-preserving deep learning with blockchain-based
incentive,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 18, no. 5,
pp. 2438–2455, Sep./Oct. 2021.
[9] Y. Yuan and F. Wang, “Blockchain technology development status and
outlook,” J. Autom., vol. 42, no. 4, pp. 481–494, 2016.
[10] J. Kang et al., “Blockchain for secure and efficient data sharing in vehic-
ular edge computing and networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6,
no. 3, pp. 4660–4670, Jun. 2018.
[11] L. Li et al., “CreditCoin: A privacy-preserving blockchain-based incen-
tive announcement network for communications of smart vehicles,”
IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2204–2220,
Jul. 2018.
[12] X. Deng and M. Huang, “P2P incentive mechanism based on hybrid
strategic game,” Electron. Technol. Appl., vol. 36, no. 6, pp. 127–129,
2010.
[13] X. Lin, J. Li, J. Wu, H. Liang, and W. Yang, “Making knowledge trad-
able in edge-AI enabled IoT: A consortium blockchain-based efficient
and incentive approach,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 12,
pp. 6367–6378, Dec. 2019.
[14] H.-N. Dai, Z. Zheng, and Y. Zhang, “Blockchain for Internet of Things:
A survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8076–8094,
Oct. 2019.
[15] M. Shen, X. Tang, L. Zhu, X. Du, and M. Guizani, “Privacy-
preserving support vector machine training over blockchain-based
encrypted IoT data in smart cities,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6,
no. 5, pp. 7702–7712, Oct. 2019.
[16] Y. Zhan, J. Zhang, Z. Hong, L. Wu, P. Li, and S. Guo, “A survey
of incentive mechanism design for federated learning,” IEEE Trans.
Emerg. Topics Comput., vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 1035–1044, Apr.–Jun. 2022,
doi: 10.1109/TETC.2021.3063517.
[17] Y. Chen et al., “DS2PM:A data sharing privacy protection model based
on blockchain and federated learning,” IEEE Internet Things J., early
access, Dec. 13, 2021, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3134755.
[18] K. Yue et al., “A survey of decentralizing applications via blockchain:
The 5G and beyond perspective,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts, vol. 23,
no. 4, pp. 2191–2217, 4th Quart., 2021.
[19] W. Li, H. Qi, R. Xu, X. Zhou, and K. Li, “Research progress and trends
of data centre network traffic scheduling,” J. Comput. Sci., vol. 43, no. 4,
pp. 600–617, 2020.
[20] C. Wang and J. Feng, “Research on the application of federated learning
in the insurance industry,” J. Acad. Insur. Prof., vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 13–17,
2020.
[21] W. Chen, Y. Mu, X. Liang, and Y. Gao, “Medical data sharing model
based on blockchain,” J. Phys. Conf. Ser., vol. 1267, no. 1, 2019,
Art. no. 12014.
[22] Y. Zhan, P. Li, K. Wang, S. Guo, and Y. Xia, “Big data analytics
by CrowdLearning: Architecture and mechanism design,” IEEE Netw.,
vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 143–147, May/Jun. 2020.
[23] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, H. Yu, Y.-C. Liang, and D. I. Kim,
“Incentive design for efficient federated learning in mobile networks:
A contract theory approach,” in Proc. IEEE VTS Asia–Pacific Wireless
Commun. Symp. (APWCS), 2019, pp. 1–5.
[24] M. Xu et al., “A full dive into realizing the edge-enabled
metaverse: Visions, enabling technologies,and challenges,” 2022,
arXiv:2203.05471.
[25] W. Y. B. Lim et al., “Realizing the metaverse with edge intelligence: A
match made in heaven,” 2022, arXiv:2201.01634.
[26] W. Y. B. Lim et al., “Decentralized edge intelligence: A dynamic
resource allocation framework for hierarchical federated learning,”
IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 536–550,
Mar. 2022.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TETC.2021.3063517
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3134755
24584 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 9, NO. 23, 1 DECEMBER 2022
Yanru Chen received the master’s degree in man-
agement (finance) from the University of Melbourne,
Melbourne, VIC, Australia, in 2018. She is cur-
rently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the Embedded
Systems and Big Data Management Laboratory
and the Internet of Things Laboratory, College of
Computer Science, Sichuan University, Chengdu,
China, under the supervision of Prof. B. Guo.
Her research interests include blockchains, wire-
less sensor networks, cognitive psychology, per-
sonal financial big data, computational finance, and
financial data space.
Yuanyuan Zhang (Graduate Student
Member, IEEE) received the master’s degree
from the College of Computer Science, Sichuan
University, Chengdu, China, in 2020, where she
is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the
College of Computer Science, under the guidance
of Professor Liangyin Chen.
She is interested in blockchains, wireless sensor
network, machine learning, and big data.
Shengwei Wang is currently pursuing the master’s
degree in electronic information with the College
of Computer Science, Sichuan University, Chengdu,
China.
His research interests include blockchains,
Internet of Things, big data analytics, and computer
networks.
Fan Wang received the master’s degree from the
College of Computer Science, Sichuan University,
Chendu, China, in 2021.
Her research interests include blockchains,
Industrial Internet, and edge computing.
Yang Li received the B.S. degree in physics and
the Ph.D. degree in radio physics from Peking
university, Beijing, China, in 2007 and 2012,
respectively.
He is currently a Senior Engineer with
the Department of Science and Technology,
Communication Security Laboratory, Institute of
Southwestern Communication, Chengdu, China.
His research interests include blockchains, quantum
cryptography, quantum secure communication, and
quantum information.
Yuming Jiang received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
in mechanical manufacture and automation from
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China, in 1990 and
2001, respectively.
He is a Professor with the College of Computer
Science, Sichuan University. His current research
interests include blockchains and big data.
Liangyin Chen (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree from the College of Computer Science,
Sichuan University, Chengdu, China, in 2008.
He joined the School of Computer Science,
Sichuan University, where he has been a Professor
since 2014. He works as the Director of Sichuan Big
Data Analysis and Fusion Application Technology
Engineering Laboratory. From 2009 to 2010, he
was a Visiting Researcher with the University
of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA, under the
supervision of Prof. T. He has authored or coau-
thored more than 100 papers, many of which were published in pre-
mier network journals and conferences, such as IEEE COMMUNICATIONS
SURVEYS & TUTORIALS, IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON MOBILE COMPUTING, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON
INFORMATION FORENSICS AND SECURITY, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON
INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, Knowledge-Based Systems, IEEE International
Conference on Computer Communications, ACM International Conference
on Multimedia, IEEE Communications Society Conference on Sensor and
Ad Hoc Communications and Networks, and ACM Conference on Embedded
Networked Sensor Systems. His research interests include wireless sensor
networks, Intelligent Internet of Things and IoT security, Industrial Internet,
blockchains, and big data.
Bing Guo received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in
computer science from the University of Electronic
Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, China,
in 1999 and 2002, respectively.
He is currently a Professor with Sichuan
University. His current research interests include
blockchains, green computing, and big personal data.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:03:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-Condensed-Bold
    /Helvetica-LightOblique
    /HelveticaNeue-Bold
    /HelveticaNeue-BoldItalic
    /HelveticaNeue-Condensed
    /HelveticaNeue-CondensedObl
    /HelveticaNeue-Italic
    /HelveticaNeueLightcon-LightCond
    /HelveticaNeue-MediumCond
    /HelveticaNeue-MediumCondObl
    /HelveticaNeue-Roman
    /HelveticaNeue-ThinCond
    /Helvetica-Oblique
    /HelvetisADF-Bold
    /HelvetisADF-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Bold
    /HelvetisADFCd-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Italic
    /HelvetisADFCd-Regular
    /HelvetisADFEx-Bold
    /HelvetisADFEx-BoldItalic
    /HelvetisADFEx-Italic
    /HelvetisADFEx-Regular
    /HelvetisADF-Italic
    /HelvetisADF-Regular
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice