Building an Inclusive Distributed Ledger System
Building an Inclusive Distributed Ledger System 
Cynthia Dookie
Banking Technology Contractor
Princes Town, 851130, Trinidad and Tobago
cynthiadookie@gmail.com
Abstract—In  2008,  bitcoin  disrupted  the  transactional 
ecosystem  with  its  value  propositions.  However,  sustaining 
autonomous, deregulated systems in markets filled with laws and 
regulations has had its challenges. There are also open questions 
of  scalability,  resilience,  availability,  speed  and  finality  of 
transactions. Sound technical components have emerged but we 
need  to  take  this  one  step  further  and  integrate  the  units  to 
provide an accepted packaged solution. Using a game application 
as an entry point, we propose a simple, inclusive asset transfer 
system which will stimulate adoption and create traction in the 
distributed ledger universe.
Index Terms—blockchain, biodata, scaling, ancestral node
I. INTRODUCTION
Moving the distributed ledger  system, (DLS),  into main-
stream requires a catalyst. We therefore need to widen the con-
sensus pool away from techies and increase usability with a 
compelling, front end application coupled with a proven con-
sensus protocol. We further believe that creation of new assets 
in the mining process further inhibits inclusiveness across vari-
ous sectors and crypto assets should not be used as rewards or 
fees. Randomly generated cryptic keys give anonymity and se-
cure transactions or outputs. However the need to store these 
keys on accessible devices and pieces of paper pose a security 
risk which also hinders inclusivity. In order to maintain a net-
work’s resilience, we need to maintain a sustainable size that 
matches the available storage space both at the core and at the 
personal space of its participants. Simple size maintenance al-
gorithms must be part of the DLS’s core processes. In addition, 
reduction  of  fees  required  in  executing  contracts  compels  a 
more attractive and inclusive peer to peer transfer system.
II. COMPONENTS OF OUR PROPOSED DLS
Reengineering existing DLS components can be the solu-
tion for enabling an inclusive DLS. Our approach is to modify 
and integrate existing processes from diverse sources to create 
a scalable DLS solution with an improved delivery system, in-
creased token security, and one that allows parameterization.
A. GPS Enabled Game Application as an Access Node
Participation  builds  an  inclusive  community.  A 
TechCrunch report [1], states that games are played by almost 
every demographic stratum of society and gamers are a third of 
the world’s population. A gaming application is therefore the 
perfect vehicle to be used as a building block to our inclusive 
DLS. We therefore propose the development of a high-entropy 
GPS or augmented reality game like Pokémon Go, which will 
be bootstrapped to the node of the DLS. The consensus mecha-
nism will form part of the game’s objectives and the DLS node 
setup and core services’  algorithms  will be reengineered and 
integrated into the game’s backbone so that it appears seamless 
to  the  gamer.  As  rewards, gamers  will  form the  pool  from 
which validators and committee members are chosen to partici-
pate in the consensus mechanism and add blocks.
B. An Ancestral Node to Seed Credentials
We  propose  a  structure  with  an  ancestral  node  which 
spawns child nodes, (bootstrapped to the game), linked to per-
missionless DLS. Registration on the ancestral node is via the 
game application after  which a spawned child node is back 
linked to the DLS. Transfer of assets can only be made by an-
cestral node registrants. Gamers who are non asset owners can 
choose not to register and retain connection only to  the  DLS 
thus creating an expanded inclusive peer community. 
C. Keys Generated from Biodata
Jagadeesan and Duraiswamy in their paper, “Secured Cryp-
tographic Key Generation from Multimodal Biometrics: Fea-
ture Level Fusion of Fingerprint and Iris [2],” claims that they 
have an efficient approach for the secure key generation on the 
basis of multiple modalities like, Iris and fingerprint. Minutiae 
points and iris texture are then fused by processes of concate-
nation, shuffling and merging to build the multimodal biomet-
ric template. This template is then used to generate the required 
secure  256 bit  cryptographic  key.  We  can  use  this  crypto-
graphic key to generate a public key used to sign outputs. For 
accounts where there are multiple signatories to the token, one 
public key can be associated to multiple private keys as sug-
gested by Nayak, Ashok and Awasthi in their paper, “Multiple 
Private Keys with NTRU Cryptosystem [3],” thus creating a 
more inclusive DLS.
D. Tailored References of Outputs
Movement of assets is represented by outputs or change of 
state which are defined by its attributes. By tailoring the refer-
ence of these attributes, we can offer generality of code that is 
parameter driven allowing extensibility towards a more autono-
mous and inclusive structure instead of smart contracts with su-
perfluous strings and fees for execution. For each asset type, 
we can parameterize its unit, type and restrictions. 
E. Grouping of Blocks for Pruning and Size Maintenance
Creating a system to completely remove and archive the 
oldest blocks without disrupting the immutability of the chain 
978-1-7281-5143-4/20/$31.00 c© 2020 IEEE SANER 2020, London, ON, Canada
LBI Track
668
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:44:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
can solve the scalability issue. We propose a system structured 
into groups where each new group starts with blocks containing 
unspent outputs transferred from the oldest blocks. These trans-
actions  are  broadcasted  and  verified  as  other  outputs.  Total 
number of blocks in a DLS is predetermined and should reflect 
a manageable size, thus creating an inclusive structure suited 
for both small and large entities. Equation (1) determines the 
optimal number of blocks, (x), where (t) is the anticipated out-
puts per day using an estimation of five hundred outputs per 
block and the maintenance of a ninety day output history.
x= ((t/500)*90) (1)
Equation  (2)  determines the number  of  blocks  (y)  to  be 
grouped together for an optimal number of blocks (x). We give 
a hundred groups as a manageable structure.
y= ((ceiling(x, 1000)/100) (2)
Equation (3) determines the number of blocks (c) to be read 
and consolidated at each instance for a given group size (y).
c= (y/2) (3)
Pruning does not coincide with grouping and should be de-
layed for at least two cycles. Automated scripts will create new 
groups  not  interrupting  the  continuous  processes.  Archived 
ledgers set to read only and encrypted with the signatures of the 
owners of the brought forward outputs should be available on 
demand. Nodes can decide whether to store these ledgers on or 
off the network. Please note that this process will only work if 
the DLS is for peer to peer movement of assets not hoarding.
F. The Byzantine Agreement as the Consensus Protocol
Taking advantage of Algorand [4] strong byzantine agree-
ment, we integrate this consensus protocol into our game soft-
ware. The gamers will provide a pool for Algorand’s crypto-
graphic sortition [5] from which committee members, leaders 
and validators are chosen. These roles must appear as roles in 
the game.  Jing Chen and Silvio Micali in their paper, “Algo-
rand [5],” explain that their nonce is a certificate made up of 
both a long term and an ephemeral key of the consensus team. 
As the long term key, we use the built in encryption of the 
game bootstrapping process and the ephemeral key is produced 
by a random generator seeded with two sources of entropy col-
lected during the game as paths and images change. Halpin and 
Naor [6], suggests that the competitive nature of a game makes 
humans act more randomly which can be a source for random-
ness for cryptographic purpose.
G. Participation Rewards
With Algorand’s [4] message passing byzantine agreement, 
there is no need for miners. However it is necessary to provide 
incentives and rewards so that gamers will strive to participate 
in the consensus. Reward points to assist in enhancing the gam-
ing experience or coupons, discounts and products from finan-
cial sponsors can be offered. In addition, with our GPS enabled 
game, we can offer geolocation advertising to generate income. 
III. BEYOND THE “GREEN SCREEN”
Although there are many APIs available to assist in creating 
a client node on your personal device,  setup instructions are 
more suitable to programmers than to the everyday tablet user. 
Even adding smart contracts to your blockchain requires some 
programming.  We  propose  to  take  this  system  beyond  the 
“green screen” and move it to mainstream with our game de-
sign approach. This ambitious approach offers innovation with 
its client services deployment as well as the removal of the de-
pendency to dwindling cryptocurrency reserves as is being ex-
perienced by other DLSs.
IV. A PRACTICAL APPLICATION
Our proposed DLS is better suited for fostering a cashless 
society with its potential for mass adoption and inclusion than 
other DLSs which are encumbered by mining of crypto assets, 
fees and mining pool cartels.  This application is suitable for 
Central Banks who through the ancestral node can act as a bu-
reau de change to convert tokens to and from fiat currencies 
and run compliance and identity checks to thwart money laun-
dering and terrorist financing. Once tokens are recorded in the 
permissionless DLS, they are as good as cash and can be trans-
ferred within the network without monitoring, transfer fees and 
settlement delays. 
V. CONCLUSION
We have introduced game-playing as an incentive to stimu-
late participation and expand the consensus pool. By integrat-
ing Algorand [4] consensus protocol, we can provide secure, 
instantaneous outputs. We have proposed keys generated from 
biodata and a system of maintaining optimal size without com-
promising the immutability of the links. We have suggested pa-
rameterizing our outputs scripts in an attempt to make peer to 
peer  transfer  in  a  trustless  environment  feeless.  With  these 
components, we believe we can build a new, inclusive distrib-
uted ledger system suited for either small or large public or pri-
vate enterprises.
REFERENCES
[1] Omer Kaplan, “Mobile gaming is a $68.5 billion global business 
and investors are buying in”, August 22, 2019, pp 2 [Online]: 
https://techcrunch.com/2019/08/22/mobile-gaming-mints-
money/
[2] A. Jagadeesan, Dr. K. Duraiswamy, “Secured cryptographic key 
generation from multimodal biometrics: feature level fusion of 
fingerprint and iris”, International Journal of Computer Science 
and Information Security, vol 7, No 2, February 2010
[3]  Rakesh Nayak, Ashok Kumar Nanda and Lalit Kumar Awasthi, 
“Multiple  Private  Keys  with  NTRU  Cryptosystem”,  Interna-
tional  Journal  of  Research  in  Computer  and  Communication 
Technology, Vol 4, Issue 3, March -2015
[4] Jing Chen, Sergey Gorbunov, Silvio Micali and Georgios Vla-
chos,  “Algorand  Agreement  Superfast  and  partition  resilient 
byzantine agreement”, April 25, 2018, [Online]:  https://eprint.i-
acr.org/2018/377.pdf
[5] Jing  Chen,  Silvio  Micali,  “Algorand  Theoretical  Paper”  May 
2017, pp 4-13, [Online]: https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.01341
[6] Ran Halprin , Moni Naor, “Games for extracting randomness”, 
Proceedings of the 5th Symposium on Usable Privacy and Secu-
rity, July 15-17, 2009, pp 10, Mountain View, California, USA, 
[Online]: http//doi.acm.org/10.1145/1572532.1572548
669
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:44:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.