Blockchain and Smart Contracts for Support the Interaction between the Actors in the Regional Innovation System
Copyright © IEEE–2018 978-1-5386-6369-1 27
Proceedings of the SMART–2018, IEEE Conference ID: 44078   
2018 International Conference on System Modeling & Advancement in Research Trends, 23rd–24th November, 2018  
College of Computing Sciences & Information Technology, Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Moradabad, India
Abstract—The paper covers the issues of development 
of a mechanism for ensuring reliable and secure interaction 
among participants in regional innovation systems based 
on the establishment of smart contracts in the blockchain. 
The technology allows to reduce the possibility of fraud by 
dishonest participants, as well as to exclude the need for a 
third party by transferring its functions to a smart contract. 
This mechanism is important for ensuring confidential and 
transparent relations between participants in innovative 
projects, as well as with all interested stakeholders in regional 
economic system.
Keywords: Interaction Management, Cyber-Social System, 
Multi-Agent Approach, Benchmarking, Big Data, Intellectual 
Analysis, Region
I. Introduction
The strengthening of interactions between interested 
participants in a regional system appears to be an important 
mechanism of innovation activity development from 
the emergence of an idea to the commercialization of 
innovation. As a rule, there are growing instability and 
uncertainty of existing links and relationships at innovation 
activity stages, which, in particular, stimulate the growth of 
transaction costs. This determines high costs of development 
and implementation of innovations. Such costs are not of 
transformational nature associated with transformations and 
changes of initial resources, but of transactional one that is 
determined by a necessity of collaborations and mutually 
beneficial contacts. Therefore, one should consider 
transaction costs as a barrier to the innovative development 
in the regions demotivating companies when implementing 
innovations [1,2]. 
It is reasonable to use cyber-social technologies to 
organize and support an innovation system that simplify 
and promote interactions between innovation activity 
participants by performing a situational analysis of large 
arrays of structured and unstructured data on innovation 
activity subjects in the regions. An innovation system that 
actively uses the said technologies when interacting with 
many other regional innovation activity participants will 
ensure the synergetic effect. Such IS is an adaptive intelligent 
information system uniting social and intellectual processes 
[4]. It may be implemented in the form of an Internet-portal 
linking regional innovation medium participants (innovation 
infrastructure facilities; universities and research centers; 
small, medium and large companies; state bodies and 
structures; users and the community). 
II. Blockchain and Smart Contracts for 
Support the Interaction of  
Innovation Stakeholders 
It should be noted that elements of any cyber-social 
system depend on the provided safe and reliable interaction 
within transaction processes aimed at elaboration and 
implementation of development mechanisms, including the 
innovation ones. The trending transition to digital economy 
means that the most processes of informational interaction 
should be carried out with minimal human involvement. 
At the same time an important role in digital economy is 
assigned to safety and transparency of transactions between 
interacting agents that should be provided by blockchain 
and smart contracts. 
It is known that purchasing, selling and renting 
various products and services on the Internet and by online 
commerce is a complicated task. The main problem is 
trust relationships or a lack thereof between unacquainted 
transaction participants. To solve this problem it is required 
to address the third party for guarantees of transaction 
settlement. But even in this case the problem of safety is 
not resolved by high reliability. In risk management the 
technology of the distributed register (blockchain) is being 
applied more actively, as it reduces the probability of fraud 
from dishonest participants and excludes the need for the 
third party by transferring its functions to the intelligent 
system [5].
Blockchain is a specifically structured uninterrupted 
sequential chain of blocks (chained list, distributed 
register) containing information on participants and 
existing innovations [6]. Copies of blockchains are stored 
Blockchain and Smart Contracts for Support the 
Interaction between the Actors in the Regional 
Innovation System
Alexey Finogeev1, Sergey Vasin2, Leyla Gamidullaeva3 and Danila Parygin4 
1,2Professor, Penza State University, Penza, Russia
3Associate Professor, Penza State University, Penza, Russia
4Associate Professor, Volgograd State Technical University, Volgograd, Russia
E-mail: 1alexeyfinogeev@gmail.com, 2pspu-met@mail.ru, 3gamidullaeva@gmail.com, 4dparygin@gmail.com
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 International Conference on System Modeling & Advancement in Research Trends, 23rd–24th November, 2018  
College of Computing Sciences & Information Technology, Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Moradabad, India
28 Copyright © IEEE–2018 978-1-5386-6369-1
and processed independently from each other in multiple 
network nodes [7,8]. Originally the term referred to the 
completely replicated distributed data base (register) 
designed for the “Bitcoin” system, as the technology was 
initially intended for cryptocurrency transactions. Although 
blockchain can be applied to any interconnected information 
objects. All data are stored in network nodes of users of 
the distributed register system. Each node stores a part of 
information in the form of data blocks or copies of such 
blocks. This principle makes the system virtually invincible 
to information threats and attacks, all the more these 
blocks are protected by cryptographic keys and calculated 
using the algorithm of hash-functions. The advantages 
of blockchain are transaction transparency and multiple 
copying of transactions so that each participant always 
has information about the steps taken by all partners. It is 
important for ensuring trustful and transparent relationships 
between innovation project participants, as well as other 
interested regional subjects of the socioeconomic activity. 
The blockchain technology offers the distributed storage 
to save data required to complete a transaction or any 
informational interaction of many participants (agents). The 
technology is capable of storing the following data: product 
or service documentation, financial transaction records, 
contractual obligations, personal data, intellectual property 
rights, copyrights, digital description of intellectual property 
entities, company information, etc. One of the advantages 
of the technology for innovation systems is a possibility to 
lodge authorship without the third party or any geographical 
binding. The authenticity of informational objects is proved 
by a digital certificate. By virtue of blockchain authors 
can prove copyrights and intellectual property rights. The 
technology ensures safe storage of updated information on 
any innovation objects.
The distributed register will make it possible to track 
the life span of innovation activity results and the impact 
of these results when creating innovations. For example, 
open-access scientific publications are sources for patent 
creation. Researchers who publish such results often are 
university employees uninvolved in economic processes. 
At the same time, patent holders may use published results 
of somebody’s research when registering intellectual 
property rights without referring to these results. If we build 
a blockchain of intellectual property objects and scientific 
publications, than the register will help track down the 
process of sharing and using knowledge when synthesizing 
new results of the intellectual activity. It will be possible to 
identify the author of an idea and to distribute remuneration. 
For example, Ascribe company by means of blockchain 
helps artists prove authorship rights to pieces of art using 
unique identifiers and digital certificates. The procedure of 
ownership rights transfer from artists or authors to buyers or 
collectors is also provided for [10].
The objects of smart contracts may be the following:
 • Interacting parties accepting or declining contract’s 
conditions via digital signatures, 
 • Contract’s subjects including objects in the field of 
contract’s existence, 
 • Conditions that display a logic of contract clause 
execution in the form of a formalized mathematical 
description, which can be programmed in the field 
of contract’s existence. 
In turn, the existence of smart contracts requires as 
follows:
 • Application of digital signatures on the basis 
of public and private keys through asymmetric 
encryption,
 • Presence of open distributed data bases for storing 
of data on executable transactions with access for 
contracting parties,
 • Availability of a distributed network to execute 
Ethereum, Codius, Counterparty contracts, etc.,
 • Digital data source validation, for example, by 
means of SSL certification centers.
Today modern blockchain platforms are used to 
develop decentralized applications (DApps). Although 
decentralizaed applications are similar to smart contracts, 
they have no direct connection with funds and enable to 
utilize blockchain for any means [14]. DApps have no 
limitations in the number of participants and they are 
independent from market segments. 
III. Blockchain Platforms for Smart  
Contracts and Dapps 
Among modern blockchain platforms one should 
distinguish Ethereum, Aeternity, Hyperledger Fabric, 
Cardano [15]. 
The Ethereum platform and the cryptocurrency of the 
same name are intended for creation of smart contracts and 
DApps [16]. The platform enables to create DApps and 
use the Internet for transactions of any complexity. It is 
designed as a uniform decentralized virtual machine. Based 
on the given platform the smart contract technology allows 
to register any transactions with assets in the distributed 
base of contracts realized through hashing in blockhains. 
Ethereum users ensure calculation of hash totals by 
themselves in their computers. The Ethereum system runs 
on the embedded programming language-Solidity, using 
which one can write new smart contracts with random 
ownership parameters, transaction formats and status 
changing functions. 
The Aeternity platform offers a unique solution to the 
scaling problem, so that smart contracts have no effect on 
the said parameter [18]. The system functions on the basis 
of the Lightning Network payment protocol [19], which 
operates with blockchains and executes instant transactions 
between nodes settling the problem of scaling. It adds the 
logical level assuming the load of an increasing number of 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Copyright © IEEE–2018 978-1-5386-6369-1 29
Blockchain and Smart Contracts for Support the Interaction between the Actors in the Regional Innovation System
transactions. At the same time, the transactions between 
participants within smart contracts take place in dedicated 
channels without including the whole blockchain into the 
process. The main blockchain is used only as the distributed 
register to make account of financial consequences of 
successful transactions or as a decentralized arbitrator in 
case of controversies. 
The Hyperledger Fabric platform is the open blockchain 
for universal application [20]. The project was launched 
in 2016 supported by IBM and JP Morgan. The platform 
is capable of synthesizing applications and utilizes the 
technology of blockchain multilayer configuration. The last 
version features private transaction channels distinguished 
by high reliability and throughput.
The Cardano platform is a blockchain platform of the 
third generation [21]. The system is designed to provide 
scalable programmed transfer of cryptocurrency value. The 
blockchain is written in Haskell programming language. 
The main distinctive feature is the division of computing 
layers. In particular, the system has a settlement layer for 
the ADA cryptocurrency turnover and a layer to handle 
smart contract synthesis and operation. The system 
applies a consensus algorithm on the basis of Proof-of-
stake, in which the probability of creation of a block in 
the chain by a participant is proportional to his/her share 
in cryptocurrency units. This makes it possible for owners 
to control transactions in the network, to increase power 
efficiency and scalability.
In the course of the research the Ethereum blockchain 
platform was selected to create smart contracts during safe 
and reliable information interactions between subjects of a 
regional innovation system. The Ethereum system includes 
the following tools: Geth, Parity, CPP-Ethereum, Solidity, 
Remix, Truffle, Webpack, Web3.js, etc.
The system issues smart contracts as decentralized 
applications written on an object-oriented JavaScript-
like language-Solidity. The contracts are compiled in the 
Remix cloud development environment enabling to write 
and launch the code directly in a browser. Following the 
transition into bytecode they are executed by the Ethereum 
virtual machine realized on network computing nodes. 
Proof-of-Work is applied to build a consensus 
mechanism on the Ethereum platform. It confirms the 
transaction authenticity by network’s computing power, and 
the probability of the next block creation depends on this 
power. At the present time Ethereum is being transferred to 
the Proof-of-Stake algorithm, which would eliminate this 
dependence. 
Such programs as Geth, Parity, CPP-Ethereum are 
designed to link nodes to blockchain. They are downloaded 
to computers as clients and run the Ethereum protocol. It is 
possible to work with blockchain through web-sites using 
special browsers or add-ins like MetaMask and Mist. The 
latter are a connecting link between popular browsers and 
blockchain enabling to perform tasks and send commands 
to blockchain. 
Browsers and blockchain may also interact through the 
Web3.js library that helps working with Ethereum nodes 
via 
Remote Procedure Call (RPC) through HTTP, 
launching JSON files written in JavaScript as shown in 
figure 1. 
Fig. 1: Working with a Decentralized Application and  
Blockchain Via a Browser
IV. Results and Conclusion
To create a blockchain system of interactions between 
subjects of regional innovation system it is necessary to 
choose a platform and to develop a series of components 
on its basis that execute various transactions. The system 
must provide safe and reliable conclusion of contracts and 
accomplishment of contract obligations when developing 
and implementing innovations, as well as transfer of 
intellectual property rights, carrying out the stipulations 
of license agreements, transparency, protection and 
conservation of data on innovations and innovation 
companies, opportunities for rights and licenses usage 
monitoring in the course of innovation activities, etc. 
One of the system’s components is a distributed register 
of transactions with digital copies of innovation objects 
that basically represents a chronological digital notarial 
system. It keeps record of such transactions as innovation 
object registration, granting access to a digital passport of 
an innovation object, results of expert’s examination of an 
innovation object, object assessment by various criteria, 
object registration in a ledger, description of an object 
ownership right transfer, mutual financial settlements, 
author’s remuneration payment, settling disputes on 
intellectual property rights, etc.
The next system’s component is smart contracts. 
They offer a chance to complete multiple tasks occurring 
in the course of interaction between innovation system’s 
participants, in particular:
To create digital innovation assets and cryptocurrency 
for mutual settlements;
To collect funds for implementation of innovations 
(crowdfunding);
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 International Conference on System Modeling & Advancement in Research Trends, 23rd–24th November, 2018  
College of Computing Sciences & Information Technology, Teerthanker Mahaveer University, Moradabad, India
30 Copyright © IEEE–2018 978-1-5386-6369-1
To identify users;
To confirm authenticity of files and documents;
To confirm and check intellectual property rights;
To adopt systems of digital voting and data accounting;
To create decentralized innovation asset exchanges, etc.
An agreement for concrete IAR is created using a client 
web-application. The information about the agreement is 
entered into blockchain as a smart contract. Such contract 
is impossible to deceive, therefore, IAR ownership can be 
transferred only by the entity specified as «Current owner» 
of the contract. To fix IAR in a blockchain the owner pays 
a fee. As soon as IAR have been fixed in the blockchain, 
it is allocated a unique identifier by a computed hash 
total, visualized in the form of a QR-code on the web-site 
together with the information on innovations available for 
exchange or sale, as shown in figure 3. A potential buyer 
can acquire IAR using a browser or an installed mobile app. 
The mobile app scans a QR-code and then sends a user to 
the site with detailed information on IAR, including the 
following: IAR’s author, all previous IAR’s owners, date 
of IAR acquisition and registration, information on a patent 
(certificate of registration), IAR description, etc. Ownership 
transfer launches a function assigning the next potential 
owner. When the owner acknowledges IAR, the system 
confirms new owner’s property rights. The information 
about the new owner is added to the smart contract, thus 
synthesizing a block with new hash total. The described 
operation is paid for by the buyer (Fig. 2). 
Fig. 2: A Scheme of Smart Contract Functioning for IAR
Initially, to create the blockchain system there were 
installed such tools as Node.js v6 + LTS, Git, Ganache, 
VisualStudio Code, the Truffle framework and the web3.
js library. A lite-server was deployed for web-applications 
functioning. Smart contracts are developed and adjusted 
online via IDE Remix allowing to compile and tune 
contracts, as shown in figure 3.
 
Fig. 3: Remix Integrated Development Environment
For a smart contract to be launched in blockchain it is 
necessary to install the Ethereum client–Ganache, as well as 
the Metamask add-in to work in a browser.
The main part of the system’s business logic when 
interacting with innovation activity subjects within smart 
contracts is that users’ actions are fixed in blockchain, as 
shown in a UML use case diagram (figure 4). 
Fig. 4: UML Use Case Diagram
The paper considers issues of creation of a new 
mechanism providing reliable and safe interaction of 
regional innovation system’s participants on the basis of 
smart contracts created in blockchain. 
Further on it is planned to create smart contracts 
to accomplish various operations, transporting services 
for convenient exchange of information on transactions, 
an innovation monitoring and control system for state 
authorities, etc. 
The implementation of smart contract tools into 
regional management of innovations will make it possible 
to connect innovation producers and users, to ensure safety 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Blockchain and Smart Contracts for Support the Interaction between the Actors in the Regional Innovation System
Copyright © IEEE–2018 978-1-5386-6369-1 31
and transparency of their operations, to accumulate the 
experience of joint innovation projects, to reduce transaction 
costs for participants and potential investors. 
Acknowledgement
The reported study was funded by Russian Foundation 
for Basic Research (RFBR) according to the research 
projects № 18-010-00204, № 16-07-00031, № 18-07-00975.
References
[1] Vasin, S.M. and Gamidullaeva, L.A., (2015), ‘Development a Basic 
Model of the Innovation System,’ Review of European Studies, 
7(11). [Online], http://dx.doi.org/10.5539/res.v7n11p175 
[2] Gamidullaeva, L.A., Chernetsov, M.V., Vasin, S.M., Taktarova, 
S.V. Enhancing economic growth through innovation in Russia: 
Identifying key incentives for innovation Proceedings of the 30th 
International Business Information Management Association 
Conference (IBIMA) 8-9 November 2017 Madrid Spain. Vision 
2020: Sustainable Economic development, Innovation Management, 
and Global Growth. P. 2684-2697.
[3] Gamidullaeva, L.A., Tolstykh, T.O. Transaction Costs, Institutions 
and Regional Innovation Development: the Case of Russia. 
Proceedings of the 30th International Business Information 
Management Association Conference (IBIMA) 8-9 November 2017 
Madrid Spain. Vision 2020: Sustainable Economic development, 
Innovation Management, and Global Growth. P. 2121-2135.
[4] Finogeev, A.G. 2004. Simulation of systems-synergistic processes 
in information environments. Penza: Penza State University, p. 223.
[5] Blockchain in Russia. 2018. http://www.tadviser.ru/index.php/
Статья:Блокчейн_в_России#cite_note-7 Retrieved on 17 June 
2018.
[6] Swan, M. 2015. Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy.— 
O’Reilly Media, Inc., p. 152.
[7] Franco, P. 2014. The Blockchain. Understanding Bitcoin: 
Cryptography, Engineering and Economics. John Wiley & Sons,  
p. 288. 
[8] Antonopoulos, A. 2014. The Blockchain. Mastering Bitcoin. — 
O’Reilly Media, Inc.
[9] In Russia may appear a blocking analogue of eBay in the field of 
intellectual property management. https://forklog.com/v-rossii-
mozhet-poyavitsya-blokchejn-analog-ebay-v-sfere-upravleniya-
intellektualnymi-pravami/. Retrieved on 17 June 2018.
[10] Official site of Ascribe company. https://www.ascribe.io/
[11] In Russia may appear a blocking analogue of eBay in the field of 
intellectual property management. https://forklog.com/v-rossii-
mozhet-poyavitsya-blokchejn-analog-ebay-v-sfere-upravleniya-
intellektualnymi-pravami/ Retrieved on 7 June 2018.
[12] Szabo, N. 1997. Smart Contracts: Formalizing and Securing 
Relationships on Public Networks. First Monday. 2, 9. http://
firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/548/469
[13] Smart Contracts, Explained. Partnership Material, https://
cointelegraph.com/explained/smart-contracts-explained
[14] Decentralized platforms for smart contracts: challenges and 
solutions. https://forklog.com/detsentralizovannye-platformy-dlya-
smart-kontraktov-vyzovy-i-resheniya/
[15] Blockchain platforms. http://smart-contracts.ru/platforms.html
[16] Blockchain app platform. https://www.ethereum.org/
[17] Solidity is a contract-oriented, high-level language for implementing 
smart contracts. http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.4.24/
[18] Aeternity blockchain. https://aeternity.com/
[19] Poon, J., Dryja, T. 2016. The Bitcoin Lightning Network: scalable 
off-chain instant payments. http://lightning.network/lightning-
network-paper.pdf
[20] Hyperledger Fabric is a platform for distributed ledger solutions. 
http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release-1.1/
[21] Cardano is a decentralised public blockchain and cryptocurrency 
project and is fully open source. https://www.cardano.org/en/home/
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.