Business Potential and Impact of Industry 4.0 in Manufacturing Organizations
978-1-5386-5257-2/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE 
Business Potential and Impact of Industry 4.0 in 
Manufacturing Organizations 
 
 
Gajanan Gambhire, 
Assistant Professor, Industrial and 
Production Engineering Department, 
Vishwakarma Institute of Technology 
Pune 
gajanan.gambhire@vit.edu 
Tejas Gujar 
B.Tech Student, Industrial Engg.,  
Vishwakarma Institute of Technology 
Pune 
gujar.tejas2010@gmail.com 
 
Saurabh Pathak 
M.Tech Student, Industrial Engg., 
Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, 
Pune 
saurabhpathak05@gmail.com 
 
 
Abstract—Communication and automation was limited to 
the interaction between machine and the user with user 
being the operator of the machine. Industry 4.0 driven by 
IoT has brought the tectonic shift on how the 
communication happens which is not just limited to 
Human-Machine interaction but also Machine-Machine 
data exchange. This has led to new form of automation 
with physical systems/resources connected to internet and 
indeed with each other. These interconnected devices 
generate large amount of data which when deciphered 
properly can provide us with range of different 
applications in every possible sector. Manufacturing 
industries in India being at the forefront of this 
implementation currently, IoT provides best of 
communication and automation techniques to increase 
productivity and profits.  
Keywords—IoT; OEE, Lean; Automation; Mistake Proofing; 
Manufacturing sector, Quality Analysis; Energy sector; 
Blockchain 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Communication and automation has undergone a tectonic shift 
throughout the history and especially in recent past. 
Traditional ways of communication were manual, one way 
communication between a machine and an operator which 
were not just time consuming but also less accurate. Then was 
the digital revolution with the use of electronics and IT to 
further automate production and its processes. This industrial 
automation made waves in manufacturing sector by increasing 
productivity and reducing high human costs. In recent years 
the focus has now broadened with decision makers seeking 
solutions to make their processes more flexible, safer and 
more accurate. With the introduction of the Internet of Things 
(IoT) in industrial applications, manufacturing sector is 
undergoing a tremendous change. This is made possible in 
part by recent technological advances in computing 
communication and automation that allows interconnection on 
a wider and more fine-grained scale.  
Gathering data from mechanized equipment is not a new 
concept. Historically, on site technicians would review 
systems data on machine’s display screen and depending on 
the situation, they would make manual adjustments to fix or 
improve the process. This was slow, expensive and inefficient. 
And so the need for flexible, transparent and more efficient 
solutions surfaced (as in this case for data exchange). This is 
where IoT fits in providing us with logical next step in 
industrial communication and automation. 
 
 
The IoT is a network of connected sensors, actuators, and 
everyday objects that are used in various domains. [1] 
 
Fig 1: Different domains of Internet of Things (Intel Solutions) 
 
 
Fig 2: Internet of Things Timeline 
      
 
          
Like the IoT, the Industrial IoT (IIoT) is the connection of 
devices over the Internet, but with a focus on the transfer, 
command and control of mission critical information and 
responses. The IIoT is used in fields – where reliability and 
accuracy are not optional. Industrial IoT enables machines to 
work better, fail less often and produce higher quality output. 
[2] Industry 4.0 was introduced in 2011 as a German 
government initiative dedicated to ensured competitiveness for 
the manufacturing industry. While both IoT and IIoT operate 
at a business level, Industry 4.0 remains a primarily 
government and academic-based movement.  
 
  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:48:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 Fourth International Conference on Computing Communication Control and Automation (ICCUBEA) 
.  
0 
 
 
Fig 3: Internet of Things, Industrial IoT, Industry 4. 
 
Today, IoT is able to extend intelligent computing and 
communication capabilities to everyday objects, such as 
traditional tools, sensors, cameras, cars, and appliances which 
are normally not considered as computing devices. Allowing 
these things to communicate and work with each other 
collaboratively to achieve common goals with minimal human 
intervention. These interconnected devices link our physical 
world to the digital world to make the life easier and smarter. 
The IoT is growing rapidly, it is expected that by 2025, the 
IoT will connect every object of our daily life to the digital 
world as stated by the US National Intelligence Council.  [1] 
 
 
 
II. INDUSTRY 4.0: CLUSTERS 
 
To bring industry 4.0 into a structure based model required for 
implementation and easy understanding it can be divided into 
following clusters:  
                            
                             
                              
A. Data acquisition and data processing 
Data acquisition and data processing are enablers for 
interaction between hardware based sensors and actuators to 
interact with the physical world. An additional middleware 
required here is cloud computing. This process can be initiated 
with objects being equipped with sensors, processing modules 
making that object into a smart object. Internet of things and 
services provides a bridge between connecting these smart 
objects with global internet. [3] 
All the data acquired from these sensors will be stored in big 
data platforms as database for analytical applications 
mentioned below. 
B. M2M communication 
One of the main aspects of Industry 4.0 is machine to machine 
communication. The concept behind M2M communication is 
to have intelligent machines and equipments with minimal 
human interaction. Based on the information available the 
production process can be changed autonomously according to 
the auto-production plan. The key structure required for M2M 
is vertical and horizontal integration as given below. [3] 
C. HMI 
The third cluster is human-machine interaction. The approach 
of human-machine interaction is based on the information 
sharing and collaboration between production machines and 
employees by interfaces like virtual reality and augmented 
reality. HMI solutions and applications are still under ongoing 
research and development for industrial practices. 
 
III. ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE AND IOT 
INTEGRATION 
During implementation of IoT it is very critical to understand 
how the industry is structured and how should it be integrated 
with different sectors. It is basically divided into three kinds of 
integration. These are horizontal integration through value 
networks to facilitate inter-corporation collaboration, vertical 
integration of hierarchical subsystems inside a manufacturing 
system and end to end connectivity across value chain to 
support connectivity 
A. Horizontal Integration: It is becoming increasingly 
necessary for every industry to have smooth and efficient 
co-operation and co-ordination with different corporations 
within an industry, which is called as inter-corporation. 
By inter-corporation horizontal integration, related 
corporations can form an efficient ecosystem, finance, 
information and material can flow among these 
corporations. The approach of horizontal integration 
specifies the global communication between machines or 
systems on the same level.  [4] This is also leading to 
emerging of new business models.  
B. Vertical Integration: It is essential to vertically integrate 
actuators and sensors, across different levels right up to 
the enterprise resource planning (ERP) level to enable a 
flexible and reconfigurable manufacturing system. Data 
from ERP system contain information about the 
production process parameters of every single product.  
The vertical integration connects machines and data on 
different levels. This mean it makes it possible for gapless 
data connection of machine process. A gapless vertical 
integration enables an individual one piece flow without 
manual changeovers. [4]By this integration, the smart 
machines form self-organized system that can be 
dynamically reconfigured to adapt to different product 
types, this massive information is collected and processed 
to make production process transparent.  
Human-machine 
interaction  
Machine to machine 
communication 
Data acquisition 
and Data 
processing 
Consumer 
Convenient, 
important 
communication 
devices 
 
Critical 
Mission critical 
communication for 
military, healthcare 
and energy 
Manufacturing 
Industrial Revolution 
for continued growth 
and encouraging 
competitiveness 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:48:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 Fourth International Conference on Computing Communication Control and Automation (ICCUBEA) 
 
C. End to End Integration: In a product centric value chain 
process, a chain of activities is involved such as customer 
requirement, product design and development, production 
planning, production engineering, production services, 
maintenance and recycle. By such a integration, a 
continuous and consistent value chain with a customized 
product are possible. 
 
 
 
Fig 4: Illustration of three kinds of integration and their relationship 
            
 
 
IV. FLOW OF IMPLEMENTATION 
 
 
  
Fig 5: A framework for data acquisition process 
First step is to connect all of the system with sensors and 
actuators to capture the data, this is called as data acquisition 
and then using big data and analytics the data acquired is 
processed. Then as we start analyzing and evaluating the data 
and with this information we can carry out the applications 
mentioned below. There are various platforms today which 
provide one stop cloud based IIoT solutions like Datonis®, 
Infinite Uptime, and ERIXISTM. These platforms let you 
securely connect and process IoT data at scale. It provides the 
ability to analyze and visualize this data in real-time, integrate 
IoT data into your business applications and rapidly make 
operational decisions that impact your business. 
 
Then next step is controlling the machines or system from any 
de-centralized place i.e. it should be possible to add/edit/delete 
a program and/or make any necessary changes on the machine 
or system according to our needs not from on ground (i.e. 
shop floor) but sitting at any place. And further this is to be 
expanded to where once we change a parameter on any one of 
the systems all other systems will modify themselves 
accordingly and be ready for the new process without any 
human intervention. This can be termed as machine to 
machine communication. 
 
We here can add a new sphere of human-machine interaction. 
This mainly consists of 2 parts virtual reality and augmented 
reality. It is still going under wide exploration of new 
possibilities and techniques as to how to implement and 
incorporate them into our existing systems. Presently, it can be 
used in ways like predictive maintenance being carried out 
using augmented reality and virtual reality. If we a take a 
tablet or a cell phone near our system, variety of different 
information could be obtained directly ranging from its 
performance efficiency, next maintenance required based on 
alert notifications received, the program it is currently caring 
out and possibility of changing any of the specifications as and 
when required from any place possible. 
 
 
 
V. BUSINESS POTENTIAL 
In country like India where manufacturing sector contributes 
almost 17.1% of its total GDP, we can boost this greatly by 
merging some its applications with our enormous IT sector. 
This is where Industry 4.0 plays a very major role in 
accordance with current initiatives of government like Make 
in India and Start-up India; IT Sector IoT based companies 
can provide wide number of different application based on end 
to end solutions in various sectors to areas like HR, Quality, 
Energy and Manufacturing Industries. The detail impact of 
each of these is explained in below section. 
 
 
 
VI. APPLICATIONS 
Today, we gather large amount of data at multiple points 
which is analyzed and communicated to remote technicians 
(or machines) and acted on in instant. So the possibilities are 
enormous and its applicability is wide ranged. 
 
A. Industry OEE (Overall Equipment Effectiveness) 
 
A concept introduced in  1982 by JIPM (Japanese Institute 
of Plant Maintenance), is a KPI in conjunction with lean 
manufacturing efforts to provide an indicator of success. One 
of the major goals of TPM is OEE and is calculated using six 
equipment losses identified within TPM. Its calculation 
requires equipment availability (breakdown and changeovers), 
productivity (minor stoppages and reduced speeds), and 
quality   (defects and setup scrap) data to arrive at a number 
that communicates with us how our equipment or production 
line is operating industries track the efficiency of their 
equipment by measuring Overall Equipment Effectiveness 
(OEE) which is a combination of machine availability, 
performance and quality. Production lines are composed of 
various machines that perform specialized tasks. These 
machines are usually not connected i.e. while critical 
parameters that govern the operation of a machine and the 
information that a machine produces about its own 
performance was always generated but never collected and 
analyzed.  
 
 
Physical 
Resources 
Terminals for 
supervision 
and control 
Cloud Industrial 
network 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:48:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 Fourth International Conference on Computing Communication Control and Automation (ICCUBEA) 
Table 1: TRADITIONAL METHOD FOR OEE CALCULATION 
 
Very often industries used and some still using manual 
methods to calculate OEE of a machine which resulted in the 
following issues such as 
1) The process was manual, time-consuming and costly. 
2) The process was carried out infrequently thus real data 
was not available. 
3) Data was inaccurate, outdated and prone to human errors 
4) There was an inability to react to efficiency trends in 
real-time due to lack of real-time machine data 
5) The lack of historical trends which meant that future 
throughput trends could not be predicted. 
IOT helps the manufacturer to identify & remedy such areas 
which are negatively impacting the overall OEE. 
 
 
Fig 6: Productivity Index (Overall equipment effectiveness) 
  
 
Fig 7: Dashboard on computer 
IOT helped in following ways for Improvement of OEE 
 
Improvement in Machine Utilization – By viewing details on 
how their machines are operating, down to the last seconds, 
customers can now plan their production and their 
maintenance schedules optimally. 
 
Visibility for Machine Downtime –tracking of machine 
downtime to the last seconds. By providing idle-time 
reasoning, which can lead to focus on the top reasons for 
reduced production on a daily basis and immediately correct 
them. 
 
True OEE Calculation – OEE is now being calculated 
automatically with no manual intervention. This forms a 
benchmark for any process improvement initiatives on the 
assembly line. Line owners can directly view the impact of an 
initiative and take a decision. 
 
Similarly it is possible to get losses reports, cycle time report 
and live line utilization report. 
 
IoT provides following benefits: 
 
1) Plug-and-play OEE solution 
2) Automated pattern recognition to identify setup, 
downtime and production states 
3) Automated productivity estimation without human 
intervention 
4) No data manipulation, let the machine speak directly 
5) Going paperless 
 
B. IoT  impact on Lean Management  
Lean manufacturing first implemented by Toyota Motor 
Corporation is a set of methods and tools with a management 
philosophy to increase productivity and decrease 
manufacturing cost by eliminating wastes (MUDA).  [5] 
Today, in India majority of industrial companies follow Lean 
manufacturing principles. So an overview of how these lean 
principles might be impacted when it meets with IoT which is 
coming up so rapidly is explored. To support this concept of 
an IoT with lean an impact matrix is created where elements 
of Lean are considered with Industry 4.0 technologies and 
gives an estimation first impact.   
 
       Table 2: IMPACT MATRIX BETWEEN LEAN AND INDUSTRY 4.0 
 
Data acquisition and processing 
Sensors 
and 
Actuators 
Cloud 
Computing 
Big 
Data 
Analytics 
5s 1 1 1 1 
Kaizen 1 1 2 3 
Just in 
Time 
2 2 2 3 
Takt time 1 1 1 3 
Waste 
Reduction 
1 1 2 3 
UNIT Cumm. % Cumm. %
Std cycle time Sec. 7.80 7.82
Total day production Nos. 201918 226488
Rejection Nos. 475 836
OK Production Nos. 201443 225652
Total Equipment failure loss Hrs. 6.50 1.2 7.50 1.3
Total Set up / Adjustment loss Hrs. 44.75 8.0 44.50 7.7
Total Tool change loss Hrs. 15.75 2.8 23.75 4.1
Total Start up loss Hrs. 0.50 0.1 0.50 0.1
Total Minor stoppages 6.75 1.2 0.75 0.1
Total Shutdown loss Hrs. 12.00 2.1 19.25 3.2
Total Management loss Hrs. 1.00 0.2 1.00 0.2
Total logistics loss Hrs. 0.00 0.0 0.75 0.1
Total Measure & adjustment loss Hrs. 18.50 3.3 20.75 3.6
Total Die / Jig / Tool loss Hrs. 48.25 8.59305 31.5 5.45691
 DOWN TIME Hrs. 143.046 25.4756 132.849 23.014
Total available time Hrs. 573.50 596.50
Net available time Hrs. 561.50 577.25
UPTIME Hrs. 418.45 444.40
 % UTILIZATION % 74.52 76.99
ACTUAL CYCLE TIME Sec. 7.63 7.27
% PRODUCTION EFFICIENCY % 102.28 107.49
RATE OF QUALITY % 99.76 99.63
O E E % 76.04 82.44
Month:- Dec 2017
Losses report
630T1 630T2
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:48:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 Fourth International Conference on Computing Communication Control and Automation (ICCUBEA) 
 
The valuation is based as ‘1’ being estimated low impact and 
‘3’ being highest estimated impact.  
For example, Analytics have maximum impact on Kaizens as 
various algorithms can be used to find the best possible 
solutions whereas sensors and actuators having no significant 
on Kaizen as it will help only in collecting the data. Similarly 
for Just in Time data collection is very important aspect hence 
the use on sensors which is faster and accurate way and will 
impact more. 
This is estimate of the positive impact it can have some of the 
common lean principles as it is still in implementation stage. 
M2M communication and HMI will also have an impact to a 
large extent on these principles which is to be gauged as we 
move along with implementation. This impact matrix will 
support the developmental decisions during initial phase. 
 
C. Condition based Monitoring & Mistake Proofing  
Industry 4.0 solutions can provide optimum support for 
condition based monitoring in industry. Condition based 
monitoring involves continuous monitoring of machine data to 
detect wear, making it easier to schedule repairs and thus 
reduce downtime. There is also potential to lower maintenance 
costs as only worn-out parts need replacing. For example 
spindles in a milling machine are prone to breakage during the 
process. And repairing these can be very expensive. This is 
where sensors like (vibration sensors) can be used to identify 
the working conditions of spindle like spindle speed and 
tension and its relevant alert settings can be preset. The 
sensors generate data which is then compared to the 
information from the machine and the specific workpiece 
being processed. By analyzing this data in real time, it is 
possible to constantly keep in check and predict in advance the 
actual occurrence of the failures as there are multiple signs 
and trends that the component shows ‘symptoms’ of imminent 
failure or high degradation in performance. [6] Early 
identification of underperformance and prediction of failure 
can help O&M teams resolve these issues quickly, increase 
generation and  spindle life. This will also lead to develop 
better inventor management, optimize spares and reduce 
replacement costs.  
Maintenance professionals can benefit in a lot of ways from 
these new technologies: their work schedules become targeted 
and more effective, machine downtimes and repair times 
decrease, and the production flow can be continuously 
improved. [7] 
 
 Mistake Proofing using Alarm system 
After analysis and visualizing, these measured values alerts 
can be used to notify the employees via a sms or Email as 
soon as there are first a sign of breach in the set tolerance 
limits.  These alerts are first indicators of failures and studying 
the frequency of alerts and correlation between alerts can give 
first level indication of issues in a system. If alert notifications 
become frequent it is an indication of thorough diagnosis of 
the system to pinpoint the possible reason for this failure.  [6] 
 This can further be extrapolated into an shop floor alarm 
system, where PlCs are programmed to generate an alarm 
when any sensor value captured is outside of the tolerance that 
have been preset for that sensor or when the frequency of 
number of alerts goes beyond a certain limit. This addresses 
the very two important aspects  
1) proactive maintenance 
2) safety point of view in some extreme conditions  
 
D. Incentive scheme in HR Management  
Providing incentives to employees to encourage them to work 
harder or more efficiently can be a difficult issue, especially 
for small businesses Incentive packages should reward 
employees without affecting the company’s ability to attract 
and retain top talent, and without causing additional tax 
burdens on employees or the company. 
Current ways of incentive scheme 
1) Employees receive a set percentage of the company 
earnings.  
2) Frequent small rewards to show your manufacturing 
employees that their work is valued on a day-to-day 
basis. Institute a program that rewards employees for 
meeting weekly goals, such as producing a certain 
number of units, or for demonstrating key company 
values. Rewards can be small, such as a thank you 
note and a gift certificate to a local store. 
3) Target incentives programs to all employees, not only 
management or employees who are your best 
performers. One way to do this is by setting personal 
goals for each employee and basing rewards on 
whether the employee meets or exceeds these 
individual goals and etc. 
All these are done manually and after some target 
achievements and etc. 
A new concept is introduced for incentives where we are 
monitoring all the data of productivity, OEE and also 
condition-based monitoring system (CBM). Based on this link 
between OEE and CBM a formula is derived. This formula is 
used to evaluate the performance of the worker on point basis. 
It not only takes into account the number of jobs the worker 
processes but also considers the machine maintenance during 
that specific activity period, points are added when the the 
production is achieved considering the maintained machine 
condition, and  highest point achieving team will get the 
incentive based on the grading system. This gives a very 
holistic approach to evaluate the worker and give targeted 
incentives. 
 
E. Quality Analysis using Statistical Process Control  
A time series data follows something called a normal 
distribution in statistics and is represented by the famed bell-
shaped curve. In such a case, there is a process control 
technique called the control chart which allows you to 
calculate the upper and lower control limits of the temperature 
based on the variation in the process.  Considering an 
Example of Temprature control for a factory or any cold chain 
truck, if the temperature control system is good, meaning the 
variation is less, the upper and the lower control limits will 
actually be within the specified limits of 15⁰ and 20⁰ 
centigrade thus narrowing the band from 5⁰C to say 4⁰C.  
Based on these control limits we may now set your analytics 
program to alert you based on certain rules so that you may 
ensure the regulation of the temperature back to the specified 
range if an anomaly occurs. A rule can say that as soon as the 
recorded temperature breaches the upper or the lower control 
limit an alert is generated. Or it may say that, generate alert 
only if three consecutive readings breach a limit   
A rule may also be set that if more than, say, five consecutive 
readings are above or below the mean line (17.5⁰C) an alert is 
sent, even though the values are within the control limits. The 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:48:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2018 Fourth International Conference on Computing Communication Control and Automation (ICCUBEA) 
interpretation is that since the mean has shifted there is a 
likelihood of the temperature breaching the upper or lower 
limit depending on which side the mean has shifted.  
 Similarly, there can also be a trend rule, where, if several 
readings display a trend that the temperature is moving 
upwards or downwards an alert be generated, even though the 
values maybe within the control limits. Here also the 
interpretation is that since the temperature is moving upwards 
or downwards it is likely that it will breach the limits. For 
such, IOT can be used to maintain and controlling the temp. 
  
 
F. Forcasting in Energy Sector  
In energy sector, we can leverage the data we get further by 
processing and using it to forecast, develop strategy for 
allocation of maintenance budget, valuation & other financial 
strategies relating to the asset. For example helping the grid 
operators manage the grid properly. Operator can feed  in 
wind speed for past few hours as captured by met masts into 
the system which will process it by comparing it  with existing 
records and with the help of the power curve it can forecast 
power generation for next couple of hours. This is will greatly 
help operators to manage load demands and to have te 
mximum possible power from clean energy on the grid. [6] 
 
 
Fig 8: Wind turbine power curve 
 
 
VII. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSION 
Industry 4.0, driven by IoT (Internet of Things) is gaining 
huge traction in manufacturing industry. It has changed the 
way how communication happens and this has greatly altered 
the level of automation in industries. The physical world in 
manufacturing plants and digital world are rapidly getting 
interconnected like never before with machines 
communicating with each other and with their users in an 
unprecedented way. Data generated from these interconnected 
is huge and applicability is wide ranged and the focal areas 
being that of productivity and efficiency. 
 It is closer to being implemented than otherwise believed. 
Most of the necessary technological advances needed for it 
have already been made, and some manufacturers and 
agencies have already begun implementing a small-scale 
version of it. The main reasons why it has still not being 
implemented in its true form is because the industries are still 
gauging the impact it will have on  the legal, ethical, security 
and social fields. 
 
 
 
 
VIII. FUTURE SCOPE 
The biggest problem with so much data is its security. 
Workers could potentially abuse it; hackers could potentially 
access it, and there will complete absence of privacy. For 
these reasons, the Internet of Things is very well pushed back 
longer than it truly needs to be. Conventional security and 
privacy approaches tend to be inapplicable for IoT, mainly due 
to its decentralized nature and the resource-constraints of the 
majority of its devices. Blockchain can be used here to 
provide security and privacy in IoT networks.  The Blockchain 
here will be different in a way that it will not be a Bitocin 
Blockchain whose management is decentralized but rather a 
local Blockchain which is centrally managed by owner. The 
owner will be responsible for adding new devices by creating 
new transactions and can also remove devices by deleting 
existing ledgers.  [8] 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1]  Q. I. Sarhan, Internet of things: a survey of challenges and issues, Duhok, 
Kurdistan Region, Kurdistan Region: Int. J. Internet of Things and 
Cyber-Assurance, 2016.  
[2]  V. Nathan, "Smart Manuractruing Report," Altizon Systems, Pune, 2017. 
[3]  C. H. Tobais Wagner, "Industry 4.0 impacts on lean production systems," 
in The 50th CIRP Conference on Manufracturing systems, 2017.  
[4]  D. L. J. W. A. Z. Shiyong Wang, Implementing stmart factory of 
Industrie 4.0: An Outlook, Guangzhou: Industrial Product Review, 2017.  
[5]  C. E. J. W. Adam Sanders, "Industry 4.0 Implies Lean Manufacturing: 
Research Activities in Idustry 4.0 Function as enabler for Lean 
Manufracturing," Journal of Industrial Engineering and Management, p. 
23, 2016.  
[6]  Algo Engines, "DATA ANALYTICS FOR WIND FARM 
PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT," [Online]. Available: 
http://algoengines.com/wind/. [Accessed February 2018]. 
[7]  M. KÖHLER, "Bosch," 15 February 2018. [Online]. Available: 
https://blog.bosch-si.com/industry40/industry-4-0-condition-monitoring-
use-cases-in-detail/. [Accessed March 2018]. 
[8]  S. S. K. R. J. Ali Dorri, "Blockchain in internet of things: Challenges and 
Solutions," arXiv:1608.05187/ Cornell University Library, p. 13, 2016.  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:48:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.