A Design Concept for a Tourism Recommender System for Regional Development
Citation: Gamidullaeva, L.; Finogeev,
A.; Kataev, M.; Bulysheva, L. A
Design Concept for a Tourism
Recommender System for Regional
Development. Algorithms 2023, 16, 58.
https://doi.org/10.3390/a16010058
Academic Editor: Constantin
Paleologu
Received: 22 October 2022
Revised: 10 January 2023
Accepted: 12 January 2023
Published: 16 January 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
algorithms
Article
A Design Concept for a Tourism Recommender System for
Regional Development
Leyla Gamidullaeva 1,* , Alexey Finogeev 2, Mikhail Kataev 3 and Larisa Bulysheva 4
1 Department of Marketing, Commerce and Service, Penza State University, Krasnaya st., 40,
Penza 440026, Russia
2 CAD Department, Penza State University, Krasnaya st., 40, Penza 440026, Russia
3 Department of Radioelectronic Technologies and Environmental Monitoring, Tomsk State University of
Control Systems and Radioelectronics, Tomsk 634034, Russia
4 Information Technology and Decision Sciences Department, Old Dominion University,
Norfolk, VA 23529, USA
* Correspondence: gamidullaeva@gmail.com
Abstract: Despite of tourism infrastructure and software, the development of tourism is hampered
due to the lack of information support, which encapsulates various aspects of travel implementation.
This paper highlights a demand for integrating various approaches and methods to develop a
universal tourism information recommender system when building individual tourist routes. The
study objective is proposing a concept of a universal information recommender system for building a
personalized tourist route. The developed design concept for such a system involves a procedure for
data collection and preparation for tourism product synthesis; a methodology for tourism product
formation according to user preferences; the main stages of this methodology implementation. To
collect and store information from real travelers, this paper proposes to use elements of blockchain
technology in order to ensure information security. A model that specifies the key elements of a
tourist route planning process is presented. This article can serve as a reference and knowledge base
for digital business system analysts, system designers, and digital tourism business implementers for
better digital business system design and implementation in the tourism sector.
Keywords: tourism industry; regional development; tourism product; tourist route; information
recommender system; blockchain; digital avatar; traveling salesman problem
1. Introduction
Tourism is one of the most noticeable elements of international trade in the non-
commodity sector of the economy. According to the World Tourism Organization, it is the
third-largest export category in the world export, being the top export product for most
developed countries. Tourism is one of the industries having the highest multiplier effect
on the economy. Investments in the tourism industry form the added value in transport,
trade and services, construction and production of building materials, and other types
of economic activity. An important socio-economic effect of tourism development on the
population involved in the creation and provision of services is the growth of employment
and incomes, and the formation of entrepreneurial culture [1].
The tourism industry has undergone dramatic changes since various forms of infor-
mation and communication technologies (ICT) began to penetrate the society, industry,
and markets. Modern world trends in the tourism industry are related to the moderniza-
tion and development of user interfaces along with the digitalization of promotion tools;
creating communities in social media and services having information and educational
content; integration of domestic tourism products into communication (navigation and
cartographic) services, and voice assistants; promotion of tourism products using strategies
based on technologies for studying and predicting consumer preferences, etc. [2].
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58. https://doi.org/10.3390/a16010058 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/algorithms
https://doi.org/10.3390/a16010058
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/algorithms
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3042-7550
https://doi.org/10.3390/a16010058
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/algorithms
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/a16010058?type=check_update&version=3
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 2 of 19
The Tourism Development Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2035 [1] highlights
such major digital solutions as introduction and development of big data technologies and
artificial intelligence (AI) for data collection and analysis; development of a system for
the promotion of tourist services; formation of the best travel offers, taking into account
tourist wishes, weather conditions, traffic situation, etc.; development of online services
for tourist route planning along with buying tickets and booking hotels. Applying big
data analytics (behavioral models, information on current events and world news, tourist
preferences, meteorological data, etc.) allows building tourist routes, analyzing their
economic efficiency, etc.
Tourism development requires an appropriate infrastructure and, accordingly, soft-
ware to figure out common travel challenges. It should be noted that, despite of tourism
infrastructure and software, the development of tourism is hampered due to the lack of
information support, which encapsulates various aspects of travel implementation.
It is advisable that an application should contain necessary preferable tourist informa-
tion on movement, hotels, routes, attractions, etc. The application should find out the trip
features and recommend a tourist the best options for activities.
The current ICT development features the Internet as a means of communication
between the global population and various organizational structures (airlines, hotels,
shops, etc.). There are different types of tourist traveling (individual, mass, and special-
ized) to be taken into account. Each of these can be pedestrian, automobile, water and
consider tourist health status, financial capabilities, etc. In such a variety of choices, special
features of tourist routes, considering semi-structured (sometimes conflicting) travel re-
quests, should be kept in view. In this regard, travel companies should actively participate
in the development of route recognition and competitiveness with the world’s leading
tourist routes.
Thus, the authors can conclude that it is necessary to develop a universal software and
a recommender system to promote design and implementation of individual tourist routes.
The present study is aimed at solving this issue.
A recommender system (RS) in tourism is an intelligent computer system that provides
valuable suggestions and serves as a tool for planning a tourist trip [3–5]. Basically, a RS is
a mechanism that filters information for the end users they are interested in. Personalized
data search and discovery applications that help users identify and select useful items and
information are at the core of the recommender process [6]. These systems display most
relevant information to the end users based on their personal profiles provided initially,
taking into account the behavior of other similar users. In this way, a RS is like a filter that
adjusts the information available on the Internet regarding the interests and preferences of
the end users.
The complexity of developing such software is due to a variety of formal models that
describe movement, accommodation, routes, attractions, taking into account time, cost,
sequence of visits, etc. Any tourist should be able to consider expert assessments necessary
for thinking through and clearly defining each route element.
In our opinion, when developing a RS in the field of travel and tourism, it is essential
to consider the recommendation context, a group of users to receive a joint benefit from the
recommended elements, and temporal relationship between the latter.
Furthermore, traditional recommender systems satisfy the needs of tourists only by
studying a limited number of factors. However, there are numerous determinants, such as
environmental factors, actual geographic coordinates, travel destinations, user preferences,
etc. to be taken into account when building individual travel routes in order to provide
travelers with a reliable recommendation. The existing recommender systems offer tourists
to choose the most suitable transport, accommodation, destinations, places of special in-
terest, and other attributes necessary for the trip. However, it has always been about the
introduction of information technologies into individual business processes of tourism and
hospitality industry enterprises in the arrangement of particular implementation stages
of the tourist route. It should be recognized that such business processes as booking sys-
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 3 of 19
tems, e-commerce, mobile applications, image recognition systems, big data processing,
etc. have already been rebuilt in the sphere of tourism and hospitality industry having a
significant impact on the competitiveness of tourist destinations and other tourism market
entities [7–12]. It is noteworthy that modern technologies allow integrating business pro-
cesses at various levels of economic system functioning [12–14]. When building individual
tourist routes, a synthesis of various approaches and methods is required to develop a
universal tourism information recommender system.
This paper is an advancement of research works on the development of recommender
systems and fundamentals of business process management [8,9]. The study objective is
proposing a concept of a universal information recommender system for building a person-
alized tourist route. The concept includes an original authorial DLT-based methodology
for tourism product synthesis in order to consistently form a digital tourist avatar being
a cyberphysical system. The end result of the recommendation service is the synthesis of
alternative TPs with the recommendation of the optimal route, followed by navigation sup-
port for the traveler to adjust the route, taking into account the current situation, associated
costs, user wishes, as well as to save notes and reviews of the traveler about points on the
route for accumulating experience, analysis, and synthesis of other tourism products. Each
product synthesized and mastered during the journey is stored in a hierarchical database
synthesized in the form of a distributed ledger (blockchain) and hashed for unique identifi-
cation in order to protect against unauthorized access and compromise. This is necessary
because in modern travel services, booking services, ratings, etc. predominantly positive
reviews are written by managers of tourist facilities, hired bloggers, or bots. At the same
time, negative reviews and descriptions are deleted since access to them is determined
by system administrators of information services of tourist sites. That is why, in order to
collect and store information from real travelers, this paper proposes using elements of
blockchain technology to ensure information security.
This work is organized as follows: In Section 2, related works on recommender system
in the tourism context are presented. The section concludes with a gap analysis and an
explanation of how our work addresses these noted gaps. Then, our research conceptual
framework is described in Section 3, including problem statement and content criteria
used as parameters of a tourism product. Data collection and preparation for tourism
product synthesis is also presented here. In Section 4, the authors develop a methodology
for tourism product formation. Drawing on these results, the authors further propose
a blockchain-based tourism product representation. Finally, the results are discussed in
Section 5 to highlight the implications, opportunities for future research, recommendations
and limitations of our work.
2. Literature Review
There are numerous studies devoted to the development of recommender systems
in tourism employed in various domains, suggesting different types of items involving
activities that are experienced by movies, restaurants, travel destinations, etc. [10,11]. Re-
searchers provide different approaches: hybrid recommendation approach [12], approach
based on collaboration and text analysis [13], agent-based personalized approach [14], etc.
However, various AI techniques are currently used to solve the problem of reliability for
tourist recommendations [15,16]. Bedi, et al. propose using reputation-based collabora-
tive filtering algorithm that augments reputation to existing collaborative approach for
generating relevant recommendation in tourism domain.
Intelligent agents are able to analyze user behavior, learn user profile automatically,
and provide proactive recommendations depending on the current context [14].
Some systems go beyond the list of recommended tourist attractions and use automatic
planners to schedule recommendations within a route that can last several days [17,18].
Other approaches take into account the opening and closing times of attractions, or the
time required to get from one point to another, and offer a detailed schedule and route plan
based on that. However, such planning is very complicated with unguaranteed optimal
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 4 of 19
solution. Some systems solve this problem using such AI-based optimization techniques as
ant colony and metaheuristic approach, or iterative methods [19].
Baltrunas et al. [20] outline a recommender system for tourist points of interest (POI)
considering 14 contextual factors that account for the travel time, weather conditions, the
user mood, or the type of group that accompanies the traveler. In this case, each factor
is endowed with a finite set of possible values. Massimo and Ricci [21] present a novel
approach to recommendations that helps tourists to choose key POI. The authors consider
situations when there are few users (POI visitors) and no additional information about
users, other than their past experience of visited POI, is available. User behavior is first
modeled by grouping users with identical visit trajectories and then by learning a common
user behavior pattern similar for everyone. In the research [22], instead of using POI, the
authors propose to leverage the POI category to better investigate the user’s interests. They
offer a point-of-interest (POI) category recommendation model based on group preferences
and indicate that the PPCM has improved recommendation performance compared to
other models.
Automatic clustering algorithms can be used to categorize tourists with similar prefer-
ences or characteristics [23].
Methods of approximate reasoning such as fuzzy logic or Bayesian networks can be
used to drive fuzzy data associated with user preference inference [24–27]. Liu, et al. [28] ar-
gue that the recurrent neural network-based approaches ignore the high-order relationship
between users and POIs. They propose a novel approach for successive POI recommenda-
tion with an improved graph convolution network for learning the dynamic representation
of users and POIs.
An example of work in the field of application of industrial information integration
methods for solving transport problems is the article [29], which considers the problem
of optimizing vehicle routes in order to reduce energy consumption and environmental
pollution. A model for multi-purpose optimization of multiple routes using an elitist
genetic sorting algorithm without dominance is proposed to minimize the cost and time
spent in the process of vehicle movement, as well as to reduce carbon emissions. The final
route is selected in the decision-making process according to the method of gray relational
analysis and based on the assessment of the value of information entropy. The authors of
another article [30] propose a two-stage hybrid algorithm for solving the problem of vehicle
routing in order to optimize logistics and planning. The paper [31] proposes a multicriteria
model for optimizing movement between a set of points to minimize the total number of
routes, travel costs, and reduce the number of long routes. A multi-purpose optimal model
of vehicle routes with minimum total cost, carbon emissions, and a minimum probability
of an accident risk, taking into account environmental factors, is also proposed in [32].
Most IoT systems transmit data streams from sensor nodes through routers to cloud
servers, which cause problems with the confidentiality and integrity of information when
transmitted through public communication channels, processed on cloud servers of third-
party providers, etc. Blockchain technologies allow solving these problems.
Here is the list of existing software products used in tourism.
The YouRoute [33] program contains places, route maps, descriptions and photos
of attractions, information about hotels, car rentals, and flights. The program users can
save the routes in their personal accounts and recommend them in the public domain.
Despite numerous advantages of the program, there are some drawbacks associated with
the inability to set the method of movement along the route (on foot, plane, car, etc.) to
provide a detailed description of the route. The SygicMaps [34] program is a web-based
mapping service that presents a selection of attractions, hotels, and travel routes, and
describes the route traveled. The ClassTravel [35] application presents the possibilities to
buy tickets for various types of transport, or to book hotels, and gives a detailed description
of shopping spots. The Maps.Me [36] application provides offline maps to plan a route
around cities with indicated streets, house numbers, transport, shops, attractions, etc.
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 5 of 19
As a rule, these software programs and applications offer visual description of var-
ious places and show the route traveled or planned. Some applications provide more
advanced visualization of tourist POI, and the Krpano [37] software for showing all kinds
of panoramic and virtual 3D images of premises and POI on the web as an example. The
Spherika [38] program allows creating virtual tours and combining spherical panoramas
with various transition functions.
Unfortunately, all applications used for travel planning have limitations concerning
functionality of the route builder: building a route either comes down to connecting POI
with straight lines on the map, or the builder does not take into account all means of
transportation and the user personal preferences.
There are several web mapping applications on the market: Yandex Maps [39];
2GIS [40]; Google Maps [41]; Wikimapia [42]. All maps are approximately the same in terms
of functionality and allow showing the city, POI, transport, or building a route. But they
sometimes are unable to provide feedback in the form of images that are geographically
linked to certain places.
Considering the individual characteristics and capabilities of tourists, as well as
vaguely formulated, vague or conflicting requests of different tourists in groups leads to a
large variety and number of TPs, especially when it is necessary to take into account the
different requests of members of the tourist group, which should also be taken into account
when modeling business processes. The most well and fully developed in this regard are
the models of tourism business processes that are used in travel agencies and tour operators
to develop the attractiveness of TP for travelers and increase their competitiveness. The
business process models of users who prefer to independently plan and select their own
TP without contacting specialists are often implemented based on their own experience or
the experience of other tourists, information about which is retrieved from the Internet and
is often unverified, subjective, or false.
Thus, the creation of a universal application free from the identified shortcomings is
an urgent task.
3. Conceptual Framework
Designing a tourism product requires a comprehension of its key parameters. In this
regard, a tourism product is understood as a detailed tourist route formed by an intelligent
system in an interactive mode based on data mining and a matrix for traveler preferences,
data for the synthesis of new tourism products, and data on previously formed products of
other tourists.
In particular, the following criteria are used as parameters of a tourism product:
(a) Type of tourism product (recreational; medical; business; sports; gastronomic;
wildlife; wine; beach; ethnographic; religious; pilgrimage; transit; educational; children’s;
military–patriotic);
(b) Mode of transportation (transport; walking):
- Type of transport: personal transport (car, motorcycle, bicycle, electric transport, etc.),
public transport (air, rail, road, water-motor ships, cruise ships, ferries, yachts, boats);
(c) Traveler characteristics:
- Identification data (passport, birth certificate, residential address and registration,
telephone, e-mail);
- Financial data (bank card, account);
- Personal data (age, weight, gender, presence of physical limitations);
- Data on accompanying persons (number of adults and children, identification, and
personal data);
(d) Preferred tourist route characteristics:
- Travel territory (country, region, city, locality);
- Spatial and temporal characteristics of the trip (place of departure and arrival, start/end
time, number of stops (overnights) on the route, etc.);
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 6 of 19
- Approximate number of tourist sites (key points of the route selected on the map) to
be visited for the entire time and per day;
- Average time of visiting a tourist site (depending on the choice of the type of excursion
service or without it): up to 30 min; 30–60 min; 60–90 min; 90 min and over;
- Attraction fees for one visit;
- Remoteness of tourist sites from places to stop (overnight stays) depending on the
type of product (e.g., for city excursions—-a distance from the center, from the tourist
(historical) center, pedestrian streets, museums, attractions, etc.; for out-of-town
excursions—-a distance from stops (roads) to POI (for backpackers and tourists with
transport); for beach tourism—-a distance from water resources; for gastronomic and
wine tourism—-a distance from exclusive dining destinations, etc.);
(e) Characteristics of accommodation places (stops, overnight stays):
- Type of accommodation: city inn (hotel); resort hotel; sanatorium; rest house; recre-
ation center; boarding house; apart-hotel; motel; hostel; country hotel; tourist base,
recreation center [43]; apartment; flat; guest house; room; house; cottage; villa;
- Cost of living (a single person or a room) per day;
- Availability of basic services (parking, Internet, kitchen, shops and cafes within walk-
ing distance, number of beds, toilet, and bathroom, etc.);
(f) Preferred food characteristics:
- Type of preferred dining destination (restaurants, bars, canteens, cafes, snack bars) [44];
- Type of meals at the place of residence (breakfast, half board, full board, all inclusive,
ultra all inclusive, self-catering);
- Cost of one meal check (up to 500 rubles, up to 1000 rubles, up to 1500 rubles, etc. or
average food expenditures per day) (Figure 1).
Algorithms 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 7 of 21 
 
 
Figure 1. Parameters of a tourism product. 
Data Collection and Preparation for Tourism Product Synthesis 
A synthesized detailed tourism product incorporates start/end time and place of the 
trip; a mapped route track indicating numerous key points (attractions, places of stops, 
parking, overnight stays, meals, excursions, etc.,) with geospatial tags; time lags between 
the key points of the movement track; cost parameters of movement (transport tickets, 
fuel) and visits to key points (entry, excursion service); tourist information (personal, iden-
tification, financial, etc.,). In particular, personal data of travelers, such as age and weight, 
are necessary to determine the length of the route and the average speed of movement, 
taking into account physical restrictions when visiting certain places. Spatial data and 
time lags are needed to specify movement logistics, select the type of transport, purchase 
tickets, etc., due to faraway attractions. 
First and foremost, detailed information about the key points of the selected or syn-
thesized tourist route (sights, places of stops, overnight stays, meals, gas stations, etc.,) is 
required for the users. Therefore, a major issue is to integrate the developed system with 
well-known services, and to collect and consolidate open data sources on the Internet. 
Since the existing systems do not provide direct access to the collected data, integration 
therewith is performed through links for using third-party services (booking, financial 
settlements, movement monitoring, ticket purchases, etc.,). It should be noted that the use 
of third-party services may cause additional financial costs. 
However, there is a lot of free data on the key places of the tourist route to be obtained 
from open sources on the Internet. Tourists also need real travel reviews providing latest 
(within several months) information about the route and key points when forming or 
choosing a tourism product. Therefore, another challenge is to search for and collect up-
to-date information from different sources with its initial consolidation in the repository, 
subsequent monthly updating, and deletion of obsolete data. It is especially important to 
Figure 1. Parameters of a tourism product.
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 7 of 19
Data Collection and Preparation for Tourism Product Synthesis
A synthesized detailed tourism product incorporates start/end time and place of the
trip; a mapped route track indicating numerous key points (attractions, places of stops,
parking, overnight stays, meals, excursions, etc.) with geospatial tags; time lags between the
key points of the movement track; cost parameters of movement (transport tickets, fuel) and
visits to key points (entry, excursion service); tourist information (personal, identification,
financial, etc.). In particular, personal data of travelers, such as age and weight, are
necessary to determine the length of the route and the average speed of movement, taking
into account physical restrictions when visiting certain places. Spatial data and time lags
are needed to specify movement logistics, select the type of transport, purchase tickets, etc.
due to faraway attractions.
First and foremost, detailed information about the key points of the selected or syn-
thesized tourist route (sights, places of stops, overnight stays, meals, gas stations, etc.) is
required for the users. Therefore, a major issue is to integrate the developed system with
well-known services, and to collect and consolidate open data sources on the Internet. Since
the existing systems do not provide direct access to the collected data, integration therewith
is performed through links for using third-party services (booking, financial settlements,
movement monitoring, ticket purchases, etc.). It should be noted that the use of third-party
services may cause additional financial costs.
However, there is a lot of free data on the key places of the tourist route to be obtained
from open sources on the Internet. Tourists also need real travel reviews providing latest
(within several months) information about the route and key points when forming or choos-
ing a tourism product. Therefore, another challenge is to search for and collect up-to-date
information from different sources with its initial consolidation in the repository, subse-
quent monthly updating, and deletion of obsolete data. It is especially important to update
information about the state of roads, the quality of service at places of stops, overnight
stays and meals, the state and fees of visiting attractions, prices for excursions, etc.
Generally, information about the key points of the tourist route is presented in a
variety of sources; therefore, it is necessary to remove duplicates and consolidate data in
the process of collecting thereof. While accumulating traveler reviews, greater focus should
be paid on negative reviews containing much more useful information. Moreover, too
many positive reviews without comments lack true and necessary information as they are
often written by interested parties.
To consolidate and check for duplicates, information about waypoints retrieved by
crawlers is converted into keyword vector models [45,46]. The implemented synthesis
of vector models is based on the modified Word2Vec algorithm with the calculation of
the sampled logistic loss function in the process of predicting and optimizing the learn-
ing model [47]. Geospatial labels are used to compare vector representations of point
descriptions. To compare information by the degree of updating, timestamps of extracted
descriptions on source sites are used.
4. Results
4.1. Methodology for Tourism Product Formation Based on User Preferences
The methodology for the formation and recommendation of tourism products to end
users is presented in the form of a number of major stages, which, in turn, are a sequence
of algorithmic steps implemented in the form of client and server components of a digital
tourism recommender ecosystem. The first two stages are the collection of data on the key
points of possible tourism products and the collection of data on the tourism preferences
of users, including their personal data. Both steps are performed in parallel by different
applications (Figure 2).
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 8 of 19
Algorithms 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 21 
 
update information about the state of roads, the quality of service at places of stops, over-
night stays and meals, the state and fees of visiting attractions, prices for excursions, etc. 
Generally, information about the key points of the tourist route is presented in a va-
riety of sources; therefore, it is necessary to remove duplicates and consolidate data in the 
process of collecting thereof. While accumulating traveler reviews, greater focus should 
be paid on negative reviews containing much more useful information. Moreover, too 
many positive reviews without comments lack true and necessary information as they are 
often written by interested parties. 
To consolidate and check for duplicates, information about waypoints retrieved by 
crawlers is converted into keyword vector models [45,46]. The implemented synthesis of 
vector models is based on the modified Word2Vec algorithm with the calculation of the 
sampled logistic loss function in the process of predicting and optimizing the learning 
model [47]. Geospatial labels are used to compare vector representations of point descrip-
tions. To compare information by the degree of updating, timestamps of extracted de-
scriptions on source sites are used.  
4. Results 
4.1. Methodology for Tourism Product Formation Based on User Preferences 
The methodology for the formation and recommendation of tourism products to end 
users is presented in the form of a number of major stages, which, in turn, are a sequence 
of algorithmic steps implemented in the form of client and server components of a digital 
tourism recommender ecosystem. The first two stages are the collection of data on the key 
points of possible tourism products and the collection of data on the tourism preferences 
of users, including their personal data. Both steps are performed in parallel by different 
applications (Figure 2). 
 
Figure 2. Generalized algorithm for developing an individual tourism product. 
At the same time, the information received earlier should be periodically updated to 
update the data, both about key points and about the user and his changing capabilities 
and preferences. 
(A) The first stage is the collection, cleaning, and consolidation of big data on the 
possible components of future tourism products. 
The components of a detailed tourism product are: 
(a) Spatial and temporal parameters of the start and end points of routes. Retrospective 
and predicted weather data specific to the spatial and temporal parameters of the 
routes. 
(b) Sets of key points of the future route, including the coordinates of tourist attractions, 
the coordinates of places of possible stops (parking lots), the coordinates of public 
catering places, the coordinates of places for boarding public transport (airports, rail-
way stations and bus stations, places for ordering transfers, car rentals, carsharing, 
etc.,), coordinates of places of accommodation for tourists, tourist and information 
centers, etc. 
Collection, cleaning 
and consolidation of 
big data on the 
possible components 
of future tourism 
products
Collection, cleaning and 
consolidation of the 
personal information of 
the tourist and data 
about his preferences 
and opportunities.
Synthesis and 
clustering of 
tourism products.
Figure 2. Generalized algorithm for developing an individual tourism product.
At the same time, the information received earlier should be periodically updated to
update the data, both about key points and about the user and his changing capabilities
and preferences.
(A) The first stage is the collection, cleaning, and consolidation of big data on the
possible components of future tourism products.
The components of a detailed tourism product are:
(a) Spatial and temporal parameters of the start and end points of routes. Retrospec-
tive and predicted weather data specific to the spatial and temporal parameters of
the routes.
(b) Sets of key points of the future route, including the coordinates of tourist attrac-
tions, the coordinates of places of possible stops (parking lots), the coordinates of
public catering places, the coordinates of places for boarding public transport (air-
ports, railway stations and bus stations, places for ordering transfers, car rentals,
carsharing, etc.), coordinates of places of accommodation for tourists, tourist and
information centers, etc.
(c) Spatial parameters and time lags of movements between key points. Spatial and
temporal data are needed to determine the logistics of travel, select the type of
transport, purchase tickets, etc. since attractions can be located at remote distances.
(d) Cost parameters of movement (cost of tickets, fuel, transport rental, transfer), cost
parameters of visits to key points (cost of entry, excursion service, parking, etc.).
(e) Sufficiently detailed information about the key points of the tourist product (at-
tractions, places of stops, overnight stays, meals, gas stations, etc.). The data are
collected by various mapping and navigation services (Google Map, Maps.Me, Yan-
dex Map, etc.), as well as booking services (Booking, AirBrib, Ostrovok, Kvartirka,
Sutochno.ru, etc.), which are in the public domain access. Therefore, an important
task is the integration of the recommender ecosystem with third-party services to
obtain the required information by users, as well as the availability of links to various
sites associated with key points on the Internet. Since existing services do not provide
the ability to download the collected data, the integration is the addition of many
links to third-party resources tied to the coordinates of key points.
(f) Links to reviews of travelers who have previously visited key points. Real reviews
of key waypoints are important when synthesizing or selecting a tourism product
according to user preferences. It is very important to have up-to-date feedback from
other people (within a few months), including negative information.
1. Information about the key points of the tourist route and other parameters of the
tourist route, as a rule, is presented in a variety of sources on the Internet, therefore this
stage is implemented using the crawling technology with the cleaning of the received
data from duplicates and information noise. The search and collection of information
about key points is carried out by crawling various sources and consolidating links to
resources with national information. At the same time, bypassing previously found
links should be periodically repeated to update information and remove obsolete and
empty links.
2. To reduce information noise at the consolidation stage, the found links to the same
resources and duplicates of information on different sites and services are checked
and excluded. The first task is solved quite simply by simply comparing links, and to
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 9 of 19
solve the second task, it is necessary to extract and compare textual descriptions. To
do this, the extracted information about the key points is converted into vector word
models using the modified Word2Vec algorithm with the calculation of the sampled
logistic loss function to optimize the learning model in the comparative analysis of
texts. To identify updated information, timestamps of adding data to source sites
are used.
(B) The second stage is the collection, cleaning, and consolidation of the personal
information of the tourist and data about his preferences and opportunities.
The main difficulty of working with a recommender ecosystem is determined by the
need to model the process of choosing tourist products with a predictive assessment of time,
cost, personal and other parameters of routes, taking into account various factors, such
as route complexity, weather conditions in a given time frame, cost changes on the route,
possible accidents, and incidents. The complexity increases significantly when synthesizing
group routes, since one also has to consider the preferences, capabilities, and constraints
from individual users in groups using a game theory model, such as the Nash equilibrium
model. To take into account the various criteria for the optimality of routes and temporal,
spatial, financial, and other factors, it is necessary to use multi-criteria optimization models.
Moreover, the user should be able to make changes to the recommended tourist product
after getting acquainted with the updated information about the key points of the route
and feedback from other users about them.
1. At the first step of this stage, users are asked to enter their personal data (personal,
identification, financial, etc.) during the registration process in the recommender
ecosystem. In addition to identification (passport and other data) and financial data
(linking cards to pay for services), personal data also include age, weight, physical
fitness assessment and some medical indicators that are necessary to recommend the
complexity and length of routes, forecast average speed of movement, taking into
account restrictions when visiting key points. The completeness of the information
entered at this step further affects the optimization of the choice of a tourist product
for a particular tourist and the life cycle management of the synthesized tourist
product. Personal and personal data are virtual characteristics of a tourist’s digital
avatar and are stored in the profile, which is presented as a block of a distributed
registry, the result of calculating the hash function as a unique identifier. Personal
and personal data change when they are updated. With each change, the profile
hash identifier is recalculated and re-indexed to combine all data blocks (blocks of
previously selected products, blocks of tourist preferences) associated with his digital
avatar. The characteristics of the avatar are further applied to cluster tourists according
to their physical, financial, and other capabilities, linking to a set of possible tourist
routes for this cluster.
2. In the next step, the tourism preferences of the user are determined for the time
interval chosen by him and the given geospatial wishes. To help users, a questionnaire
with a digital bot is built according to the architecture of the recommender ecosystem
to answer frequently asked questions and provide expert assistance to tourists when
filling out questionnaire forms. A registered user must fill out a questionnaire every
time their travel preferences change. The entered data about the user’s travel prefer-
ences in a specific time interval is stored in the form of a distributed registry block and
is associated with the hash identifier of his digital travel avatar, which is previously
calculated from personal and personal data. If the preferences of the tourist do not
change during the next selection of the route, then he does not need to fill out the
questionnaire again and the previously formed block is used to select the product.
When tourist preferences change, after each new filling of the questionnaire, a new
block of the distributed registry is formed, which is also identified by a hash identifier
of the digital avatar. If, in the process of working with the system, the user uses one
set of preferences each time or rarely changes it, it is determined by a static avatar,
the set of blocks of which practically does not change. A user who often changes his
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 10 of 19
preferences is considered a dynamic avatar and the set of blocks that characterize his
avatar constantly grows. Blocks with information about tourist preferences of avatars
are associated with a hash identifier, on the one hand, with blocks of personal and
personal information, and, on the other hand, with tourist products synthesized at
the next stage, the descriptions of which are also presented in the form of a chain of
distributed registry blocks.
3. In the next step, the digital avatars of tourists are clustered according to the criteria
generated from personal data. Each cluster brings together users who are similar in
personal, physical, financial, and other characteristics, which they entered in the first
step. This step is necessary to group users in order to offer them selecting only those
tourism products that meet medical, physical, financial, and other restrictions. When
changing personal and personal data, clustering for each user is performed again after
entering new data.
4. The next step of this stage is to solve the problem of clustering digital avatars of
tourists according to the characteristics of their tourist preferences, which they entered
through the questionnaire. This step for static avatars is most often performed only
once or rarely, in case of a change in his preferences. For a dynamic avatar, the
clustering algorithm is implemented after each new input of travel preference data.
The result of clustering is grouping into clusters similar in preferences of tourists.
At the same time, the parameters of their preferences are averaged and assigned to
virtual digital avatars of clusters, which are considered to be their centers and relative
to which the distances for individual digital tourist avatars are calculated. The average
parameters of the cluster avatar are recorded as a data block, for the identification of
which the hash of the cluster identifier is calculated. When adding new preferences
by a tourist, his digital avatar can be cloned and the clone falls into several clusters
at the same time, if the new set of preferences is very different in distance from the
center of the old cluster. If the set of preferences does not change too much and after
recalculating the distances it is closest to the center of the old cluster, then cloning
does not occur. In the future, the synthesis of tourist routes is performed according to
a set of averaged preferences corresponding to the digital avatar of the cluster. The
recommender system will offer all synthesized routes for a cluster avatar to all its
tourist avatars. After selecting a tourist product from those offered by the system, its
parameters and components are added to the personal tourist data block, which is
identified by the hash identifier of the tourist avatar. If none of the options suits the
user, then the user will be asked to synthesize their own tourist route based on the
key points. The new route will be linked to his digital avatar with a double ID hash
that includes his avatar’s personal hash and the hash ID of the cluster to which the
clone belongs.
(C) The third stage is the synthesis and clustering of tourism products.
One of the objectives of the study is the synthesis and selection of TP in accordance with
the individual preferences of tourists, considering the acquired and third-party tourism
experience, and the influence of external factors to optimize the life cycle of TP at all
stages in order to rationally use the tourist and recreational resources of the regions of the
Russian Federation. Each synthesized version of the tourist route represents a scheme of its
movement between key points with temporal, spatial, financial, and other characteristics of
the sites. The scheme is visualized on the map as a route of key points and sections of the
route, and parameters, descriptions, and links to various information (text data, graphics,
photos, and video materials), reviews of key points and sections are visualized through a
drop-down menu when selected.
Tourist route synthesis can be performed in automated and manual modes. In an
automated mode, a synthesis of a set of alternative routes is performed according to the
matrix of tourist preferences of the digital avatar of the cluster, which the user got into
at the previous stage, with quantitative estimates of the parameters of a possible tourist
product. Tourist preferences can be represented not only by quantitative, but also by
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 11 of 19
qualitative parameters. To represent qualitative parameters, fuzzy linguistic variables are
used. Therefore, in the general case, the complete preference matrix in the initial state has a
fuzzy nature.
1. The first step of the stage of automated synthesis is the solution of the fuzzification
problem for the transition to a purely quantitative matrix. During the procedure,
specific values of membership functions of fuzzy terms are determined based on
the initial data, which represent the set V = {v1, v2, . . . , vm}. The parameter vi∈Xi,
where Xi is the universe of the linguistic variable βi for which the set of conditions of
the form < βi is considered refers to αj > with the membership function µ
(K)
v n for the
variable βi Since the value of vi is used as an argument, a set of quantitative values is
thus found, which are the result of the fuzzification of conditions.
2. Next, to identify the preference matrix, a hash of its contents is calculate d, which is
then used as a unique identifier of a tourist product synthesized for a specific user. As
a geospatial reference of the route, the spatial coordinates of the places of its beginning
and end are used. For visual identification of the tourist product selected by a specific
user, he is assigned a picture with a stylized image of the tourist’s avatar. If a route
is chosen by a group of tourists, then a set of avatar images that have chosen it at
a given time is assigned to it. The number of avatars for each route determines the
statistics of its choice and its popularity. This statistic allows users to choose routes by
popularity or, for example, choose routes where there are a small number of tourists at
a given time. For a set of alternative routes that have not yet been selected by specific
users, an image generated by the system is installed to identify the digital avatar of
the cluster.
3. The spectrum of possible tourist routes is synthesized according to the preference
matrix of the avatar of the centroid of the cluster to which the user belongs. Automatic
synthesis of possible routes is implemented by an algorithm based on the traveling
salesman method with an estimate of time lags and approximate costs for travel,
accommodation, meals, sightseeing, excursion services, etc. If such routes have been
synthesized earlier, then they are simply offered to the user to choose from. Each user
in the cluster, after setting the start and end points of the route, travel time interval,
selection of attractions and cost indicators, is offered a number of existing alternative
routes associated with the cluster avatar. The hashes of the selected tourism products
are added to the tourist’s personalized travel profile block and further form a matrix of
links to the traveled routes to evaluate his travel experience and offer similar products
to him in the future. He can independently choose the product that suits him, let
the recommender system bot choose the most optimal route according to the criteria
he has chosen, or switch to the manual synthesis mode of his own unique product
(point 4), which will later be associated with the user avatar and the cluster avatar
using the double hashing method. In the second case, the multicriteria optimization
module is activated to select the most suitable route, and the user is offered a number
of optimization criteria. Optimization criteria are selected depending on the mode of
travel of the tourist. Examples of sets of optimization criteria can be the following:
(a) For hikers, the criteria can be: minimum distance between successive points of the
route, maximum points on the route, taking into account the average speed of the
tourist, taking into account the time for their inspection, the presence of stops, meals,
toilets on the route; (b) for cyclists, the criteria can be: the minimum distance between
successive points of the route, the maximum points on the route, taking into account
the average speed of the cyclist, taking into account the time for their inspection,
the availability of stops, food, toilets and overnight on the route; (c) for car tourists
traveling by public transport, the criteria can be: minimum travel time (taking into
account the travel time between points in accordance with the traffic schedule) for
a given travel time per day, minimum travel costs or a given ticket price, maximum
attractions with taking into account the time for their inspection, the availability of
stops on the route, meals and overnight stays; (d) for tourists traveling by private
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 12 of 19
vehicle, the criteria can be: minimum travel time (including travel time between
points) for a given travel time per day, minimum travel cost, maximum attractions
during daylight hours, taking into account the time to see them, availability of gas
stations, stops, meals, etc. on the route. In any case, for a tourist, the choice of the
optimal route is related to the purpose of the trip, which can be determined by visiting
a certain number of specific attractions, choosing the distance to travel between given
points, financial criteria, etc. The conditions for solving the problem are difficult
to find a single option, especially for a group of tourists. One of the options for
solving the route selection problem is the traveling salesman method, when the initial
conditions are written in the form of a matrix, where the rows correspond to the key
points of the route, and the columns correspond to the criteria for selecting points.
The most difficult to choose the best routes are cities with a lot of attractions that
a tourist is going to see in a limited time, since possible routes include streets that
intersect with each other, house numbers, various modes of transport, many places to
sleep and eat with similar characteristics. Therefore, here there is the greatest number
of options, the choice of which is a significant difficulty. The simplest solution to the
problem is the “brute force” method, when all possible route options are considered
to select the optimal one.
4. The formation of a tourist product in manual mode is implemented by the user on a
digital map by setting key points of the route with a choice of interesting sights, places
of residence, meals, stops, transport, etc. The set of parameters and descriptions of
the components of the synthesized tourist product is recorded in the tourist product
block and is associated by double hashing with the hash of the tourist avatar and the
avatar of his cluster. A hash of the synthesized route is also calculated for its unique
identification and binding to blocks with data on route components (key points). Thus,
in a distributed registry, a tourist product is represented as a chain of blocks with a
description of the route, its key points, personal and personal data of the tourist who
chose it, a set of tourist preferences of the avatar of this tourist and a set of tourist
preferences of the cluster avatar.
5. In the last step of this stage, the synthesized tourist products are clustered according
to the degree of similarity of routes, descriptions of key points, and sites with similar
characteristics in accordance with the preference matrices of digital tourist avatars.
Clustering results are used to identify connections between routes created by different
users, comparative analysis, and evaluation of alternative tourism products in order
to select the best routes for a particular tourist and/or group according to preferences,
features, and capabilities, as well as the likely integration of the most similar of
them. Such tourist products will be called convergent. The degree of convergence
determines the assessment of the similarity of tourism products (Figure 3).
4.2. Blockchain-Based Tourism Product Representation
The distributed ledger technology (DLT) is a way to ensure reliability, uniqueness, and
integrity of digital files, and to enhance data resilience against hacks and cyberattacks [48].
To identify the data blocks in a distributed ledger, a unique identifier being the resulting
hash value is used. It is added both to its header and to any transactions with block data.
The ledger itself is formed from blocks of transactions linked by the previous block hash
included into the data structures of the current block with calculating the hash thereof. In
our case, operations to form and change data blocks with user information and tourist
preferences in the distributed ledger of their digital avatars, and those with synthesized
tourist routes in the distributed ledger of tourism products are termed as transactions. Thus,
two chains of data blocks are formed, with the links between thereof being established
when selecting tourism products and matching their parameters with tourist preferences.
Blockchain data of tourism products contain characteristics of tourist preferences; data on
digital user avatars; temporal, spatial, financial, and other logistics data about the tourist
route; information about key points with text and graphics (photos, images, animation)
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 13 of 19
materials; audio and video recordings; links to third-party services; information resources
for the user convenience when choosing or synthesizing a tourism product.
Algorithms 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 21 
 
descriptions of the components of the synthesized tourist product is recorded in the 
tourist product block and is associated by double hashing with the hash of the tourist 
avatar and the avatar of his cluster. A hash of the synthesized route is also calculated 
for its unique identification and binding to blocks with data on route components 
(key points). Thus, in a distributed registry, a tourist product is represented as a chain 
of blocks with a description of the route, its key points, personal and personal data 
of the tourist who chose it, a set of tourist preferences of the avatar of this tourist and 
a set of tourist preferences of the cluster avatar. 
5. In the last step of this stage, the synthesized tourist products are clustered according 
to the degree of similarity of routes, descriptions of key points, and sites with similar 
characteristics in accordance with the preference matrices of digital tourist avatars. 
Clustering results are used to identify connections between routes created by differ-
ent users, comparative analysis, and evaluation of alternative tourism products in 
order to select the best routes for a particular tourist and/or group according to pref-
erences, features, and capabilities, as well as the likely integration of the most similar 
of them. Such tourist products will be called convergent. The degree of convergence 
determines the assessment of the similarity of tourism products (Figure 3). 
 
Figure 3. Stages of the algorithm for developing an individual tourism product. 
  
Figure 3. Stages of the algorithm for developing an individual tourism product.
The integrity of the accumulated information in distributed ledgers is ensured by triple
hashing. The links of successive entries of each ledger are implemented by two hashes that
are calculated both for the main entry and the metadata. Wherein, each calculated hashes
is used to calculate another one, and the resulting hash is inserted into the header of the
next entry. The third hash pair establishes a link between the two ledgers. When choosing
a route for a particular user, the calculated digital avatar hash is inserted into the header of
the data block with the selected tourism product, and, conversely, the hash of the selected
product is added to the digital avatar data block. Next, the number of tourism product
hashes accumulated in the user digital avatar block is used as a tourist experience estimate
to be used in tourism rating depending on the number of trips. If the hash is not found in
the entry or does not match after being calculated, then the entry is modified.
To authenticate user digital avatars and those of tourism products, a smart contract that
executes the linearly homomorphic signature (LHS) algorithm of an avatar (product) [44,45]
is used. The verified identifier of a digital avatar or product (unique signature) is synthe-
sized by combining two hash functions:
(a) H1 (Id,(X,Y)), where Id (digital avatar (product) identifier) and X,Y (latitude and longi-
tude coordinates of the user location (starting point of the route) are the input data;
(b) H2 (T(x,y)), where T is a point on the elliptic curve over a finite field with (x,y) coordinates:
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 14 of 19
{(x,y) ∈ (Rp)2 | y2 = x3 + ax + b (mod p), 4a3 + 27b2 6= 0 (mod p)} ∪ {0} (1)
where Rp is a finite field of a, b integers modulo p, and 0 is a point at infinity.
The elliptic curve point is to enhance the security of digital avatar (product) data
in order to complicate the procedure for potential signature decryption based on the
elliptic curve discrete logarithm problem. The generated signature can be represented as a
combined S hash:
S = (H1(Id,(X,Y)),H2(T(x,y)) (2)
To calculate the first part H1(Id,(X,Y) of the digital signature, the secure hash algorithm
with a digest size of 256 bits (SHA-256) is used, being applied as a bitcoin hashing algorithm
in the blockchain. To synthesize the second part H2(T(x,y) of the digital signature, the elliptic
curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA) is used, being defined in the group of points on
the elliptic curve.
A digital signature of an avatar (product) is generated according to the following
algorithm (Figure 4):
Algorithms 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 21 
 
A digital signature of an avatar (product) is generated according to the following 
algorithm (Figure 4): 
Step 1: Pick integer m  {1,…, n-1} at random, where n is the order of the group, 
Step 2: Determine point T = mP on the curve, where p is the base point of the sub-
group, 
Step 3: Calculate parameter y = xP mod n, where xP is the x coordinate of the p point, 
Step 4: If y = 0, then pick another number m and go to Step 2. 
Step 5: Calculate digital signature S = m−1 (H2 + x H1) mod n of an avatar (product), 
Step 6: If S = 0, then pick another number m and go to Step 2. 
 
Figure 4. Algorithm for generation of an avatar (product). 
The digital signature of the avatar S provides for identifying users and making trans-
actions on their behalf when creating a personalized tourism product. To implement a 
smart contract for the synthesis and authentication of the digital signature of an avatar 
(product), the stateful Ethereum blockchain technology is used. Authentication of digital 
avatars and tourism products is necessary to establish links between user travel profiles 
and selected tourist routes, and to detect fake avatars and invalid tourism products. Iden-
tified “bad” tourism products and compromised digital avatars are removed from the 
system and their hashes are added to the blacklist.  
Figure 5 shows a structure of the information recommender system to build a tourist 
route. 
Figure 4. Algorithm for generation of an avatar (product).
Step 1: Pick integer m ∈ {1, . . . , n−1} at random, where n is the order of the group,
Step 2: Determine point T = mP on the curve, where p is the base point of the subgroup,
Step 3: Calculate parameter y = xP mod n, where xP is the x coordinate of the p point,
Step 4: If y = 0, then pick another number m and go to Step 2.
Step 5: Calculate digital signature S = m−1 (H2 + x H1) mod n of an avatar (product),
Step 6: If S = 0, then pick another number m and go to Step 2.
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 15 of 19
The digital signature of the avatar S provides for identifying users and making transac-
tions on their behalf when creating a personalized tourism product. To implement a smart
contract for the synthesis and authentication of the digital signature of an avatar (product),
the stateful Ethereum blockchain technology is used. Authentication of digital avatars and
tourism products is necessary to establish links between user travel profiles and selected
tourist routes, and to detect fake avatars and invalid tourism products. Identified “bad”
tourism products and compromised digital avatars are removed from the system and their
hashes are added to the blacklist.
Figure 5 shows a structure of the information recommender system to build a tourist route.
Algorithms 2023, 16, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 21 
 
 
Figure 5. Structure of a tourist route information recommender system. 
Since the system is recommendatory, it will offer several options according to pref-
erences. If the user is not satisfied with any option, then he repeats the request and the 
neural network offers new options, excluding those that were rejected by him, and so on 
until there are no options left. If none of them fit anyway, then the user is invited to design 
the route himself by selecting points with sights on the map and manually select places 
for overnight stays and meals along the generated route. In the future, the manually gen-
erated route is added to the user profile, and it is determined which cluster the generated 
route corresponds to, the preferences of the user group for this cluster are set or a new 
cluster of preferences is formed, tied to the route, and then the set of route features and 
preferences is used to retrain the neural network for future recommendations to this type 
of user. 
5. Discussion and Conclusions 
In this paper, the authors have proposed a concept of universal information recom-
mender system for building a personalized tourist route. The concept includes an original 
authorial DLT-based methodology for tourism product synthesis in order to consistently 
form a digital tourist avatar being a cyber-physical system. To form recommendations, it 
is proposed to cluster digital avatars of tourist profiles and tourism products for subse-
quent individualization of the tourism product offer. 
Despite current dynamic research on tourism recommender systems, a lot of issues 
and challenges have yet to be resolved [21,49,50,51,52]. 
Tourism recommender systems are basically focused on interaction with the target 
user, thus emphasizing on the design of human-machine interaction within a cyber-phys-
ical system rather than on optimizing the function of predicting results. Therefore, when 
developing a RS, the expediency of using new forms of interaction, such as bots or speech 
interfaces, is updated. 
Recently, the use of neural network and deep neural network methods [53–57] has 
become a key trend. Typically, deep learning algorithms use a sequence of non-linear pro-
cessing layers to represent complex features [56]. However, while recognizing their effec-
tiveness in some areas, for example, when creating sequences of recommendations with 
the implicit construction of an algorithm for solving a problem, it should still be recog-
nized that this method does not allow solving all types of recommender problems. 
To implement an individual tourist route, it is vital to make a decision either to visit 
the destination or to proceed the already started trajectory of attended POI [57,58]. In 
Figure 5. Structure of a tourist route information recommender system.
Since the system is recommendatory, it will offer several options according to pref-
erences. If the user is not satisfied with any option, then he repeats the request and the
neural network offers new options, excluding those that were rejected by him, and so on
until there are no options left. If none of them fit anyway, then the user is invited to design
the route himself by selecting points with sights on the map and manually select places for
overnight stays and meals along the generated route. In the future, the manually generated
route is added to the user profile, and it is determined which cluster the generated route
corresponds to, the preferences of the user group for this cluster are set or a new cluster of
preferences is formed, tied to the route, and then the set of route features and preferences is
used to retrain the neural network for future recommendations to this type of user.
5. Discussion and Conclusions
In this paper, the authors have proposed a concept of universal information recom-
mender system for building a personalized tourist route. The concept includes an original
authorial DLT-based methodology for tourism product synthesis in order to consistently
form a digital tourist avatar being a cyber-physical system. To form recommendations, it is
proposed to cluster digital avatars of tourist profiles and tourism products for subsequent
individualization of the tourism product offer.
Despite current dynamic research on tourism recommender systems, a lot of issues
and challenges have yet to be resolved [21,49–52].
Tourism recommender systems are basically focused on interaction with the target user,
thus emphasizing on the design of human-machine interaction within a cyber-physical
system rather than on optimizing the function of predicting results. Therefore, when
developing a RS, the expediency of using new forms of interaction, such as bots or speech
interfaces, is updated.
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 16 of 19
Recently, the use of neural network and deep neural network methods [53–57] has
become a key trend. Typically, deep learning algorithms use a sequence of non-linear
processing layers to represent complex features [56]. However, while recognizing their
effectiveness in some areas, for example, when creating sequences of recommendations
with the implicit construction of an algorithm for solving a problem, it should still be
recognized that this method does not allow solving all types of recommender problems.
To implement an individual tourist route, it is vital to make a decision either to visit
the destination or to proceed the already started trajectory of attended POI [57,58]. In
tourism, unlike, for example, e-commerce, there is no clearly defined catalog of recom-
mended products, since preferences are often very individual and diverse [59–61]. Thus,
it is important for a RS to help a tourist with any preferences to find an interested object
based on personal cultural and mental characteristics when making a decision [62]. Ac-
cording to some authors [21,63,64], first, a RS should be able to “convince” a tourist of the
correctness of its recommendations, especially if an object (POI) is not yet known to the
tourist. Second, the recommended POIs should satisfy and provide the tourist with an
unforgettable experience.
It should be emphasized that existing approaches often neglect a very important
aspect, namely, contextual factors of the tourist route that shape travel experience: cultural
characteristics of a tourist, weather conditions, travel accompaniment, travel period, etc.
As for online tourism market, its major players have not yet adopted these complex
decisions and are currently offering recommendations far from being personalized, as they
are either based on the regular user opinion or the popularity of tourist sites [63,64].
This case may be due to the difficulty of obtaining information about actual user
behavior, that is, about actual experience of travelers and the performed sequence of
actions [65–70]. Thus, a RS in tourism lacks data on user preferences to create effective and
personalized recommendations [71].
In this article, the recommender system proposed by the authors solves this problem
by creating a digital tourist avatar with actual information being collected and accumulated
throughout the implementation of the entire tourist route. Based on this information, the
construction and subsequent training of a multilayer fuzzy neural network are imple-
mented. This provides an opportunity both to recommend a tourist objects that he liked in
the past and to indicate new potential points of the tourist route based on the clustering of
digital avatars of tourist profiles and tourism products. The importance of such aspects in
the construction of personalized tourist routes is noted by many authors [72,73].
In this study, the authors have proposed the concept of representing a tourism product
based on a distributed ledger technology (blockchain) that has great potential for creating
intelligent tourism products and providing personalized services [74].
It is via the blockchain that trust is strengthened, and safer exchange of information,
transparency and openness are ensured. It allows one to effectively “eliminate” inter-
mediaries and provide the same powers to both suppliers and consumers of tourism
services [75].
However, despite the promising benefits, the implementation of blockchain technology
in the construction of intelligent tourist routes may face a number of problems. First, the
conceptual complexity of blockchain technology and excessive market novelty create the
biggest challenge for its practical implementation [76]. Moreover, some tourism organiza-
tions and tourism service providers are not ready to implement blockchain due to lack of
experience and knowledge about this new breakthrough technology [77].
Other problems are related to security issues and lack of awareness about data secu-
rity [78], the risks of losing personal data, keys, misplacement of tokens, and protecting the
confidentiality of user personal records [79].
6. Future Research Directions
To implement the algorithm for developing the optimal tourism product, the authors
plan to create and present an original method for clustering preferences of tourist pro-
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 17 of 19
files and tourism products and a method for comparative analysis (benchmarking) of
tourism products.
Future research into the problem of developing a universal tourism recommender
system is bound up with promising theoretical and methodological developments and
system research in the field of designing a digital tourism cross-sectoral ecosystem based on
public-private partnership, taking into account digitalization and integration of individual
information systems of federal departments, regional authorities, and government services.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, L.G.; formal analysis, L.G., A.F., M.K. and L.B.; writing—
original draft preparation, L.G., A.F., M.K. and L.B.; collected data, L.G. and A.F.; review and editing,
L.G. and A.F.; supervision, L.G.; writing—conceptualization, L.G.; methodology, L.G. and A.F.; project
administration, L.G.; funding acquisition, L.G. All authors have read and agreed to the published
version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by grant from the Russian Science Foundation (RSF) and Penza
Oblast (Russia) (project No. 22-28-20524), https://rscf.ru/en/project/22-28-20524/.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Acknowledgments: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Tourism Development Strategy of the Russian Federation until 2035. Available online: https://tourism.gov.ru/ (accessed on
27 August 2022).
2. Vishnevskaya, E.V. The impact of digital technologies on the development of the tourism market. Res. Result. Bus. Serv. Technol.
2019, 5, 12–24. [CrossRef]
3. Borràs, J.; Moreno, A.; Valls, A. Intelligent tourism recommender systems: A survey. Expert Syst. Appl. 2014, 41, 7370–7389.
[CrossRef]
4. Gavalas, D.; Konstantopoulos, C.; Mastakas, K.; Pantziou, G. Mobile recommender systems in tourism. J. Netw. Comput. Appl.
2013, 39, 319–333. [CrossRef]
5. Werthner, H.; Ricci, F. E-commerce and tourism. Commun. ACM 2004, 47, 101–105. [CrossRef]
6. Ricci, F.; Rokach, L.; Shapira, B. Recommender Systems Handbook; Springer: New York, NY, USA, 2015.
7. Morozov, M.A.; Morozova, N.S. The concept of the digital ecosystem of the tourism and hospitality industry. Serv. Tour. Curr.
Chall. 2020, 14, 27–36. [CrossRef]
8. Kataev, M.Y.; Emelianenko, A.A.; Emelianenko, V.A.; Pyak, P.A.; Ukolov, R.I.; Kriventsov, D.M. The automated program system
of enterprise business-processes control: Tasks, description, structure. Proc. TUSUR Univ. 2011, 2, 282–289.
9. Kataev, M.Y.; Loseva, N.V.; Bulysheva, L.A. Structure of an information recommendation system to support decision-making of
the state institution. Proc. TUSUR Univ. 2018, 21, 83–87. [CrossRef]
10. Ricci, F. Recommender systems in tourism. In Handbook of E-Tourism; Xiang, Z., Fuchs, M., Gretzel, U., Höpken, W., Eds.; Springer:
Cham, Switzerland, 2020.
11. Sarkar, J.L.; Majumder, A.; Panigrahi, C.R.; Roy, S.; Pati, B. Tourism recommendation system: A survey and future research
directions. Multimed. Tools Appl. 2022, 1–45. [CrossRef]
12. Lucas, J.P.; Luz, N.; Moreno, M.N.; Anacleto, R.; Figueiredo, A.A.; Martins, C. A hybrid recommendation approach for a tourism
system. Expert Syst. Appl. 2013, 40, 3532–3550. [CrossRef]
13. Loh, S.; Lorenzi, F.; Garin, R.S.; Lichtnow, D. A tourism recommender system based on collaboration and text analysis. Inf. Technol.
Tour. 2003, 6, 157–165. [CrossRef]
14. Batet, M.; Moreno, A.; Sánchez, D.; Isern, D.; Valls, A. Turist@: Agent-based personalised recommendation of touristic activities.
Expert Syst. Appl. 2012, 39, 7319–7329. [CrossRef]
15. Bedi, P.; Agarwal, S.K.; Jindal, V. MARST: Multi-Agent Recommender System for E-Tourism Using Reputation Based Collaborative
Filtering. In Proceedings of the 9th International Workshop on Databases in Networked Information Systems–DNIS 2014, Aizu-
Wakamatsu, Japan, 24–26 March 2014; Volume 8381, pp. 189–201.
16. Burke, R. Hybrid recommender systems: Survey and experiments. User Model. User-Adapt. Interact. 2002, 12, 331–370. [CrossRef]
17. Felfernig, A.; Gordea, S.; Jannach, D.; Teppan, E.; Zanker, M. A short survey of recommendation technologies in travel and
tourism. OGAI J. 2007, 25, 17–22.
18. Vansteenwegen, P.; Souffriau, W.; Berghe, G.V.; Van Oudheusden, D. The city trip planner: An expert system for tourists. Expert
Syst. Appl. 2011, 38, 6540–6546. [CrossRef]
19. Lee, C.S.; Chang, Y.C.; Wang, M.H. Ontological recommendation multi-agent for Tainan City travel. Expert Syst. Appl. 2009, 36,
6740–6753. [CrossRef]
https://rscf.ru/en/project/22-28-20524/
https://tourism.gov.ru/
http://doi.org/10.18413/2408-9346-2019-5-4-0-2
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.06.007
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2013.04.006
http://doi.org/10.1145/1035134.1035141
http://doi.org/10.24411/1995-0411-2020-10402
http://doi.org/10.21293/1818-0442-2018-21-2-83-87
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11042-022-12167-w
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.12.061
http://doi.org/10.3727/1098305031436980
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2012.01.086
http://doi.org/10.1023/A:1021240730564
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2010.11.085
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2008.08.016
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 18 of 19
20. Baltrunas, L.; Ludwig, B.; Peer, S.; Ricci, F. Context relevance assessment and exploitation in mobile recommender systems. Pers.
Ubiquit. Comput. 2012, 16, 507–526. [CrossRef]
21. Massimo, D.; Ricci, F. Building effective recommender systems for tourists. AI Mag. 2022, 43, 209–224. [CrossRef]
22. Qi, L.; Liu, Y.; Zhang, Y.; Xu, X.; Bilal, M.; Song, H. Privacy-Aware Point-of-Interest Category Recommendation in Internet of
Things. IEEE Internet Things J. 2022, 9, 21398–21408. [CrossRef]
23. Konstantopoulos, C.; Gavalas, D.; Pantziou, G. Clustering in mobile ad-hoc networks through neighborhood stability-based
mobility prediction. Comput. Netw. 2008, 52, 1797–1824. [CrossRef]
24. Tsekouras, G.E.; Anagnostopoulos, C.; Gavalas, D.; Economou, D. Classification of web documents using fuzzy logic categor-
ical data clustering. In Artificial Intelligence and Innovations 2007: From Theory to Applications; Boukis, C., Pnevmatikakis, A.,
Polymenakos, L., Eds.; Springer: Boston, MA, USA, 2007; Volume 247, pp. 93–100. [CrossRef]
25. Huang, Y.; Bian, L. A Bayesian network and analytic hierarchy process based personalized recommendations for tourist attractions
over the Internet. Expert Syst. Appl. 2009, 36, 933–943. [CrossRef]
26. Porcel, C.; López-Herrera, A.G.; Herrera-Viedma, E. Recommender system for research resources based on fuzzy linguistic
modeling. Expert Syst. Appl. 2009, 36, 5173–5183. [CrossRef]
27. Gross, T.J.; Bessani, M.; Darwin, W.J.; Araújo, R.B.; Carvalho Vale, F.A.; Maciel, C.D. An analytical threshold for combining
Bayesian Networks. Knowl. Based Syst. 2019, 175, 36–49. [CrossRef]
28. Liu, Y.; Wu, H.; Rezaee, K.; Khosravi, M.R.; Khalaf, O.I.; Khan, A.A.; Ramesh, D.; Qi, L. Interaction-Enhanced and Time-Aware
Graph Convolutional Network for Successive Point-of-Interest Recommendation in Traveling Enterprises. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform.
2022, 19, 635–643. [CrossRef]
29. Guo, K.; Hu, S.; Zhu, H.; Tan, W. Industrial information integration method to vehicle routing optimization using grey target
decision. J. Ind. Inf. Integr. 2022, 27, 100336. [CrossRef]
30. Abdirad, M.; Krishnan, K.; Gupta, D. A two-stage metaheuristic algorithm for the dynamic vehicle routing problem in industry
4.0 approach. J. Manag. Anal. 2021, 8, 69–83. [CrossRef]
31. Sánchez-Oro, J.; López-Sánchez, A.D.; Colmenar, J.M. A general variable neighborhood search for solving the multi-objective
open vehicle routing problem. J. Heuristics 2020, 26, 423–452. [CrossRef]
32. Abdullahi, H.; Reyes-Rubiano, L.; Ouelhadj, D.; Faulin, J.; Juan, A.A. Modelling and multi-criteria analysis of the sustainability
dimensions for the green vehicle routing problem. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2021, 292, 143–154. [CrossRef]
33. YouRoute. Available online: https://youroute.ru (accessed on 27 August 2022).
34. Sygic Maps. Available online: https://maps.sygic.com (accessed on 27 August 2022).
35. ClassTravel. Available online: https://www.classtravel.com (accessed on 27 August 2022).
36. Maps.Me. Available online: https://maps.me (accessed on 27 August 2022).
37. Krpano. Available online: https://krpano.com (accessed on 27 August 2022).
38. Seroka. Available online: https://sferika.ru (accessed on 27 August 2022).
39. Yandex Maps. Available online: https://yandex.ru/maps/ (accessed on 27 June 2022).
40. 2GIS. Available online: https://2gis.ru (accessed on 27 August 2022).
41. Google Maps. Available online: https://www.google.com/maps (accessed on 27 August 2022).
42. Wikimapia. Available online: https://bestmaps.ru/map/osm/Wikimapia (accessed on 27 August 2022).
43. The Government of the Russian Federation. Decree of the Government of the Russian Federation of 7 April 2022 No. 616 on Amendments to
Regulations on Classification of Hotels; Moscow, Russia. 2022.
44. GOST R 50762-95; Public Catering. Classification for Enterprises. Gosstandard of Russia: Moscow, Russia, 1995.
45. Dwivedi, V.P.; Shrivastava, M. Beyond Word2Vec: Embedding Words and Phrases in Same Vector Space. In Proceedings of the
14th International Conference on Natural Language Processing (ICON-2017), Kolkata, India, 18–21 December 2017; pp. 205–211.
46. Mikolov, T.; Sutskever, I.; Chen, K.; Corrado, G.S.; Dean, J. Distributed Representations of Words and Phrases and their
Compositionality. In Proceedings of the Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 26: 27th Annual Conference on
Neural Information Processing Systems (NIPS 2013), Lake Tahoe, NV, USA, 5–8 December 2013; pp. 3111–3119.
47. Deev, M.V.; Gamidullaeva, L.A.; Finogeev, A.G.; Finogeev, A.A. Convergent approach to updating educational programs and
content for the development of an education ecosystem during transition to a digital economy. Model. Syst. Netw. Econ. Technol.
Nat. Soc. 2020, 3, 84–101. [CrossRef]
48. Franco, P. Understanding Bitcoin: Cryptography, Engineering and Economics, 1st ed.; John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.: Chichester, UK, 2014.
49. Lin, C.J.; Xue, R.; Yang, S.J.; Huang, X.; Li, S. Linearly homomorphic signatures from lattices. Comput. J. 2020, 63, 1871–1885.
[CrossRef]
50. Chen, W.; Lei, H.; Qi, K. Lattice-based linearly homomorphic signatures in the standard model. Theor. Comput. Sci. 2016,
634, 47–54. [CrossRef]
51. Jannach, D.; Pu, P.; Ricci, F.; Zanker, M. Recommender systems: Trends and frontiers. AI Mag. 2022, 43, 145–150. [CrossRef]
52. Ricci, F.; Werthner, H. Case-based querying for travel planning recommendation. Inf. Technol. Tour. 2002, 4, 215–226. [CrossRef]
53. Cankurt, S.; Subasi, A. Tourism demand modelling and forecasting using data mining techniques in multivariate time series: A
case study in Turkey. Turk. J. Electr. Eng. Comput. Sci. 2016, 24, 3388–3404. [CrossRef]
54. Efendigil, T.; Kahraman, C.; Önüt, S. A decision support system for demand forecasting with artificial neural networks and
neurofuzzy models: A comparative analysis. Expert Syst. Appl. 2008, 36, 6697–6707. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1007/s00779-011-0417-x
http://doi.org/10.1002/aaai.12057
http://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2022.3181136
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2008.01.018
http://doi.org/10.1007/978-0-387-74161-1_11
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2007.10.019
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2008.06.038
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2019.03.014
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2022.3200067
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jii.2022.100336
http://doi.org/10.1080/23270012.2020.1811166
http://doi.org/10.1007/s10732-017-9363-8
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2020.10.028
https://youroute.ru
https://maps.sygic.com
https://www.classtravel.com
https://maps.me
https://krpano.com
https://sferika.ru
https://yandex.ru/maps/
https://2gis.ru
https://www.google.com/maps
https://bestmaps.ru/map/osm/Wikimapia
http://doi.org/10.21685/2227-8486-2020-3-8
http://doi.org/10.1093/comjnl/bxaa034
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.tcs.2016.04.009
http://doi.org/10.1002/aaai.12050
http://doi.org/10.3727/109830501108751001
http://doi.org/10.3906/elk-1311-134
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2008.08.058
Algorithms 2023, 16, 58 19 of 19
55. Claveria, O.; Monte, E.; Torra, S. Tourism Demand Forecasting with Neural Network Models: Different Ways of Treating
Information. Int. J. Tour. Res. 2014, 17, 492–500. [CrossRef]
56. Kozlov, D.A. Neuroagents in Hospitality Industry and Tourism. ITportal 2016, 3. Available online: http://itportal.ru/science/
economy/neyroagentnyetekhnologiivindustr/ (accessed on 27 August 2022).
57. Karatzoglou, A.; Hidasi, B. Deep Learning for Recommender Systems. In Proceedings of the 11th ACM Conference on Rec-
ommender Systems (RecSys 2017), Como, Italy, 27–31 August 2017; Cremonesi, P., Ricci, F., Berkovsky, S., Tuzhilin, A., Eds.;
pp. 396–397.
58. Lin, C.J.; Chen, H.F.; Lee, T.S. Forecasting tourism demand using time series, artificial neural networks and multivariate adaptive
regression splines: Evidence from Taiwan. Int. J. Bus. Adm. 2011, 2, 14–24. [CrossRef]
59. Zhang, H.Q.; Li, J.B. Prediction of tourist quantity based on RBF neural network. J. Comput. 2012, 7, 965–970. [CrossRef]
60. Hong, M.; Jung, J.J. Multi-criteria tensor model for tourism recommender systems. Expert Syst. Appl. 2021, 170, 114537. [CrossRef]
61. Dhelim, S.; Aung, N.; Bouras, M.A.; Ning, H.; Cambria, E. A survey on personality-aware recommendation systems. Artif. Intell.
Rev. 2022, 55, 2409–2454. [CrossRef]
62. Hwang, Y.H.; Gretzel, U.; Fesenmaier, D.R. Behavioral Foundations for Human-Centric Travel Decision-Aid Systems. In
Proceedings of the 9th Information and Communication Technologies in Travel and Tourism (ENTER 2002), Innsbruck, Austria,
22–24 January 2002; Wöber, K.W., Frew, A.J., Hitz, M., Eds.; pp. 356–365.
63. Gretzel, U.; Werthner, H.; Koo, C.; Lamsfus, C. Conceptual foundations for understanding smart tourism ecosystems. Comput.
Hum. Behav. 2015, 50, 558–563. [CrossRef]
64. Deldjoo, Y.; Anelli, V.W.; Zamani, H.; Bellogin, A.; Di Noia, T. A flexible framework for evaluating user and item fairness in
recommender systems. User Model. User-Adapt. Interact. 2021, 31, 457–511. [CrossRef]
65. Matzarakis, A. Weather-and climate-related information for tourism. Tour. Hosp. Plan. Dev. 2006, 3, 99–115. [CrossRef]
66. Savard, I.; Mizoguchi, R. Context or culture: What is the difference? Res. Pract. Technol. Enhanc. Learn. 2019, 14, 23. [CrossRef]
67. Li, G.; Chen, Q.; Zheng, B.; Yin, H.; Nguyen, Q.V.H.; Zhou, X. Group-based recurrent neural networks for POI recommendation.
ACM/IMS Trans. Data Sci. 2020, 1, 1–18. [CrossRef]
68. Abdollahpouri, H.; Adomavicius, G.; Burke, R.; Guy, I.; Jannach, D.; Kamishima, T.; Krasnodebski, J.; Pizzato, L. Multistakeholder
recommendation: Survey and research directions. User Model. User-Adapt. Interact. 2020, 30, 127–158. [CrossRef]
69. Choe, Y.; Fesenmaier, D.R.; Vogt, C. Twenty-Five Years Past Vogt: Assessing the Changing Information Needs of American
Travellers. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies in Tourism (ENTER
2017), Rome, Italy, 24–26 January 2017; Schegg, R., Stangl, B., Eds.; pp. 489–502. [CrossRef]
70. Marchiori, E.; Cantoni, L.; Fesenmaier, D.R. What Did They Say About Us? Message Cues and Destination Reputation in Social
Media. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Information and Communication Technologies in Tourism (ENTER
2013), Innsbruck, Austria, 22–25 January 2013; Cantoni, L., Xiang, Z.P., Eds.; pp. 170–182.
71. Krishnamurthy, B.; Wills, C. Privacy Diffusion on the Web: A Longitudinal Perspective. In Proceedings of the 18th International
Conference on World Wide Web (WWW’09), New York, NY, USA, 20–24 April 2009; pp. 541–550. [CrossRef]
72. Elahi, M.; Braunhofer, M.; Gurbanov, T.; Ricci, F. User preference elicitation, rating sparsity and cold start. In Collaborative
Recommendations: Algorithms, Practical Challenges and Applications; Berkovsky, S., Cantador, I., Tikk, D., Eds.; World Scientific
Publishing, Co: Singapore, 2018; pp. 253–294.
73. Werthner, H.; Alzua-Sorzabal, A.; Cantoni, L.; Dickinger, A.; Gretzel, U.; Jannach, D.; Neidhardt, J.; Pröll, B.; Ricci, F.; Scaglione,
M.; et al. Future research issues in IT and tourism. J. Inf. Technol. Tour. 2015, 15, 1–15. [CrossRef]
74. Tyan, I.; Yagüe, M.I.; Guevara-Plaza, A. Blockchain technology for smart tourism destinations. Sustainability 2020, 12, 9715.
[CrossRef]
75. Filimonau, V.; Naumova, E. The blockchain technology and the scope of its application in hospitality operations. Int. J. Hosp.
Manag. 2020, 87, 102383. [CrossRef]
76. Gatteschi, V.; Lamberti, F.; Demartini, C.; Pranteda, C.; Santamaría, V. Blockchain and smart contracts for insurance: Is the
technology mature enough? Future Internet 2018, 10, 20. [CrossRef]
77. Flecha-Barrio, M.D.; Palomo, J.; Figueroa-Domecq, C.; Segovia-Perez, M. Blockchain implementation in hotel management.
In Information and Communication Technologies in Tourism; Neidhardt, J., Wörndl, W., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2020;
pp. 255–266.
78. Lin, I.; Liao, T. A survey of blockchain security issues and challenges. Int. J. Netw. Secur. 2017, 19, 653–659. [CrossRef]
79. Swan, M. Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy; O’Reilly Media, Inc.: Sebastopol, CA, USA, 2015.
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://doi.org/10.1002/jtr.2016
http://itportal.ru/science/economy/neyroagentnyetekhnologiivindustr/
http://itportal.ru/science/economy/neyroagentnyetekhnologiivindustr/
http://doi.org/10.5430/ijba.v2n2p14
http://doi.org/10.4304/jcp.7.4.965-970
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.114537
http://doi.org/10.1007/s10462-021-10063-7
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2015.03.043
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11257-020-09285-1
http://doi.org/10.1080/14790530600938279
http://doi.org/10.1186/s41039-019-0112-5
http://doi.org/10.1145/3343037
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11257-019-09256-1
http://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-51168-9_35
http://doi.org/10.1145/1526709.1526782
http://doi.org/10.1007/s40558-014-0021-9
http://doi.org/10.3390/su12229715
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhm.2019.102383
http://doi.org/10.3390/fi10020020
http://doi.org/10.6633/IJNS.201709.19(5).01
	Introduction 
	Literature Review 
	Conceptual Framework 
	Results 
	Methodology for Tourism Product Formation Based on User Preferences 
	Blockchain-Based Tourism Product Representation 
	Discussion and Conclusions 
	Future Research Directions 
	References