Blockchain Enabled Distributed Cooperative D2D Communications
Blockchain Enabled Distributed Cooperative D2D
Communications
Yulan Gao1, Mingming Wu1, Yue Xiao1, Ping Yang1, Bin Fu1, Dongyan Wang2
1The National Key Laboratory of Science and Technology on Communications,
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu, 611731, P. R. China
2 Tencent, Tencent Building, Midwest District of Hi-tech Park, Nanshan District, Shenzhen, 518057, P. R. China
(e-mail: xiaoyue@uestc.edu.cn)
Abstract—In this paper, we propose a blockchain (BC)-enabled
relay selection method in distributed cooperative communication
networks, where non-cell-edge users (NCEUs) consume transmit
power to relay cell edge users (CEUs) for uplink transmission in
exchange for payments from CEUs. The proposed BC-enabled
relay selection method aims at eliminating the failure of cooper-
ative device to device (D2D) communication while maintaining
privacy protection. By exploiting BC in the probe-reply phase,
both CEU request and NCEU reply messages can be recorded
in a verifiable manner. Once the feedback messages are received,
the next step is decision making, which can be implemented by
a two-sided matching game, in which the players include the
CEUs party and the NCEUs one. In addition, the information
recorded on the BC contains not only the probe-reply messages
but also the optimal matching profile (e.g., transmission power
sequence of NCEUs and the corresponding payment sequence
of CEUs) in the second phase. The simulation results show that
the proposed method is improved compared with the traditional
matching scheme.
Keywords—Blockchain (BC), relay selection, cooperative D2D
communications, matching theory.
I. INTRODUCTION
ONE of the main challenges faced by the design of fifth-
generation (5G) wireless technologies is addressing high
data rate and ubiquitous communication links for cellular
users (CUs) [1]. However, for cell edge users (CEUs), the
channel conditions are typically severely degraded so that the
direct uplink transmissions to the base station (BS) suffer
from the unacceptable quality of service (QoS). An efficient
technique to address this problem is the cooperative device to
device (D2D) communication which supports the transmission
through the relay node, which forwards the signals received
from the source node to its destination [2]– [4].
Up to now, cooperative D2D communication, with coopera-
tive relay transmission via D2D links as its important feature,
has been a critical building block to unlock the potential
of 5G networks. In cooperative D2D communications, the
source user equipment (UE) can choose to transmit to the
target node over direct link, or cooperative relay via relay UE,
according to the state of network, e.g., the channel conditions
and the amount of transmitted data by the source node, etc.
In addition, along with the wide spread of various wire-
less devices, especially with the advent of user configurable
intelligent devices, employing wireless terminals acting as
temporary relays may bring data integrity and privacy leakage
concerns, thus, the relay selection procedure is particularly
important for cooperative D2D communications. Currently,
a vast corpus of literature has focused on developing relay
(peer) selection methods for cooperative D2D communications
[5]– [7]. However, the existing works may not provide strict
means of privacy protection and data security, since there is
no verification process for the reliability and trust of the relay
node. If a non-trustworthy non-cell-edge user (NCEU) joins
the network by any means, it can result in D2D communication
failure of a certain CEU. Thus, the problem of providing
successful cooperative D2D communication can be mapped
into the problem of how to reliably authenticate the trust level
between all communicating participants. In this context, for the
cooperative D2D communication, a vast corpus of literature
has focused on the utilization of the Social Internet of Things
(SIoT) [8] paradigm, according to which objects are capable
of establishing social relationship in an autonomous way, with
respect to the rules set by their owners. The resulting social
network enables faster and more trustworthy relay selection
as well as significantly enhances the privacy protection by
exploiting the social network of “trust” objects [9]– [11].
More precisely, the authors of [9] have proposed a game-
theoretical approach to promote efficient cooperation between
devices in cooperative D2D communications by leveraging the
social trust and social reciprocity, respectively. The works in
[10], [11] have proposed a social awareness-assisted dynam-
ic relay selection scheme designed to balance the achieved
data rate and privacy protection. However, a centralized trust
management used in existing work will result in excessive
overhead and make the entire network vulnerable. An efficient
solution can be obtained by utilizing the features of the
blockchain (BC), which can ensure trust between the devices
from different individuals.
In this paper, we argue that BC technology underpinning
Token [12] can provide an effective solution to promote
successful cooperative D2D communications. The core idea of
BC is that it realizes a distributed, verifiable, and synchronized
ledger of transactions [12]. In order to motivate mobile users to
serve as relays and maintain a balance in the relay forwarding
service agreement, it is required to pay payment to the relay
users. Without loss of generality, we assume that any form of
digital currency on the Ethereum, called token, can be used
to pay for relay forwarding services. This combination can
978–1–7281–1244–2/19/$31.00 © 2019 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:23:07 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
realize privacy, data security and independent peer to peer
(P2P) transactions between CEU party and NCEU one. In
cooperative D2D communications, the relay selection process
mainly consists of two phases: probing phase and decision
making phase. Specifically, in the probing phase, the CEU
may broadcast a probing message embedded with its wallet
address, the size of transmission data and the public key. The
NCUEs close to the CEUs can receive the message, and they
will decide whether to response to the request depending on
their own situations (e.g., the maximum transmit power) as
well as the confirmation of CEUs’ relay access rights, i.e.,
whether they have enough digital currency. Then, the NCEUs
need to sign a confirmed probing message and destined for the
corresponding source nodes (i.e., CEUs). Moreover, both the
probing message of the CEUs and the reply message of the
NCEUs are recorded on the BC. Once the feedback messages
are received and processed by the source nodes (i.e., CEUs),
the next step is decision making. The optimal selection profile
can be obtained by executing the knowledge of potential
relays (e.g., the responsive NCEUs) and two-side matching
theory and will be recorded on the BC. Thus, in this transaction
pattern, CEUs can choose more reliable relay nodes based on
the contribution history recorded on the BC to introduce high
level of effective cooperative D2D communications.
The reminder of this paper is organized as follows. In
Section II, we will give the main three phases of the relay
access process in the cooperative communication networks,
then provide the basic background on BC technology in terms
of our proposal. The system model and BC-enabled relay
access protocol are presented in Section III. In Section IV, we
describe the simulations and compare our findings with the
traditional matching algorithm. Finally, concluding remarks
are given in Section V.
II. RELATED WORK
In this section, we present an overview of BC, and the gener-
al relay selection process in cooperative D2D communications
is introduced afterwards.
A. Blockchain
BC technology was first proposed by Satoshi Nakamoto
that underpins Bitcoin, and the first cryptocurrency system
launched in 2008 [13]. BC is a P2P immutable ledger of blocks
that inherently maintains the transactions contained within
them. It is resistant to modification of data, because the ledger
is distributed to any node who has participated in the network
as well as the revolutionary consensus mechanism known as
“Proof of Work”. Thus, BC is an attractive technology for
addressing the mentioned security and privacy challenges in
the relay selection process as a result of its key features
including decentralization, anonymity and security.
B. Relay Selection Process in Distributed Cooperative D2D
Communications
The cooperative D2D communication provides a way to
request forward transmission on an user equipment (UE,
i.e., relay node) from an UE (i.e., source node) possibly on
different networked nodes. In line with [11], cooperative D2D
communication consists of three phases as: measuring phase,
requesting phase and decision making phase. Moreover, the
authors of [10] have updated the social trust levels (i.e., social
trust) by considering the contribution history of UEs helping
each other to relay data. However, the social trust recognized
in this way is doubtful, since any participating user who has
accessed the network can modify the history according to
its interest and requirement. If it is possible to monitor the
transactions between UEs, we can create centralized validation
method, but this will incur excessive processing overheads and
a central-authority node is needed. Even if a central-authority
node helps to create validation method, the authenticity of
the method will still be doubtful because the central-authority
node may be destroyed by the attackers. The transactions
among UEs can also be altered by malicious potential relays.
For these reasons, creating reliable method of user trust
verification is difficult or even impossible.
III. SYSTEM MODEL AND BLOCKCHAIN USAGE IN
COOPERATIVE D2D COMMUNICATIONS
In our case, for the uplink transmission of CEUs, the
transmit power consumption is the performance limiting factor
for CEUs since they generally operate at low signal-to-noise
ratio (SNR) regimes [14]. The promising cooperative D2D
communication is defined as finding an optimal relay access
(e.g., collision-free access) to forward transmission.
A. System Model
S
S
S
R
R
l
R
Fig. 1: Cooperative D2D communication between CEUs and
NCEUs.
As depicted in Fig. 1, we consider a wireless communication
network which consists of multiple NCEUs and CEUs. We
assume that the CEUs are far away from the BS and require
NCEUs to serve as temporary relays in order to reduce their
power consumption. To motivate some NCEUs to serve as
relays, it is required to pay for per relay service immediately.
We consider the scenario that there are totally K mobile CEUs
in our considered cooperative networks, indexed by Sk ∈
S = {S1,S2, . . . ,SK}, with the mobile-user Sk attempting to
transmit information to the BS. We assume that all the CEUs
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:23:07 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
can only access for Rl, ∀ Rl ∈ R = {R1,R2, . . . ,RN}, with
|R| = N, where | · | indicates the cardinality of a set. Without
loss of generality, we only study the optimal access in single-
relay-action, i.e., each CEU is relayed by only one NCEU.
In addition, we also assume that the number of CEUs is no
longer than that of NCEUs, i.e., N ≥ K.
The channels of cooperative communications are assumed
to experience quasi-static block fading, i.e., the channel co-
efficients from the CEUs to the NCEUs, and that from the
NCEUs to the BS remain constant during each time slot, but
may vary from one to another [15]. In line with [16], we
take the amplify-and-forward (AF) cooperation protocol as
an example. This is mainly motivated by the following two
factors. Firstly, the AF strategy has lower hardware complexity
than the decode forward (DF) startegy and is more suitable for
mobile terminals. Secondly, the temporary relay adopting the
AF does not require any priori information on its received
signal and can be easily implemented. Therefore, AF strategy
is employed at NCEUs, and for each CEU Sk ∈ S, the
cooperative transmission consists of two phases. We denote the
instantaneous received SNR between Sk and Rn by γ(R)
k,n, for
source Sk in phase 2 as γ(R)
k,ψ(k),d, from the direct transmission
at the BS in phase 1 by γ(D)
k,k , where ψ(k) : S 7→ R is a generic
function that assigns each CEU with Sk as its cooperating
relay access node.
B. Cooperative D2D Communication
In Phase 1, source node (i.e, CEU) Sk broadcasts its
information signal to both each Rn and the BS. Therefore,
the received signals at the BS d and the NCEU Rn can be
respectively expressed as
y
(D)
k,d =
√
PkG
(D)
k,dx+ n
(D)
k,d , (1)
y
(R)
k,n =
√
PkG
(R)
k,nx+ n
(R)
k,n, (2)
where Pk represents the transmit power at the CEU Sk, x
is the broadcast signal with unit energy at the source device,
G
(R)
k,n and G(D)
k,d are the channel gains from CEU Sk to the relay
NCEU Rn and that to the BS d, respectively, n(D)
k,d and n(R)
k,n
are the additive white Gaussian noise (AWGNs). Without loss
of generality, we assume that the noise power is the same for
all the links and is denoted by σ2. We also assume that the
transmission frame length is small compared with the channel
coherence time such that all the channel gains are stable over
the time of interest. Without the help of NCEUs, the SNR that
results from the direct transmission at the BS in Phase 1 can
be written as
γ
(D)
k,k =
PkG
(D)
k,d
σ2
, (3)
and the achievable rate of the direct transmission is
r
(D)
k,d = B log2
(
1 + αγ
(D)
k,k
)
, (4)
where α is a constant capacity gap specified as α =
− 1.5
ln(1.5PBER)
[17], PBER is the target BER.
In Phase 2, relay device (i.e, NCEUs) Rn amplifies and
forwards it to the BS with transmitted power Pn, the received
signal at the BS d is
y
(R)
n,d =
√
PnG
(R)
n,dx
(R)
n,d + n
(R)
n,d, (5)
where
x
(R)
n,d =
yR
k,n∣∣∣y(R)
k,n
∣∣∣ , (6)
is the unit-energy transmitted signal from NCEU Rn to the
BS d, G(R)
n,d is the channel gain from NCEU Rn to the BS d
and n
(R)
n,d is the received noise. Substituting (1) into (6), we
can rewrite the received signa (5) as
y
(R)
n,d =
√
PnG
(R)
n,d
(√
PkG
(R)
k,nx+ n
(R)
k,n
)
√
PkG
(R)
k,n + σ2
+ n
(R)
n,d.
(7)
From (7) we can get the relayed SNR for CEU Sk in Phase
2 as
γ
(R)
k,ψ(k),d =
Pψ(k)PkG
(R)
ψ(k),dG
(R)
k,ψ(k)
σ2
(
Pψ(k)G
(R)
ψ(k),d + PkG
(R)
k,ψ(k) + σ2
) . (8)
Therefore, using (4) and (8), we can calculate the achievable
rate at the BS d. At a given transmission time, the achievable
rate of CEU Sk is
r
(R)
k,ψ(k),d =
1
2
B log2
(
1 + αγ
(D)
k,k + αγ
(R)
k,ψ(k),d
)
, (9)
where the coefficient 1
2 is due to the fact that cooperative
transmission with the help of relay user utilizes only half of
the resources (e.g., time slots, frequency bands).
C. Blockchain Usage in Cooperative D2D Communications
The above procedures in traditional cooperative D2D com-
munications may not provide strict means of data security
and privacy protection. Unlike the traditional relay selection
process in the cooperative D2D communication, the probe-
response messages and the optimal relay selection profile are
merged into transactions in BC-base structure. Specifically,
in the probing phase, we first propose a scheme using BC
technology as a probe-response channel. In the decision mak-
ing phase, after we have identified the potential relays, we
need to find a proper NCEU for each CEU, especially when
it has more than one candidate NCEUs and these NCEUs are
candidates for reusing for more than one CEU. In addition, the
final optimal relay selection profile is also stored on a block
as a transaction.
1) Matching Game Formulation: We formulate the decision
making phase as a two-side matching game, in Section IV,
we define the utility function, which is the key concept in
matching game. We assume that only one NCEU can be
used per CEU. However, to get help from the NCEU, the
CEU should have enough digital currency payments. Likewise,
the CEU needs to rank all the NCEUs who give response
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:23:07 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
messages. Therefore, our design corresponds to a one-to-
one matching given by the tuple {S,R,≻S ,≻R}. Here,
≻S, {≻S}S∈S and ≻R, {≻R}R∈R represent the set of
preference relations of CUEs and NCEUs, respectively. In line
with [18], we formally define the matching as follows.
Definition 1: A matching µ is defined by a function from
the set S ∪ R into the set of elements of S ∪ R such that
S = µ(R) if and only if R = µ(S).
2) BC-Based Relay Selection Scheme: Most BC implemen-
tations are devoted to optimize the decentralized currency
models. For instance, recent work in [19], [20] presented a
new cryptocurrency on the basis of bitcoin, which improves the
scalability and flexibility of cryptocurrencies. Aside from the
aforementioned cryptocurrencies, many BC implementations
including, internet of things [21], robotic swarm system [22],
secure logs [23], Ethereum [12] and Hyperledger Fabric [24]
and so on. With any of the above three BC implementations
as a basis, we can implement as follows. (1) The local storage
device is an integral part of each UE, which can be used
to store some of the transactions generated by the disjoint
parties (i.e., CEU party and NCEU party). (2) We need any
form of digital currency on the Ethereum for payment to relay
forwarding service, since all the transactions are generated in
the Ethereum platform. (3) UEs must periodically change their
public key.
In Fig. 2, the main steps of the proposed scheme are shown
and explained in more detail as the following.
NCEU
CEU
Probe-Response 
Phase
Broadcasting  
Wallet address
Transmitted data size
Public key
Probing 
message
Retrive request  
Broadcasting 
Response 
message 
Permission 
confirmation 
Confirmed probing message 
Retrive reply  CEU Sm
NCEU 
lR
CCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCEU
Potential relays 
confirmation 
Fig. 2: The proposed blockchain-based peer selection scheme.
• In the probing phase: First, CEUs prepare probing mes-
sages with their wallet addresses (created by the public
key), the size of the transmission data, and their public
keys.
• Then, CEUs broadcast the messages, by recording the
probing messages as transactions.
• The NCEUs decide whether to respond to the request,
depending on their transmission capacity and the confir-
mation results of the CEUs (i.e, verify that the CEUs have
enough digital currency). Once they decide to respond to
the request, the NCEUs will prepare the reply messages.
• Then, the confirmed probing messages are signed by the
NCEUs and destined for the corresponding source nodes.
• If the CEUs receive any feedback message destined to
them, they enter the decision making phase.
• In the decision making phase: The CUEs process the
feedback messages and obtain the corresponding poten-
tial feasible NCEUs. The collision-free relay selection
can be formulated as a two-side matching game, then we
define the utility functions for both parties (the details
are given in the next section), and finally the preference
profiles of both parties can be obtained.
Notably, the proposed relay selection scheme uses the
Ethereum platform. The public key information can be exploit-
ed by the CEUs to receive and process the reply messages with
their own address, since the wallet address information are en-
capsulated into transactions in Phase 1. Moreover, transactions
are broadcasted into the network for any participating user to
authenticate. It is attached to the chain if all the transactions
in a new block pass the authentication process. With the help
of this structure, relay selection process for the CEUs can
reduce the communication and computation burden of the BS
since the probe-response information is directly sent to the
UEs rather than passing the messages through central manager
(i.e., the BS). Aside from this, the proposed relay selection
scheme can achieve high level of effective cooperative D2D
communications, while guarantee both the privacy of CEUs
and the instant payment for the relay forwarding service. We
describe them in this order.
• High level of successful cooperative D2D communica-
tions: the proposed scheme is implemented on the top of
a BC and uses the Ethereum platform, thus the network
structure follows the P2P topologies. Moreover, in the
proposed relay selection scheme, we remove the central
manager (i.e., BS) and the probe-response processes are
verified and authenticated by all the participating users in
the network. The record of these processes is shared to
all the participating users in the network. The distributed
nature of BC makes a modification to the transactions on
the participating users to be meaningless. Another char-
acteristic of the proposed scheme is decentralized, which
mainly refers to the management of the public ledger,
i.e, all the participating users jointly maintain the public
ledger. By combining BC and two-side matching scheme,
the transactions recorded on the BC can provide a trusted
“history contribution” of relay forwarding service. The
verifiability of “history contribution” helps the CEUs to
timely update their public key and reject the feedback
messages from the malicious NCEUs. In addition, it also
helps the CEUs to choose more reliable NCEUs, so
as to achieve high level of successful cooperative D2D
communications.
• High level of privacy protection of CEUs: the proposed
scheme security mainly comes from the removal of
centralized authentication mechanism, i.e., the public key
is used by all the participating users for verifying each
transaction. Moreover, the periodic variability of public
key (i.e., the user identity ) can offer a high level of
privacy protection.
• Distributed payment on time: The proposed coopera-
tive D2D communication uses incentive mechanism and
charges on the basis of services provided by NCEUs. It
should be noted that the service ledgers (i.e., the CEUs’
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:23:07 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
payment sequence) are available to all the participating
nodes. BC can ensure that every transaction is document-
ed, which helps the NCEUs to validate whether the CEUs
have enough digital currency.
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS
In this section, the performance evaluation of BC-based
relay selection scheme was carried out using simulations. This
section starts with the simulation assumptions and setup. The
comparison of utility results between the proposed scheme and
the traditional matching scheme is demonstrated in the second
part.
A. Method for Relay Selection
We assume that any CEU Sk,∀ Sk ∈ S has enough digital
currency to pay for the relay forwarding service of any NCEU
Rn, ∀ Rn ∈ R. Once the probe-reply transactions between
CEUs and NCEUs are obtained in the probing phase. The
next step is to decide the optimal relay access sequence by
two-side matching theory. The motivation for using matching
theory for the relay selection problem is that it can tackle the
combinatorial problems and achieve a distributed solution [25].
Inspired by [18], the relay selection procedure is formulated
as a two-side matching game, then matching is performed by
the two sets of players (e.g., CUEs party and NCEUs party)
using preference profiles. The preference profile for the CEUs
is based on the following preference function of the achieved
data rate to cost ratio on NCEU Rn as
uk(n) =
rk,n,d
bnk
, (10)
where bnk is the payment of CEU Sk access to NCEU Rn.
Similarly, each NCEU Rn also needs to have a preference
profile that ranks all the validation CEUs according to its pref-
erence function. By using a two-side matching game for our
problem, we can guarantee successful cooperative transmission
by the CEU defined preferences. However, how to motivate
NCEUs to serve as relays is a main critical problem. One of
the efficient solutions is to pay for each relay service. Then,
the preference function of NCEU is given by
un(k) = bnk × Qk
rk,n,d
, (11)
where Qk is the size of CEU Sk’s transmission data.
In line with [26], in our simulations, we always assume that
there are N NCEUs to provide enough available temporary
relays. For each step we increase ms to a total of 10 + N,
with ms = 10 initially where N provides enough NCEUs
for providing enough available relays. According to the BC-
enabled relay access protocol in Section III-B, without loss
of generality, there are malicious users in both the CEU party
and the NCEU party.
10 20 30 40 50
Network size
T
h
e
 u
ti
li
ty
 v
a
lu
e 
o
f 
C
U
E
s
10
T
h
e
 u
ti
li
ty
 v
a
lu
e 
o
f 
C
U
E
s
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
BC-Enabled Matching Algorithm
The conventional Algorithm
Random Algorithm 
BC-Enabled Matching Algorithm
The conventional Algorithm
Random Algorithm 
Fig. 3: The throughput of the CEUs vs. number of CEUs with
and without blockchain assistance, when there are malicious
users.
10 20 30 40 50
Network size
T
h
e
 u
ti
li
ty
 v
a
lu
e 
o
f 
 N
C
E
U
s
BC-Enabled Matching Algorithm
The conventional Algorithm
Random Algorithm 
BC-Enabled Matching Algorithmm
The conventional Algorithm
Random Algorithm 
T
h
e
 u
ti
li
ty
 v
a
lu
e 
o
f 
 N
C
E
U
s
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
Fig. 4: The payoff of the NCEUs vs. size of network with and
without blockchain assistance, when there are malicious users.
B. Performance Comparison
In order to evaluate the performance of the BC-enabled
relay selection method, we show the comparison in terms of
average utility under different networks sizes (i.e., the number
of joined CEUs), when there are malicious users. We compare
our proposed approach with two other approaches, which are
denoted as random access and the two-side matching scheme,
respectively.
In Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, we increase the network size (CEUs)
and observe the average utility by CEUs and the average pay-
off (profits) by NCEUs, respectively. Obviously, we can con-
clude that the achieved average utility/payoff by CEUs/NCEUs
in all the schemes increases with the network size. From the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:23:07 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
results we notice furthermore that, the BC-enabled matching
scheme can maintain high reliability and security compared
to the other schemes. The above advantages mainly due to
the verification and validation action in our proposed two-side
matching scheme.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, for the cooperative D2D communications,
we proposed the utilization of the BC features, according
to which CEUs are capable of establishing optimal NCEUs
selection profile in a verifiable manner. Specifically, in the
requesting phase, the CEU may broadcast a request message
embedded with its wallet address and the size of transmission
data, then its relay access right will be verified by the NCEU.
Once the feedback messages are received and processed by
the CEU, the next step is the decision making. The optimal
selection profile can be obtained by executing the knowledge
of potential relays (e.g., the responsive NCEUs) and two-side
matching theory. Moreover, both the request-reply messages
and the final optimal relay selection profile are recorded on
the BC. In the presence of the malicious user, the introducing
BC technology in cooperative D2D communications can not
only maximize system throughput, but also ensure high level
of privacy protection and data security.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported in part by the National Science
Foundation of China under Grant number 61671131, the
Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities
(No.ZYGX2018J092), International Science and Technology
Cooperation Project of Sichuan Province (No.2017HH0009),
and the open research fund of National Mobile Communica-
tions Research Laboratory Southeast University No.2017D16.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Osseiran et al., “Scenarios for 5G mobile and wireless communica-
tions: the vision of the METIS project,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 52,
no. 5, pp. 26-35, May 2014.
[2] A. Nosratinia, T. E. Hunter, and A. Hedayat, “Cooperative communica-
tion in wireless networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 42, no. 10, pp.
74-80, Oct. 2004.
[3] Y. Yang, H. L. Hu, J. Xu, and G. Q. Mao, “Relay technologies for
WiMAX and LTE-advanced mobile systems,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol.
47, no. 10, pp. 100-105, Oct. 2009.
[4] A. Bletsas, H. Shin, and M. Z. Win, “Cooperative communications with
outage-optimal opportunistic relaying,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun.,
vol. 6, no. 9, pp. 3450-3460, Oct. 2007.
[5] X. Ma, R. Yin, G. Yu, and Z. Zhang, “A distributed relay selection
method for relay assisted device-to-device communication system,” in
Proc. IEEE 23rd PIMRC, Sydney, NSW, Spet. 2012, pp. 1020–1024.
[6] S. M. A. Kazmi, N. H. Tran, W. Saad, H. Zhu et al., “Mode selection
and resource allocation in device-to-device communications: a matching
game approach,” IEEE Trans. Mobile Computing, vol. 16, no. 11, pp.
3126–3141, Mar. 2017.
[7] B. Panigrahi, R. Ramamohan, H. K. Rath, A. Simha, “Dynamic relay
selection and channel adaptive uplink for LTE device-to-device (D2D)
communication,” in Proc. IEEE, International Symposium on Personal,
Indoor, and Mobile Radio Communications, Valencia, Spain, Sept. 2016,
pp. 1–6.
[8] L. Atzori, A. Iera, G. Morabito, and M. Nitti, “The social internet of
things (SIoT)–when social networks meet the internet of things: concept,
architecture and network characterization,” Comput. Netw., vol. 56, no.
16, pp. 3594–3608, Nov. 2012.
[9] X. Chen, B. Proulx, X. W. Gong, and J. S. Zhang, “Exploiting social
ties for cooperative D2D communications: a mobile social networking
case,” IEEE Trans. Netw., vol. 23, no. 5, pp. 1471-1484, Oct. 2015.
[10] Y. Meng, C. X. Jiang, H. H. Chen, and Y. Ren, “Cooperative device-to-
device communications: social networking perspectives,” IEEE Netw.,
no. 3, vol. 31, pp. 38-44, Mar. 2017.
[11] Y. Meng, C. X. Jiang, Q. D. La, T. Q. S. Quek, and Y. Ren “Dy-
namic social-aware peer selection scheme for cooperative device-to-
device communications,” in Proc. Wireless Commun. Netw. Conf., San
Francisco, CA, USA, May 2017.
[12] G. Wood, “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger,” Ethereum Project Yellow Paper, 2014.
[13] S. Nakamoto, “A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” [Online]. Avail-
able: http://reed.cs.depaul.edu/lperkovic/csc536/lecture10/bitcoin.pdf
[14] D. Tse and P. Viswanath, “Fundamentals of Wireless Communication.”
Cambridge, U. K.: Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005.
[15] D. Feng, L. Lu, Y. Yuan-Wu, G. Y. Li, G. Feng, and S. Li, “Device-
to-device communications underlaying cellular networks,” IEEE Trans.
Commun., vol. 61, no. 8, pp. 3541-3551, Aug. 2013.
[16] B. Xie, W. A. Zhou, C. X. Hao, X. L. Ai, and J. D. Song, “A
novel bargaining based relay selection and power allocation scheme for
distributed cooperative communication networks,” in Proc. Veh. Techn.
Conf., Ottawa, ON, Canada, Sep. 2010, pp. 1-5.
[17] A. J. Goldsmith and S.-G. Chua, “Variable-rate variable-power MQAM
for fading channels”, IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 45, pp. 1218-1230,
Oct. 1997.
[18] S. M. Ahsan Kazmi, et al., “Mode selection and resource allocation in
device-to-device communications: a matching game approach,” vol. 16,
no. 11, pp. 3126-3141, Mar. 2017.
[19] Bitcoin source at GitHub.(Verified on 2017/4/23). [Online]. Available:
http://github.com/bitcoin/bitcoin
[20] G. Danezis and S. Meilejohn, “Centrally banked cryptocurrencies,” in
Proc. NDSS Symp., San Diego, CA. USA, May 2016, pp. 1-14.
[21] K. Christidis and M. Devetsikiotis, “Blockchains and smart contracts for
the internet of things,” IEEE Access, vol. 4, pp. 2292-2303, May 2016.
[22] E. C. Ferrer, “The blockchain: a new framework for robotic swarm
systems,” arXiv preprint arXiv: 1608.00695, 2016.
[23] B. Schneier and J. Kelsey, “Cryptographic support for secure logs on
untrusted machines,” USENIX Security, 1998.
[24] Hyperledger/fabric. (Verified on 2017/4/23). [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/hyperledger/fabric
[25] S. M. Ahsan Kazmi, N. H. Tran, W. Saad, L. B. Le, T. M. Ho, and C.
S. Hong, “Optimized resource management in heterogeneous wireless
networks,” IEEE Commun. Lett., vol. 20, no. 7, pp. 1397-1400, Jul.
2016.
[26] K. Kotobi and S. G. Bilén, “Blockchain-enabled spectrum access in cog-
nitive radio networks,” in Proc. IEEE Wirelss Telecommun. Symposium,
Chicago, IL, USA, Apr. 2017, pp. 1-6.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:23:07 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.