Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism
Value and Intelligence of Business
Models in Journalism
Manuel Goyanes, Marta Rodríguez-Castro and Francisco Campos-Freire
Abstract Added value and intelligence, both in strategies as well as in operating
and technical applications, are essential to reinforce trust and sustainability of busi-
ness models of old and new media. This chapter addresses these two areas in the
main conceptual and structural elements of business models in press, audiovisual
and digital platforms, taking into account the diversity of expressions: payment sys-
tems of physical, digital and mobile contents, premium, open access, bundle, native
and programmatic advertising, sponsorship, bartering, membership, crowdfunding,
foundations, events, YouTubers, influencers, data, augmented reality and artificial
intelligence, gamification, Internet of things and blockchain. The study of business
models also addresses different forms of creativity, innovation, entrepreneurship and
structure of organizations, funding systems, associations and relationswith receivers.
Keywords Business model · Added value · News companies · Digital platforms
1 Introduction
The emergence of the Internet has transformed the process of news production for
journalists (Mitchelstein and Boczkowski 2009; Deuze and Witschge 2018), con-
sumption habits of audiences (Antunovic et al. 2018), and the flow, presence and
reach of digital information. Journalists, audiences and news companies try to adapt
their skills, preferences and organization structures to the new digital challenges that
have impacted on their core activities (Aitamurto and Lewis 2013).
M. Goyanes (B)
Universidad Carlos III de Madrid, Madrid, Spain
e-mail: mgoyanes@hum.uc3m.es
M. Rodríguez-Castro · F. Campos-Freire
Universidade de Santiago de Compostela, Santiago de Compostela, Spain
e-mail: m.rodriguez.castro@usc.es
F. Campos-Freire
e-mail: francisco.campos@usc.es
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020
J. Vázquez-Herrero et al. (eds.), Journalistic Metamorphosis,
Studies in Big Data 70, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36315-4_13
171
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-36315-4_13&domain=pdf
mailto:mgoyanes@hum.uc3m.es
mailto:m.rodriguez.castro@usc.es
mailto:francisco.campos@usc.es
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-36315-4_13
172 M. Goyanes et al.
Online news, which are increasingly ubiquitous, atmospheric and market-
oriented, have relatively lost their value, which affects directly to the payment inten-
tion of consumers (Goyanes et al. 2018), affecting the business models and income
of most of online organizations (Myllylahti 2017; Cawley 2019).Within this context,
there is a growing concern about audience´s perception on the value and reason-why
of digital news. This study is intended to shed light on the perception of the value
of digital news within a market-oriented context and their effects in the approach of
new business models.
The article explores how audiences respond to the growing commodification
and standardization of online news. By revising the situation of press, the audio-
visual arena and digital platforms and their monetization models, we try to identify
audience’s attitudes towards digital news and the role of the Internet as amedia outlet.
The book chapter is structured as follows: first, we make a review of the under-
pinning theory of economics of digital information, linking it with the growing need
to charge for contents on the Internet, the payment intention of consumers and the
recent research on paywalls. This helps us to understand the commodification and
standardization process of digital information. Once the review is done, we shed light
on the diversity of business models for digital platforms and the audiovisual arena,
emphasizing the growing need to link their advances with the different forms of cre-
ativity, innovation and entrepreneurship of communication organizations around the
world. The study contributes to the growing research on the reach and morphology
of business models in the area of communication and its impact on consumption.
2 Standardization and Commodification of Digital Content
and Its Impact on the Intention of Pay Per Contents
In the last decades, newspaper readers and advertising contents have been decreasing
(Cawley 2019), while digital platforms have experienced a large increase. However,
despite the digital take-off, online advertising and subscription income do not offset
losses in printed press (Pickard and Williams 2014).
According to Edmonds (2017), US newspapers gained $1 in new digital advertis-
ing income for every $25 lost in printed advertising revenue. This positions digital
and printed news companies in a difficult situation, which forces them, inmany cases,
to implement pay-per-content strategies based on business models that invite readers
to pay (Bakker 2012). In fact, some suggest that paywalls are possible successful
business models to monetize digital content, following the success of companies
such as The New York Times, Financial Times and The Wall Street Journal (Benton
2018).
However, thesemedia outlets seem to bemore the exception than the rule. Besides,
applying a successful business model to another media company is, at least, a risky
operation. Most of news companies follow a trial-error based learning, adapting their
organization structures and value proposals to the business and income model that
best suit them (Arrese 2016).
Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism 173
Many companies had to cancel or postpone their paywalls and come back to free
models, due to their inability to convince readers of the need to pay per contents.What
lies behind this inability is, therefore, the creation of a valuable digital news’ offer
to put behind the wall. However, research on journalism suggests a standardization
process of news (Picard 2009; Carlson 2015; Goyanes and Rodríguez-Castro 2018),
especially on the Internet, which defies efforts of news companies to increase the
money valuation of readers and their payment intention.
The goal of the study is to offer a better understanding of business models for
digital platforms within a context of market-oriented and standard offer. The concept
of market-oriented information or commodification refers to the process where news
pass from being “products that satisfy individual and social needs to be products
whose value is established by what they can bring to the market” (Mosco 2009: 132).
On this basis, the newsoffer becomes generally a subsidized product–especiallywhen
it comes to online journals, as readers pay very little or nothing. At the same time,
third parties, most of them advertisers, are the main income source, which means
that the definition of quality is based more on “the most profitable popularity than
something based on the less-shared professional standards” (McManus 1992: 790).
Therefore, it can be presumed than a valuable and high-quality news produc-
tion, consumed by few readers, is ineffective for news companies. On the contrary,
low-quality but highly consumed news are not. Commodification of online news
has, therefore, a huge impact on the practice of journalism, which can be reflected,
especially, on commercial pressures (Goyanes and Rodríguez-Castro 2018) and the
report on social inequalities (McManus 1992).
This impact on commodification of news also permeates normative discussions
about the main objectives of news in particular and journalism in general (Picard
2009). If a commodity is considered a good sold at a price in the profit-making
market (Murdock 2011), then digital news could fit in well within this definition.
Many editors, indeed, consider that their business is to sell commodities, that is to
say, online news (Hantula 2015).
However, digital news also has a public function, reflected on the spirit of jour-
nalists to publish accurate and valuable information on public affairs and politics
(Tuchman 1978). Therefore, despite the consensus on the growing commodifica-
tion of the publishing business (Chen et al. 2015), journalism has to serve citizens,
providing them with impartial, neutral and trustworthy information (Deuze 2005).
Within this context, news companies are at the crossroads: on one side, they should
be profitable to be on the business, relying on advertising as the main income source
(McManus 1992), but they have at the same time the legitimate power to act as the
fourth power, “driven by the search of trust” (Fisher 2014).
To attract readers’ attention, news media use more and more sensational and
exacerbated headers and contents, which intentionally creates fake and low-quality
news (Chen et al. 2015). The commodification of online news therefore provides
new technical and tactical developments to encourage interest and attention of readers
when reading news, which are based on fraudulent strategies such as clickbait (Cable
and Mottershead 2018).
174 M. Goyanes et al.
In this regard, it could be said that clickbait is themost relevant result of the process
of commodification of news, rooted in an organizational culture aimed at attracting
readers’ attention and encourage visitors to click in a link, regardless its quality
and accuracy. Given that direct payments of readers have virtually disappeared and
advertising income became crucial (Barthel 2015), news media publish more and
more digital contents to generate dollars in advertising (Chen et al. 2015) at the
expense of informing citizens.
A potential solution to limit news commodification, as we mention, is the
implementation of pay-per-content strategies based on subscription models and
micro-payments (Geidner and D’Arcy 2015). However, as demonstrated in previ-
ous research (Chyi 2005), digital news has been characterized by a demand curve
at the price of zero. However, if the price increases even just a penny, the demand
falls below zero. As there are a lot of free substitutes, the cross-price elasticity is
high, so the free exchange envisaged by media outlets could result in a fall of the
quantity, as the substitution effect would be activated (Chyi 2005). Only when price
increases allow a sufficient subscription fee for the business development, pay-per-
content strategies will be effective, which will limit the commercialization of news
as a result of this process.
Also, the growing literature on standardization of news addresses mainly the
effects that not-unique products and therefore potentially replaceable–digital news–
could have on the demand when the price is greater than zero (Goyanes 2014; Chyi
2005; Picard 2009). Specifically, according to Picard (2009), both online and printed
news are homogenous products and, therefore, not-unique. This means that, within a
context of growing competence as the news business, digital news is fully and easily
replaceable (Chyi 2005).
However, considering the successful value proposals of digital newspapers such
as The Wall Street Journal and The Financial Times, there are some cases in which
the digital offer is unique and, therefore, difficult to replace. Rather than the stan-
dardization of the media industry is, therefore, the standardization of a large part of
digital news services. However, many media companies offer different value pro-
posals difficult to imitate, which make their offer special, unique and different from
competitors (Myllylahti 2017; Sjøvaag 2016).
As indirectly mentioned, the standardization of digital news is unavoidably linked
to the perceptions of readers on the value of the news–economic but also informative.
In this regard, journalists are ultimately responsible for turning facts into attractive,
formal and informative news, based on the standards established in their field (Deuze
2005; Fisher 2014). Newsrooms play a key role in the design of a valuable news
offer, capable of being captured later by media companies in the form of payment
transactions of readers–paywalls.
Unfortunately, as pointed out by Picard (2009), the profession of journalism has
become a commodity, and the professionalism of journalism and the teaching of
journalism have determined the values and rules of the news, have commodified the
product and have turn most of journalists into relatively interchangeable workers of
a factory of information. The process, increasingly encouraged by the recent crisis
in journalism and the instability of employment and professional conditions (Siles
Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism 175
and Boczkowski 2012; Ekdale et al. 2015; Goyanes and Rodríguez-Gómez 2018),
has determined the field for an increasingly similar news offer.
The consequences of standardization and commodification of digital news are
essentially the loss of pecuniary value but also informative value (Myllylahti 2017).
Recent market studies show that most readers are reluctant to pay for digital contents
(Newman et al. 2016) andmost of them also refuse future transaction. Specific factors
such as age, income, previous payment, interest for news and consumption patterns
are crucial to explain the phenomenon (an in-depth review may be found in Goyanes
2014; Fletcher and Nielsen 2017). Besides, the values of news such as exclusivity
and authorship are crucial elements in the configuration of their pecuniary value
(Goyanes et al. 2018).
Likewise, research on paywalls has shown themain strategies bymedia companies
to monetize digital contents. For instance, Sjøvaag (2016) analyzed three digital
Norwegian newspapers, showing that specialized content, such as local information,
is usually paid, while syndicated content and immediacy news tend to be opened.
Also, Myllylahti (2017) analyzed the main newspapers in Australia and identified
the news and opinion articles as the main content in newspapers’ paywalls.
Despite the existence of significant factors and values of news that, ultimately,
result in the payment of readers, there is a general consensus thatmost of the literature
on the intention of payment and paywalls actually investigates “the intention of not
paying” (Goyanes et al. 2018: 10). Within this context, most of citizens are free
consumers of digital news, as they take for granted their free access to information
services and, therefore, reinforce the tendency to consider news as a public good and,
as a result, develop a free culture on the Internet.
3 The Dominance of Digital Platforms: How to Monetize
the Algorithm
The current informative context as awhole–press, radio, television and digitalmedia–
is experiencing a series of transformations resulting from the emergence of digital
platforms. These platforms, among which are the GAFAN (Google, Amazon, Face-
book, Apple and Netflix) or what van Dijck et al. (2018) call the Big Five (the same
platforms, replacing Netflix for Microsoft), are reshaping the market of communi-
cation through dynamics of disruptive innovation (Christensen et al. 2015), which
modify both business models of traditional media companies and the conception and
development of contents and their consumption patterns.
The term digital platforms refers to their performance as a space of convergence
between multiple agents (Miguel and Casado 2016), as will be developed below,
and it is also the preferred denomination by platforms themselves. The choice is not
neutral, but obeys the intention of these disruptive companies to establish the criteria
from which to be judged and understood (Gillespie 2010), as well as regulated.
Platforms had previously chosen to call themselves ‘technology companies’ instead
176 M. Goyanes et al.
of ‘media companies’ to avoid their publishing responsibilities (Napoli 2015). Also,
due to their ability to connect other media and users, they are also called digital
intermediaries.
Generally, the business model of digital platforms is based on an infrastructure
where different agents converge; that is to say, they constitute multi-sided markets
with different players such as users, content producers and advertisers, among oth-
ers. Platforms expand bilateral and dominant markets which were so far of media
companies, composed by audiences and advertisers, to include also agents such as
advertising intermediaries and social institutions (Nieborg and Poell 2018).
The growth of these multi-sided markets depends on the development of effects,
that is to say, according to Nick Srnicek, “the more users are using a platform,
the more valuable that platform becomes for everyone” (2018: 46). This way, the
bigger the number of registered users using Facebook, the more appealing will Mark
Zuckerberg’s social network be for advertisers willing to insert ads in the news
feed, but also for media companies that want to expand their audiences through
the dissemination of contents via social media. Digital platforms should take into
account these effects of the network when designing their price structure through
cross-subsidization strategies, in such a way that the parts generate business through
the entrance of income (advertisers, for instance) to compensate those who access
services free of charge, such as social media users.
These dynamics generate different business models within the platforms from the
perspective of thefinal users, amongwhich three basic variants standout (Gabszewicz
et al. 2015): offer of free contents and services, therefore, looking for alternative
income; a model based on payment for access to contents (subscription, pay per
individual product, etc.),which can be also complementedwith other income sources;
and a third model that combines the first two, the freemium, in which the access to
a part of contents is free, but users have to pay to access the premium content.
Spotify represents this last model, as it offers free access to the whole cata-
logue, although with ads, and there is a premium version through subscription,
without pauses, with a better audio quality, the possibility to listen offline and the
removal of the shuffle-only mode. Meanwhile, Netflix has a business model based
on a three-monthly plan subscription. All of them offer free access to the complete
catalogue, with cheap rates and without commitment to remain, key elements for the
popularization of the on-demand service (Izquierdo-Castillo 2015).
Despite the different articulations of the business models, all of them place the
development and application of algorithms at the epicentre of their operations and
success. When the user accesses platforms and surfs them, generates a series of
information that platforms store and interpret through their algorithms, designed
to give meaning to big data and allow their economic exploitation. Thus, users’
data become a key element for the business model of platforms–that can use that
information to customize ads–and for articulating the service and contents offered
to users–through recommendation systems, prioritizing which contents will be more
relevant for each user according to their interests.
Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism 177
The use of algorithms brings innumerable advantages to platforms, but their use
also throws certain shadows. Bell and Owen, for instance, define the algorithm of
the Facebook News Feed as “the single most controversial, influential and secretive
algorithm in the world” (2017). As if it were the Coca-Cola formula, platforms keep
the design and concrete functioning of their algorithms secret, in part because an
increase in transparency around these formulas could negatively affect their business
models and damage the dynamics of innovation (Napoli 2015).
However, the secrecy that permeates platforms’ functioning, is a source of concern
for publishers, who want to disseminate their contents through these digital inter-
mediaries, due to the impossibility of designing strategies that guarantee the desired
impact on these platforms. Digital intermediaries have become the new gatekeepers
(Napoli 2015; Russell 2019), which results in the emergence of multiple challenges
over how to relate with them, how to adapt contents to be usable, and how to reach
a larger number of final users, and how to do it in such a way that their publishing
principles are not altered.
Social networks, for instance, present a dilemma to editors. Although the last
report from Reuters (Newman 2019) identifies a slight decrease in the consumption
of news through social networks–due in part to changes in the Facebook algorithm,
which prioritizes content of personal contacts at the expense of the exposure to
publishing contents, 36% of respondents use Facebook to get informed.
The high number of users that can be accessed by digital platforms, especially
if we take into account that many of them reach news contents incidentally while
spending time in them for other reasons (Fletcher and Nielsen 2018), multiply the
impact of contents, so that disseminating them through these intermediaries is too
tempting. However, a successful presence of media companies in these platforms lies
in adapting to their disruptive dynamics, based on engaging users to maximize the
time they spend on the platform and, therefore, also the amount of data they generate.
This results in clickbait strategies, in the production of potentially-viral contents and
even the mass propagation of fake news (Braun and Eklund 2019).
The relationship between publishers and platforms, therefore, is problematic. In
the context of platforms, and due to the commodification of the news–referred to in
Sect. 2 of this chapter–each piece of news has value by itself and can individually
circulate through different digital intermediaries. It breaks with the traditional vision
of newsrooms and the prioritization of information according to editorial criteria
(Nieborg and Poell 2018). This unbundling, therefore, is one of the most direct
effects of digital intermediaries in the production and consumption of news contents,
and forces news companies to reflect on the online circulation of published pieces
(van Dijck et al. 2018).
Within the framework of unbundling and the relationship between publishers and
platforms, the former can opt for two strategies in the dissemination of their contents
(van Dijck et al. 2018). On the one hand, they can design networked strategies, based
on the dissemination of links and headlines on different platforms with the aim of
redirecting audiences to the media website, which allows the media to record the
impact of each piece and monetize these visits.
178 M. Goyanes et al.
On the other hand, there are native strategies, in which news content is offered
directly on platforms, without the need to go somewhere else. This strategy implies
that the media company, which is responsible for the editorial content, yields power
over the management of the data registered by users and the monetization of the
content.
These platforms,which initially tried tomove away from this editorial perspective,
have become more and more interested in disseminating news contents, especially if
it is done in a native way. This way, different services oriented to reach dissemination
agreements with other media companies emerged. In 2015, Facebook launched its
function Instant Articles, which allows quick access to contents produced by third
parties, with a visual and immersive format. These articles are accessible without
quitting the platform and offer producers different alternatives for monetization.
Other examples of tools linked to native strategies would be Discover from Snapchat,
Google’s Accelerated Mobile Pages, Apple News and the Live options on Facebook
and Instagram.
The offer of this kind of functionalities opens up new possibilities to reach audi-
ences, places publishers in a difficult situation, as they have fear of missing out
something (Nielsen and Ganter 2018). Companies can opt for the adoption of native
strategies for fear of getting list or being late to a good possibility of increasing
their impact, though these strategies entail a lack of audience data, the migration
of advertising revenues and even the dissolution of the publisher’s brand (Bell and
Owen 2017).
Although digital platforms occupy, judging by their economic results and their
relationship with content producers, an omnipresent position, it is worth pointing out
some of their limitations that contribute to nuance their hegemony. On the one hand,
it can be glimpsed a certain saturation in the market of digital intermediaries. This
phenomenon can be seen, for instance, in on-demand services.
One of the keys of Netflix’s success was to allow access to its catalogue for a
very economic rate, which resulted in an expansion throughout the world. How-
ever, it is unfeasible for a consumer to pay the subscription of all similar emerg-
ing services (Amazon Prime, HBO Go, Hulu, Apple TV, Movistar+, etc.), so there
is a fragmentation of the market that leads to an increase in competition between
platforms.
On the other hand, both this kind of on-demand services and the different social
networks are facing challenges as regards regulation. Despite their attempts to evade
publishing responsibilities, social networks such as Facebook,which are immersed in
scandals such as the interferences andproliferation of fake news in theUSpresidential
elections in 2016 (Bell and Owen 2017), will have to rethink their governance,
aspiring to a balance between commercial interests and public interest (Napoli 2015).
As regards audiovisual digital platforms in the European Union, since the entry
into force of the new Audiovisual Media Services Directive (European Parliament
2018), they are now forced to include in their catalogues at least 30% of European
productions. The dominance of digital platforms, therefore, is starting to be regulated
under the premises of public interest and cultural protection.
Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism 179
4 Journalism of Public Interest and Sustainability
The concept of business model includes a set of elements that, apart from the value
proposal of the product or service, covers the needs and demands of customers or
users, the conditions of the market in which it is developed, distribution channels,
relationship system, resources and key associations, income sources and prices as
well as structures and kind of costs (Osterwalder et al. 2005). The above-mentioned
disruptive innovations in digital production and distribution have relativized or deval-
ued the prioritization of the value proposal of the content in exchange for gratuity,
data and sum of long-tail inputs (Anderson 2009).
The digital business model, which transformed the distribution channel and the
commercialization based on the access to million customers, disrupted and damaged
the model of traditional media against metamedia of the web 2.0 (Manovich 2005;
Campos-Freire 2015). After that disruptive crisis, the reaction of traditional media
can hardly be to do the same, but rather to reaffirm and reinforce the social value
proposal of their contents. That is, beyond exchange and use values of the news
activity, which are standardized in the commercialization of commodity models,
there is the recovery of the social value of journalism and of quality entertainment
contents. It is an indispensable value in journalism and in the media as a resource
of public interest for the balance of the democratic and informative ecosystem of
modern societies.
This social value, difficult to measure but essential for credibility and trust, as
pointed out by Paul Steiger, creator ofProPublica, it is not just what the public wants,
but the synthesis of the public interest and its utility for the public (Puentes-Rivera
et al. 2018). It is a complex concept, but essential, for the relevance and recovery
of news companies in the 21st century, as foreseen by Picard (2012). Some authors
have also added nuances and adjectives to this journalism of public interest and
social value (De Zúñiga and Hinsley 2013; Ferrucci 2015; Drok and Hermans 2016;
Hermans andGlydensted 2019): good journalism, investigative journalism, construc-
tive journalism, solutions journalism, commitment journalism, slow and contrastive
journalism, etc.
The complexity in assessing the social value of the newsmakes their monetization
and, therefore, the sustainability of the business model in the above-mentioned dis-
ruptive ecosystem. In the heart of that complexity lies the recovery of trust, interest
and the overcoming of that tiredness of news registered by surveys and reports on
the era of abundance of information (Palmer and Toff 2018).
In the search for a remedy to the crisis of traditional media, which took with it
thousands of printed publications in western countries, companies and many forced
entrepreneurs coming from news staff and then fired, started to propose alternatives
to find solutions for a sustainable journalism. Also, public debates were opened in
parliamentary and government institutions to seek solutions to the crisis of journal-
ism, inasmuch as it is a source of mediation and legitimacy of modern democracies,
especially as regards a new expanded concern about the virality of fake news in
digital networks and the Internet.
180 M. Goyanes et al.
From 2017, France, Germany, Italy and the UK have pioneered regulation on
fake news in Europe. After two years of debate at the European Parliament, the
European Union approved in November 2018 the Directive 1808 on the provision
Audiovisual Services, which regulates platforms against traditional broadcasters.
In 2019, another Directive on intellectual property was agreed to protect creators’
and journalists’ copyright as regards digital networks and Internet infomediaries.
The new Creative Europe program for 2021–2027 includes into their projections to
support the press and the traditional media sector as relevant activities of cultural
and creative industries.
In different states, France plays a pioneering role in support policies to the press,
based on an integral industrial concept, which covers its entire value chain, from
publishing, printing, distribution and delivery of publications to readers. In 2008,
Nicholas Sarkozy opened the institutional debate on the ‘general states of the press’,
in charge of people from society and the industry, to present a report of measures
to the government and the Senate and thus regulate public aids to the sector, which
amounted to 284 million in 2009. Subsidies to the press have been maintained with
different lines, reports and assessment of the most critical aspects. The last one was
made by Schwartz and Terraillot (2018) for theMinistry of Economy and Finance on
the distribution system of the French press, which proposes ten reform and support
measures.
Also, the UK government, previous commitment of the Prime Minister Theresa
May before the main publishers of the country, commissioned a study on the future
of journalism and the sector to Professor Francess Cairncross (2019), who concluded
the report with nine support proposals to the sustainability of the sector.
Other countriesmaintain andpromote institutional policies for the sustainability of
the press and the future of journalism. These include the Netherlands, Denmark, Nor-
way, the Flemish region of Belgium, Canada and Australia. In the last two countries,
reports, proposals for measures and debates were made in their respective parliamen-
tary chambers, highlighting the need to support local information, their newspapers
and journalism as a service of general interest (Vine 2017). Some European countries
have begun to apply digital taxes to the platforms to contribute with these funds to
the sustainability of precarious means of information of general interest.
In the United States, the support to the press and newspapers, which suffered a
massive hemorrhage of headings and job destruction, is channeled through founda-
tions and local institutions. A quarter of the respondents surveyed in the trend study
by Newman (2019) from the Reuters Institute consider that public or institutional
support is necessary to maintain quality journalism; 29% of them believe that they
could come from foundations and non-profit organizations, 18% expect them to be
from the contribution of digital platforms and 11% say that from governments.
Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism 181
5 Conclusions
Social value and innovation, in the form of knowledge and creative intelligence,
are the heart of the journalism business model. Public service media organizations,
following the strategy of its main state and regional or regional models of European
states, try to revive and combine their original principles of the triad–to inform,
to educate and to entertain–by John Reith when the BBC emerged, with the six
core values established by the EBU in 2014–universality, quality, independence,
diversity, accountability and innovation–(EBU 2014) and the adaptation to other
new emerging values of the new society. Journalism and quality information are an
essential requirement for public service media.
The sustainability of journalism and quality information, in addition to the protec-
tion of the traditional dual system of generating resources from the sale of contents
and advertising, also requires institutional support as well as adaptation to the model
of metaservices in which they fit, provided that contribute and not deteriorate their
value, the various forms of income–product, digital and mobile content, premium,
open access, programmatic and native advertising, sponsorship, bartering, mem-
bership, crowdfunding, foundations, public aid, events, augmented reality, artificial
intelligence, gamification, Internet of things, blockchain, etc.
Acknowledgements The chapter belongs to the activities of the research project RTI2018-096065-
B-I00, from the Spanish State ProgramR+Doriented to the challenges of society from theMinistry
of Science, Innovation and Universities (MCIU), Agencia Estatal de Investigación (AEI) and the
European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) on New values, governance, funding and public
media services for the Internet society: European and Spanish contrasts.
References
Aitamurto T, Lewis SC (2013) Open innovation in digital journalism: examining the impact of open
APIs at four news organizations. New Media Soc 15(2):314–331
Anderson Ch (2009) La economía de la larga cola. Empresa Activa, Barcelona
Antunovic D, Parsons P, Cooke TR (2018) ‘Checking’and googling: stages of news consumption
among young adults. Journalism 19(5):632–648
Arrese Á (2016) From gratis to paywalls: a brief history of a retro-innovation in the press’s business.
Journalism Stud 17(8):1051–1067
Bakker P (2012) Aggregation, content farms and Huffinization: The rise of low-pay and no-pay
journalism. Journalism Pract 6(5–6):627–637
Barthel M (2015) Newspapers: fact sheet. Retrieved from http://www.journalism.org/2015/04/29/
newspapers-factsheet
Bell E, Owen T (2017) The platform press: how Silicon Valley reengineered journalism. C Jour-
nalism Rev. Retrieved from https://www.cjr.org/tow_center_reports/platform-press-how-silicon-
valley-reengineered-journalism.php
Benton J (2018) The New York times is on pace to earn more than $600 million in digital this year,
halfway to its ambitious goal. Retrieved from http://www.niemanlab.org/2018/11/the-new-york-
times-is-on-pace-to-earn-more-than-600-million-in-digital-this-year-halfway-to-its-ambitious-
goal/
http://www.journalism.org/2015/04/29/newspapers-factsheet
https://www.cjr.org/tow_center_reports/platform-press-how-silicon-valley-reengineered-journalism.php
http://www.niemanlab.org/2018/11/the-new-york-times-is-on-pace-to-earn-more-than-600-million-in-digital-this-year-halfway-to-its-ambitious-goal/
182 M. Goyanes et al.
Braun JA, Eklund JL (2019) Fake news, real money: ad tech platforms, profit-driven hoaxes, and
the business of journalism. Digit Journalism 7(1):1–21. https://doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2018.
1556314
Cable J, Mottershead G (2018) Can I click it? yes you can: sport journalism, twitter, and clickbait.
Ethical Space Int J Commun Ethics 15(1/2):69–80
Cairncross F (2019) A sustainable future for journalism. Retrieved from https://www.gov.uk/
government/publications/the-cairncross-review-a-sustainable-future-for-journalism
Campos-Freire F (2015) Adaptación de los medios tradicionales a la innovación de los metamedios.
El Profesional de la Información 24(4):441–450
Carlson M (2015) The robotic reporter: automated journalism and the redefinition of labor,
compositional forms, and journalistic authority. Digit Journalism 3(3):416–431
Cawley A (2019) Digital transitions: the evolving corporate frameworks of legacy newspaper
publishers. Journalism Stud 20(7):1028–1049
Chen Y, Conroy NJ, Rubin VL (2015) Misleading online content: recognizing clickbait as false
news. In: Proceedings of the 2015 ACM on workshop on multimodal deception detection, ACM,
15–19
Christensen CM, Raynor ME, McDonald R (2015) What is disruptive innovation. Harv Bus Rev
93(12):44–53
Chyi HI (2005) Willingness to pay for online news: an empirical study on the viability of the
subscription model. J Media Econ 18(2):131–142
De Zúñiga H, Hinsley A (2013) The press versus the public.What is “good journalism”? Journalism
Stud 14(6):926–942
DeuzeM (2005)What is journalism? professional identity and ideology of journalists reconsidered.
Journalism 6(4):442–464
Deuze M, Witschge T (2018) Beyond journalism: theorizing the transformation of journalism.
Journalism 19(2):165–181
Drok N, Hermans L (2016) Is there a future for slow journalism? the perspective of younger users.
Journalism Pract 10(4):539–554
EBU (2014) Public service values, editorial principles and guidelines
EdmondsR (2017)Newspapers get $1 in newdigital ad revenue for every $25 in print ad revenue lost.
Retrieved from https://www.poynter.org/reporting-editing/2012/newspapers-print-ad-losses-are-
larger-than-digital-ad-gains-by-a-ratio-of-25-to-1/
Ekdale B, Tully M, Harmsen S et al (2015) Newswork within a culture of job insecurity: Producing
news amidst organizational and industry uncertainty. Journalism Pract 9(3):383–398
European Parliament (2018) Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European parliament and of the
council of 14 November 2018 amending directive 2010/13/EU on the coordination of certain
provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning
the provision of audiovisual media services (Audiovisual Media Services Directive) in view of
changing market realities
Ferrucci P (2015) Public journalism nomore: the digitally native news non-profit and public service
journalism. Journalism 6(7):904–919
FisherM (2014)Who cares if it’s true?. Retrieved from http://www.cjr.org/cover_story/who_cares_
if_its_true.php?page=all
Fletcher R, Nielsen RK (2017) Paying for online news: a comparative analysis of six countries.
Digit Journalism 5(9):1173–1191
Fletcher R, Nielsen RK (2018) Are people incidentally exposed to news on social media? a
comparative analysis. New Media Soc 20(7):2450–2468
Gabszewicz JJ, Resende J, Sonnac N (2015) Media as multi-sided platforms. In: Picard RG, Wild-
man SS (eds) Handbook on the economics of the media. Edward Elgar Publishing, Cheltenham
and Northampton, pp 3–35
Geidner N, D’Arcy D (2015) The effects of micropayments on online news story selection and
engagement. New Media Soc 17(4):611–628
Gillespie T (2010) The politics of “platforms”. New Media Soc 12(3):347–364
https://doi.org/10.1080/21670811.2018.1556314
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/the-cairncross-review-a-sustainable-future-for-journalism
https://www.poynter.org/reporting-editing/2012/newspapers-print-ad-losses-are-larger-than-digital-ad-gains-by-a-ratio-of-25-to-1/
http://www.cjr.org/cover_story/who_cares_if_its_true.php%3fpage%3dall
Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism 183
Goyanes M (2014) An empirical study of factors that influence the willingness to pay for online
news. Journalism Pract 8(6):742–757
Goyanes M, Artero JP, Zapata L (2018) The effects of news authorship, exclusiveness and media
type in readers’ paying intent for online news: an experimental study. Journalism (forthcoming)
Goyanes M, Rodríguez-Castro M (2018) Commercial pressures in Spanish newsrooms: between
love, struggle and resistance. Journalism Stud 20(8):1088–1109
Goyanes M, Rodríguez-Gómez EF (2018) Presentism in the newsroom: how uncertainty redefines
journalists’ career expectations. Journalism (forthcoming)
Hantula K (2015) Four + one truths about paywalls. Retrieved from http://livinginformation.fi/en/
articles/four-plus-one-truths-about-paywalls
Hermans L, Gyldensted C (2019) Elements of constructive journalism: characteristics, practical
application and audience valuation. Journalism 20(4):535–551
Izquierdo-Castillo J (2015) El nuevo negocio mediático liderado por Netflix: estudio del modelo y
proyección en el mercado español. El Profesional de la Información 24(6):819–826
Manovich L (2005) El lenguaje de los nuevos medios de comunicación: la imagen en la era digital.
Paidós, Barcelona
McManus J (1992) What kind of commodity is news? Commun Res 19(6):787–805
McNairB (2000) Journalismanddemocracy.An evaluation of the political public sphere.Routledge,
London
Mitchelstein E, Boczkowski PJ (2009) Between tradition and change: a review of recent research
on online news production. Journalism 10(5):562–586
Miguel JC, Casado MÁ (2016) GAFAnomy (Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple): the big four
and the b-ecosystem. Dynamics of big internet industry groups and future trends. Springer, Cham,
pp 127–148
Mosco V (2009) The political economy of communication. Sage, London
Murdock G (2011) Political economies as moral economies: commodities, gifts, and public
goods. The handbook of political economy of communications. Wiley-Blackwell, Malden, pp
11–40
MyllylahtiM (2017)What content is worth locking behind a paywall? digital news commodification
in leading Australasian financial newspapers. Digit Journalism 5(4):460–471
Napoli PM (2015) Social media and the public interest: governance of news platforms in the realm
of individual and algorithmic gatekeepers. Telecommun Policy 39(9):751–760
NewmanN, Fletcher R, LevyDAL et al (2016) Reuters institute digital news report 2016. University
of Oxford, Oxford
NewmanN (2019) Journalism,media, and technology trends and predictions 2019, Reuters Institute
for the study of journalism. University of Oxford, Oxford
Nieborg DB, Poell T (2018) The platformization of cultural production: theorizing the contingent
cultural commodity. New Media Soc 20(11):4275–4292
Nielsen R, Ganter SA (2018) Dealing with digital intermediaries: a case study of the relations
between publishers and platforms. New Media Soc 20(4):1600–1617
Osterwalder A, Pigneur Y, Tucci C (2005) Clarifying business models: origins, present, and future
of the concept. Commun Assoc Inf Syst 16
Palmer R, Toff B (2018) From news fatigue to news avoidance. NiemanLab Predictions for Jour-
nalism 2019. Retrieved from https://www.niemanlab.org/2018/12/from-news-fatigue-to-news-
avoidance/?relatedstory
Picard RG (2009) Why journalists deserve low pay. Christ Sci Monit 19(9):1–6
Picard RG (2012) La creación de valor y el futuro de las empresas informativas. Por qué y cómo el
periodismo debe cambiar para seguir siendo relevante en el siglo XXI. Media XXI, Porto
Pickard V, Williams AT (2014) Salvation or folly? the promises and perils of digital paywalls. Digit
Journalism 2(2):195–213
Puentes-Rivera I, Campos-Freire F, López-García X (2018) Periodismo con futuro. Media XXI,
Lisbon
http://livinginformation.fi/en/articles/four-plus-one-truths-about-paywalls
https://www.niemanlab.org/2018/12/from-news-fatigue-to-news-avoidance/%3frelatedstory
184 M. Goyanes et al.
Russell FM (2019) The new gatekeepers: an Institutional-level view of Silicon Valley and the
disruption of journalism. Journalism Stud 20(5):631–648
Schwartz M, Terraillot F (2018) Dix propositions pour moderniser la distribution de la presse.
Rapport au ministre de l’Économie et des Finances et à la ministre de la Culture. Retrieved from
https://www.ladocumentationfrancaise.fr/var/storage/rapports-publics/184000497.pdf
Siles I, Boczkowski PJ (2012)Making sense of the newspaper crisis: a critical assessment of existing
research and an agenda for future work. New Media Soc 14(8):1375–1394
Sjøvaag H (2016) Introducing the paywall: a case study of content changes in three online
newspapers. Journalism Pract 10(3):304–322
Srnicek N (2018) Capitalismo de plataformas. Caja Negra Editora, Buenos Aires
Tuchman G (1978) Making News—a study in the construction of reality. The Free Press, New York
van Dijck J, Poell T, de Waal M (2018) The platform society: public values in a connective world.
Oxford University Press, New York
Vine P (2017)When is a journalist not a journalist?: negotiating a new form of advocacy journalism
within the environmental movement. Pac Journalism Rev 23(1):43–54
Manuel Goyanes Assistant Professor in the Department of Media and Communication at Car-
los III University (UC3 M) in Madrid. Dr Goyanes’ main research focus is in media management
and sociology of communication sciences. He was visiting fellow in the Department of Media
and Communications at the London School of Economics and Political Science. His work has
appeared in journals such as International Journal of Communication, Journalism Practice or
International Journal on Media Management.
Marta Rodríguez-Castro Ph.D. Candidate and predoctoral researcher at Universidade de Santi-
ago de Compostela. In her doctoral thesis she is studying Public Value Tests in Europe in order to
establish a set of quality indicators and to assess and discuss its possible introduction in Spain. She
was visiting fellow at the Center for Media, Data and Society in the Central European University
(Budapest, 2018).
Francisco Campos-Freire Full professor of Journalism in the Faculty of Communication Sci-
ences of Universidade de Santiago de Compostela. His main research lines are the management
of media companies, the study of the impact of social networks and innovation on traditional
media, and the funding, governance, accountability and transformation of European Public Ser-
vice Media. In the professional field, he has worked as editor and director in several Spanish
newspapers and television and radio companies.
https://www.ladocumentationfrancaise.fr/var/storage/rapports-publics/184000497.pdf
	Value and Intelligence of Business Models in Journalism
	1 Introduction
	2 Standardization and Commodification of Digital Content and Its Impact on the Intention of Pay Per Contents
	3 The Dominance of Digital Platforms: How to Monetize the Algorithm
	4 Journalism of Public Interest and Sustainability
	5 Conclusions
	References