Social games and Blockchain: exploring the Metaverse of Decentraland
Social games and Blockchain: exploring the
Metaverse of Decentraland
1st Barbara Guidi
Department of Computer Science
University of Pisa
Pisa, Italy
guidi@di.unipi.it
2nd Andrea Michienzi
Department of Computer Science
University of Pisa
Pisa, Italy
andrea.michienzi@di.unipi.it
Abstract—Online Social Networks gained a crucial role in peo-
ple’s everyday life, acting as the medium through which people
can interact with each other. The introduction of blockchain
technology prompted a new generation of social media based
on the concept of Non-Fungible Token (NFT) and other Web3
technologies, giving birth to the Metaverse. Decentraland is one
such platform, where users can explore a 3D virtual world and
communicate with each other. The main feature of Decentraland
is that the virtual world is divided into parcels, implemented
through NFTs, that can be traded among users and where owners
can create buildings or mini-games for other users to play with.
In this work, we explore the virtual world of Decentraland by
presenting the main details of the virtual world and by focusing
on the economic impact of NFT trading on the description of
the parcels. In detail, the parcel’s description can be used to
advertise the proximity of the parcel to infrastructures or special
projects to attract potential buyers. This paper’s findings show
the impact and the magnitude of this phenomenon, highlighting
entire quarters that adopt this technique throughout the map by
overriding the playful aspect of the platform.
Index Terms—Virtual Worlds, Metaverse, Blockchain, Non-
Fungible Token, Web3
I. INTRODUCTION
Online Social Networks (OSNs) are web services that play
a crucial role in terms of how people can socialise and
interact with each other. Thanks to their virtual nature, they are
able to shatter the physical barrier among people, leading to
their adoption on a worldwide scale. Current popular OSNs
are implemented on a centralised architecture, which was
identified as a possible source of problems, including scal-
ability, dependence on a provider, privacy [1], and poor value
redistribution [2], [3]. Thanks to their massive widespread,
these problems prompted researchers and developers to find
innovative solutions, in particular by exploiting decentralised
architectures. Fuelled by the revelations of the Cambridge
Analytica scandal [4], many Decentralised Online Social Net-
works (DOSNs) implemented on peer to peer architectures
have been proposed [5], [6]. However, it is only thanks to
the blockchain technology that OSN platforms experienced a
true revolution, in particular with the introduction of rewarding
systems and creating socioeconomic digital environments,
giving birth to the so-called Blockchain Online Social Medias
(BOSMs) [7].
The economic systems built upon the blockchain technology
rapidly evolved, and while in the beginning, they included
single fungible tokens, such as the case of Bitcoin, they
are now much more complex. For instance, the Ethereum
blockchain also includes standards for fungible tokens (ERC-
20), non-fungible tokens (ERC-721), and semi fungible to-
kens (ERC-1155). Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) in particular
gained massive momentum in many blockchain-based appli-
cations, including BOSMs, thanks to their ability to represent
the digital ownership of a unique (digital or physical) asset,
such as a piece of art, a collectable item, or an estate. The
introduction of NFTs boosted the development of BOSMs,
which started harnessing the full potential of blockchain to
offer more complex services. One such way is to create the
so-called Metaverse: a virtual space where users can socialise,
interact, play video games of all sorts, with an economic layer
supported by the blockchain and Web3 technologies.
Decentraland1 is one such example of a Metaverse where
the gaming and the social facets are extremely intertwined.
The platform runs on top of a Peer-to-Peer (P2P) network
that manages content distribution, and leverages the Ethereum
blockchain to implement a set of NFTs that represent the
objects in the game. The main feature of Decentraland is that
the virtual space is divided into parcels that are represented
by NFTs and users can buy and sell these NFTs to acquire the
property of the respective parcel. Owning a parcel grants the
right to build whatever the owner wants, including interactive
objects or mini-games. All users can traverse the virtual three-
dimensional world with their avatar, see and interact with
the things built by the other users. Decentraland is a mix of
concepts and it can be described as a Social virtual world.
Indeed, it is a game that includes a social media experience
where people can interact with each other in the virtual world.
The goal of Decentraland is to create an open-source system
for users to have social interactions and build whatever they
want within the decentralised virtual space.
In this paper, we explore Decentraland, focusing in par-
ticular on the parcels that constitute the virtual world of
the social game. The scarcity of the commodity creates an
interesting market, where users can acquire multiple parcels
1https://decentraland.org/
199
2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems Workshops (ICDCSW)
2332-5666/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICDCSW56584.2022.00045
20
22
 IE
EE
 4
2n
d 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 D
ist
rib
ut
ed
 C
om
pu
tin
g 
Sy
st
em
s W
or
ks
ho
ps
 (I
CD
CS
W
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
88
79
-2
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
DC
SW
56
58
4.
20
22
.0
00
45
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:23:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
and then try to find a buyer that is willing to pay more
for the same parcel. Not all parcels are available on the
market: some of them are reserved for roads, while others
are dedicated to large projects, such as public squares or
Chinese culture districts. The presence of these special parcels
affects the market, and make other parcels in close proximity
much more desirable. By studying each parcel’s description
through multiple analysis techniques, we show the magnitude
and impact of this phenomenon.
The rest of the paper is structured as follows. In Section
2, we review the relevant literature and other similar projects.
In Section 3, we describe the main features of Decentraland,
while in Section 4 we present a study concerning the land
parcels of the virtual world. Section 5 concludes the paper,
pointing to possible future works.
II. STATE OF THE ART
With the term Social Media, we refer to several different
platforms. Following the classification introduced in [8], there
are six different types of social media: Collaborative projects,
blogs and microblogs, content communities, social networking
sites, virtual game worlds, and virtual communities. The
Metaverse can be identified as a combination of at least two of
these categories: Social networking sites and the virtual game
world. Today, the goal is to create interoperable, secure, fast,
and decentralised metaverses. As concerns decentralisation,
the blockchain is today the most suitable technology, because
it allows, for example, to keep on a decentralised register
the information concerning the virtual world, such as the
properties of the avatar and other digital assets (clothes, real
estate, etc.).
Blockchain technology has been employed in several ways
in Blockchain-based Video Games (BVGs) [9]. The most
primitive form of BVG is perhaps represented by betting sys-
tems, such as Satoshi Dice2, TT Guess3, and Find Six Dice4,
which usually consist of correctly guessing the outcome of a
random process. With the evolution of blockchain technology,
also BVGs progressively changed. One of the most successful
examples of BVG is represented by Splinterlands5, which is a
collectable cards game, with the additional benefit that players
can trade their cards, and are awarded cryptocurrency for each
of their wins. The game is implemented on top of the Steem
blockchain [3], where each action performed by its users, such
as the games, is stored in the form of a JSON string in the
blockchain’s transactions.
With the advent of smart contracts and Non-Fungible To-
kens (NFTs), BVGs have evolved further to provide even
more functionalities and a more transparent behaviour towards
their users. The most important BVG that exploits these two
functionalities is CriptoKitties6 where users can collect, trade,
and breed virtual cats. CriptoKitties is implemented through a
2https://satoshidice.com/
3https://ttguess-b5023.web.app/
4https://www.findsixdice.com/
5https://splinterlands.com/
6https://www.cryptokitties.co/
digital asset, in the form of NFT, where each cat corresponds
to a unique token, and a smart contract that orchestrates the
breeding of the cats and the auctions needed to trade them.
A step further is represented by BVGs like Bombcrypto7, a
video game similar to Bomberman, where users can collect
unique heroes, and use them within the actual game. Also in
this case heroes are implemented as NFTs, and can be traded
alongside many other collectable decorative items.
Thanks to the introduction of Web3, BVGs are changing
towards more social environments, with a decentralisation of
the power and control, and the application of more immersive
technologies. BVGs in this direction are trying to build the
so-called Metaverse. Important approaches in this direction
include AlienWorlds8, Sandbox, Enjin, Bloktopia, Star Atlas,
and Decentraland.
III. THE VIRTUAL WORLD OF DECENTRALAND
Decentraland is the first Web3 virtual world where users
can create and monetise their content and applications. In
particular, they can buy, build, and sell digital estate, artworks,
or NFTs. The platform is community-owned and built on the
Ethereum blockchain. Thanks to its decentralised implemen-
tation, it is possible to play the game even without an actual
account, because all the information are managed through a
decentralised network and therefore available to anyone on the
Internet. However, to have access to all the functionalities of
Decentraland, it is mandatory to create an account, and link
a valid Ethereum digital wallet. Two different tokens are used
in Decentraland. These are:
• LAND. A non-fungible token (NFT) is used to define the
ownership of land parcels representing digital real estate.
• MANA. An ERC-20 token that can be used to buy virtual
goods and services in Decentraland.
A. The architecture
Decentraland has many layered components built using
Ethereum smart contracts. Its infrastructure is Peer-to-Peer
(P2P), and the Decentraland protocol refers to three layers
(Figure 1):
• Consensus layer: it maintains a ledger that tracks the
ownership of land parcels;
• Land content layer: Download assets using a decen-
tralised distribution system. For each parcel that needs to
be rendered, a reference to a file with the description of
the parcel’s content is retrieved from the smart contract.
The current solution uses BitTorrent and Kademlia DHT
networks by storing a magnet link for each parcel.
• Real-time layer: Enable users’ world viewers to connect
to each other.
Land content is referenced through a hash of the file’s
content which can be downloaded from BitTorrent or IPFS.
The downloaded file contains a description of all the elements
7https://bombcrypto.io/
8https://alienworlds.io/
9Whitepaper: https://decentraland.org/whitepaper.pdf
200
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:23:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1. Decentraland Architecture9
needed to render the scene. It also contains the URL of a ren-
dezvous server to coordinate connections between P2P users
that are exploring the tile simultaneously. The decentralised
distribution system allows Decentraland to work without the
need for any centralised server infrastructure. This allows the
world to exist as long as it has users distributing content,
shifting the cost of running the system to the same actors
that benefit from it. This decentralisation degree grants the
system a strong resistance to censorship. In the future, the
infrastructure cost can be covered by the use of protocols like
Filecoin. Finally, P2P connections are needed to provide social
interactions between users. To coordinate the bootstrap of
P2P connections, landowners will have to provide rendezvous
servers or understand that users will not be able to see each
other in their parcel.
B. The virtual space
The virtual space in Decentraland is called LAND, and
it is finite, reversible by players, and three dimensional.
LAND is implemented as a collection of NFTs maintained
in an Ethereum smart contract. The virtual space is divided
into smaller fragments, called parcels, that are squares of
side 16 meters, uniquely identified by a set of Cartesian
coordinates. Each parcel is an NFT and it is identified by
its location/coordinates on the virtual world. It also contains
information about its owner. Each parcel can be owned by
a single user and can be purchased using MANA, which
is the Decentraland’s ERC-20 cryptocurrency token. Aside
from coordinates and owner, a parcel also contains a content
description file or parcel manifest that describes and encodes
the content of the parcel. The owner can customise the
owned parcels, creating digital static art, 3D scenes, or even
applications and mini-games. A single user can group sets of
pairwise adjacent parcels, forming a so-called Estate. Owners
of parcels can organise themselves into communities and
put together some parcels to create a so-called District. By
organising parcels into Districts, the community can create
shared spaces with common interests and uses, like thematic
quarters of an imaginary city. The districts mechanic is the
main mechanism that includes a strong multiplayer aspect
in the management of parcels. The content of each parcel
that makes up the Decentraland virtual world is stored and
distributed via a decentralised network, Bittorrent [10] or IPFS
[11], by a set of approved nodes, as explained above. Due to
its cost, the Ethereum blockchain is used only to record parcel
ownership and MANA transactions.
Finally, each parcel varies in colour when inspected by the
official map scanner10 (see Figure 2). The light grey lines,
for instance, are roads and cannot be bought. Similarly, the
green areas are plazas owned by the Decentraland community,
whereas the light blue coloured parcels are available for sale
through the official Marketplace. The deep grey parcels are
owned by people for their own business. The parcels in Savoy
Blue represent the ones dedicated to particular projects. Figure
2 shows the 8 largest project districts with the respective
names. Among these project districts we find:
• Aetherian Project (8,008 parcels): a cyberpunk futuristic
city;
• Vegas City (6,776 parcels): a gambling district;
• Dragon city (6,485 parcels): a Chinese city with mixed
ancient and modern architecture;
• Fashion Street (2,098 parcels): a fashion district;
• District X (2,001 parcels): a red light district;
• University (1,550 parcels): the Decentraland university;
• Altix (1,197 parcels): a Chinese culture district, formerly
known as Dragon Kingdom, not related to Dragon City;
• Conference centre (799 parcels): a place to host large
virtual meetings.
Fig. 2. Map of Decentraland
10https://github.com/decentraland/atlas-server
10https://nftplazas.com/decentraland-districts
201
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:23:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
C. The Decentraland DAO
The Decentraland decision process is decentralised as well,
and it is managed by a Decentralised Autonomous Organisa-
tion (DAO). The Decentraland DAO owns the most important
smart contracts and assets that make up Decentraland, such as
the LAND Contract, the Estates Contract, Wearables, Content
Servers, and the Marketplace. Holders of MANA and LAND
tokens have access to the DAO and have voting rights in
the proposals. Through votes in the DAO, the community
can make changes to most of the aspects concerning how
Decentraland works. Each user participating in the DAO has
an associated Voting Power (VP) that is computed according
to the following rules:
• Each MANA token held, grants 1 VP;
• Each LAND token held, grants 2000 VP;
• Each estate held grants 2000 VP for each parcel in that
estate.
Each time a user casts a vote, the vote is weighted by the VP
of the user when the proposal was initially launched to prevent
users from exploiting their capital to influence the whole
application. The VP associated with each asset is determined
to give more voting power to the real contributors and the ones
with the greater personal stake, i.e. the owners of the parcels
of the virtual space. Decentraland’s DAO also owns a fund
of MANA, which is used to help sponsor community grants
and to help grow the Decentraland platform according to the
decisions and directions voted on by the community.
D. The smart contracts
Decentraland uses multiple smart contracts to manage its
aspects:
• The MANA contract: MANA is the fungible resource of
Decentraland, and is implemented as an ERC-20 token on
the Ethereum blockchain. It is mainly used to buy parcels,
but can also be used as currency for goods and services
on Decentraland.
• The LAND contract: This contract manages the NFTs
that represent the parcels of the virtual space. The DAO
is the owner of this contract, meaning that any changes or
modifications to that contract must be carried out through
the DAO.
• Catalyst nodes: The list of Catalyst nodes that serve
content and establish the P2P connections needed to keep
Decentraland’s virtual world running is also owned and
controlled by the DAO.
• Marketplace contracts: The Decentraland Marketplace
dApp makes use of several smart contracts to manage
the process of selling and bidding on LAND, Estates,
and other NFTs.
• Grants: The vesting contracts used to make recurring
payments as part of the DAO’s grant framework.
• Other contracts: other features managed by the respec-
tive contract are: estates, names, banned names, wear-
ables, and points of interest.
Fig. 3. Distribution of the parcel types.
All contracts, but the MANA contract, are owned by the
Decentraland’s DAO, meaning that the source code of these
smart contracts can be modified, according to the regulations
of the DAO, and involve a successful vote on a proposal.
On the other hand, the MANA contract, being an ERC-20
token, operates according to the standard, and the contract
that created it self-destructed after its creation so that no one
can modify its functioning.
IV. ANALYSING THE VIRTUAL WORLD
In this Section, we analyse the virtual world of Decentra-
land, focusing in particular on the parcels to gain important
knowledge concerning the usage of the virtual space. More in
detail, we study the type and name field of each parcel with
the ultimate goal of studying how much these fields impact
the NFT market. The parcel names, that are used to provide
a very concise description of the contents of each parcel, are
studied by the means of the graph and textual analyses. The
state of the parcels was obtained as of the 5th of February
2022 through atlas11, the official map API.
In total, there are four different types of parcels in Decen-
traland:
• Owned: single parcels owned by users;
• District: a set of parcels grouped together used for special
projects;
• Road: special parcels that cannot be owned by anyone.
Buses periodically pass by roads to transport users around
the virtual world;
• Plaza: act as main squares of the virtual world and serve
as public meeting points. Like Roads, these parcels are
not meant to be owned by anyone.
In Figure 3 we show the number of parcels per parcel type.
The Figure shows that only 15% of the parcels cannot be
owned because they serve as Roads and Plazas. In particular,
the amount of Roads is higher because they need to stretch all
the virtual world. Among the remaining parcels, we observe
that districts are quite common, highlighting the importance
of the feature.
11https://github.com/decentraland/atlas-server
202
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:23:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 4. Co-occurrence graph of the terms in parcel names.
To have a better understanding of the parcels as NFT and
how the economy can affect the game, we decided to analyse
the name tag that can be assigned to a parcel by its owner. The
tag can be used for multiple purposes, such as a very short
description of the content of a parcel, or as a label. In this
way, we are able to evaluate the presence of specific words
which can be used to improve the value of a parcel, as in a
real estate market. Figure 4 shows the co-occurrence graph of
the terms appearing in the parcel names.
In this graph, the nodes represent the terms, while the
edges represent the fact that the two terms appear in the same
name. The size of each node is weighted by its degree in the
graph, while the colours reflect the structure of the graph. The
Figure shows that the majority of the largest nodes all belong
to the light blue component, highlighting its importance on
the whole system. Among the key nodes of the graph, it is
possible to identify some that contain keywords, such as plaza,
district, estate, road, and land, which are important keywords
in Decentraland. Another important word used in the game’s
jargon is genesis, which identifies the area around the centre of
the map with coordinates (0,0). Other relevant words include
close, mainly used to communicate that a parcel is close to
a road or a plaza, and discord, which refers to the popular
project
aetherian
roads
city
dragon plazaestate
district
universitypark
land
street
battleground
genesis
decentraland
fashion
center
conference
momus metakovan
virtual
road
prom
ontories crypto
southdcl
gallery large
valley
festival
central
shopping
reality
discord
contact
dcl
altixlargest
via
games
dom
ain
corner
m
arketplace
museum
am
usem
ent
republic carnival
realmparcel
forest
build nft
plazas
square
prime
premium
phergyson
anarchistgon
location
south
layerx
details
near
great
sunset
club
woodside
lab
big
stu
international
u y
gigadragon
block
free
exhibit
strip
celadon
front
rare
transit
network
sciart
double
east
plot
roadside
west
close
vegas
voltaire
area
borderland
b uilding
secret
now
next
m
ain
mall
dland
Fig. 5. Wordcloud of the most recurring terms in parcel names.
Voice over IP application, that is used in these parcels that
are on sale to communicate a way to contact the owner. One
last important term is dragon, which refers to Dragon City
a project created by Metaverse Labs12, in which they created
an imaginary Chinese city with mixed ancient and modern
architecture.
12https://metaverselabs.com/
203
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:23:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 6. LAND parcels that mention
the Dragon City or the Dragon
Kingdom (now Altix).
Fig. 7. LAND parcels that mention
plazas.
To get a more detailed vision of the most recurring terms in
the parcel names, we show in Figure 5 a word cloud, where
the 100 most common terms are represented, and their size
is guided by the number of occurrences. Some of the known
terms are also visible in this Figure, including roads, dragon,
city, genesis, plaza, estate, and district, to name a few. Other
important terms related to official projects appear, such as
aetherian, project, university, battleground, fashion. We also
detect more terms related to sale offers, such as discord, next,
location, front, rare, close, and marketplace. The Figure also
shows some words related to activities that can be done in the
virtual world, such as museum, gallery, exhibit, sciart, and nft.
To capture the magnitude of the phenomenon connected to
parcel trading, we further inspected the name provided by each
parcel. Since the coordinates are not as expressive, often the
parcel owners put a description of the parcel location in the
parcel name intending to make it more desirable in the parcel
market. Just like in the estate market, where houses close to
services (e.g. mass transit) and landmarks (e.g. monuments,
squares, parks) are more attractive in the market, parcels close
to roads and other famous districts tend to have a higher value
and can be traded more easily. To visualise this phenomenon,
we analyse the parcel description to collect all the parcels
belonging to the Dragon City and Dragon Kingdom (two very
important project districts, in teal). The nearby parcels that
mention them are highlighted in salmon in Figure 6. It is
very interesting to see that multiple parcels and districts all
around Dragon city mention it to hint to potential buyers
the strategic location of the parcel. A similar effect can be
observed for plazas (green) and the parcels that mention plazas
(salmon) shown in Figure 7, although in this case the effect
is much more distributed because there are 9 different plazas
in Decentraland.
V. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS
In this paper, we explored the Metaverse built by Decen-
traland, a social decentralised video game where numerous
features are implemented as NFTs. The main feature of the
game is that users can own pieces of the virtual world, and
create their buildings or minigames. In this paper, we showed
how the economic side affects the main goal of the virtual
world. Some parcels are reserved for roads, plazas or large
projects, such as the Dragon City, encouraging some users to
sell their parcels, mentioning their closeness to some of these
features. The paper shows the impact of this phenomenon by
taking into account the parcel name field, which contains a
small description of the parcels. Our analysis uncovers the
magnitude of this phenomenon, detecting entire quarters on
sale mentioning their closeness to these important projects.
As future works, we plan to perform more detailed analyses
concerning the bidding process that enables the parcels trade,
and to study patterns to uncover possible scams around these
NFTs.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Datta, S. Buchegger, L.-H. Vu, T. Strufe, and K. Rzadca, “De-
centralized online social networks,” in Handbook of social network
technologies and applications, 2010, pp. 349–378.
[2] B. Guidi, A. Michienzi, and L. Ricci, “A graph-based socioeconomic
analysis of steemit,” IEEE Transactions on Computational Social Sys-
tems, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 365–376, 2020.
[3] ——, “Steem blockchain: Mining the inner structure of the graph,” IEEE
Access, vol. 8, pp. 210 251–210 266, 2020.
[4] C. Cadwalladr and E. Graham-Harrison, “Revealed: 50 million facebook
profiles harvested for cambridge analytica in major data breach,” The
guardian, vol. 17, p. 22, 2018.
[5] S. Buchegger, D. Schiöberg, L.-H. Vu, and A. Datta, “Peerson: P2p
social networking: early experiences and insights,” in Proceedings of
ACM EuroSys Workshop on Social Network Systems, 2009, pp. 46–52.
[6] L. A. Cutillo, R. Molva, and T. Strufe, “Safebook: A privacy-preserving
online social network leveraging on real-life trust,” IEEE Communica-
tions Magazine, vol. 47, no. 12, pp. 94–101, 2009.
[7] B. Guidi, “When blockchain meets online social networks,” Pervasive
and Mobile Computing, vol. 62, p. 101131, 2020.
[8] A. M. Kaplan and M. Haenlein, “Users of the world, unite! the chal-
lenges and opportunities of social media,” Business Horizons, vol. 53,
no. 1, pp. 59–68, 2010.
[9] T. Min, H. Wang, Y. Guo, and W. Cai, “Blockchain games: A survey,”
in 2019 IEEE Conference on Games (CoG), 2019, pp. 1–8.
[10] J. Pouwelse, P. Garbacki, D. Epema, and H. Sips, “The bittorrent
p2p file-sharing system: Measurements and analysis,” in International
workshop on peer-to-peer systems. Springer, 2005, pp. 205–216.
[11] B. Guidi, A. Michienzi, and L. Ricci, “Data persistence in decentralized
social applications: the ipfs approach,” in 2021 IEEE 18th Annual
Consumer Communications & Networking Conference (CCNC). IEEE,
2021, pp. 1–4.
204
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:23:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.