Applications of Blockchain Technology in Sustainable Fashion Supply Chains: Operational Transparency and Environmental Efforts
1312 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
Applications of Blockchain Technology in
Sustainable Fashion Supply Chains: Operational
Transparency and Environmental Efforts
Shu Guo, Xuting Sun , and Hugo K. S. Lam
Abstract—Using environmentally friendly materials is a pop-
ular business practice in the fashion industry nowadays, which
can affect both a fashion product’s cost and its environmental
impacts in the manufacturing process. Given the growing social
consciousness of the public, the integration of environmentally
friendly materials can also influence the market demand of fashion
products. This article studies the information disclosure games over
the environmental efforts in fashion supply chains. We consider a
fashion retailer, which is the Stackelberg leader, orders sustainable
fashion products made from environmentally friendly materials
from a manufacturer. The fashion retailer can choose either to
affix the eco-label or to adopt the blockchain technology, to declare
the environmental quality of the fashion product to consumers.
Meanwhile, given that the environmental quality is unobservable
to the fashion retailer and the consumers, the manufacturer with
credibility concerns can have the actual environmental quality of
the fashion product discounted. We discuss how the application
of the blockchain technology influences the information disclosure
games over the environmental efforts in the fashion industry. Find-
ings in this article advance the understanding on the application
of the blockchain technology in sustainable practices in fashion
supply chains.
Index Terms—Blockchain technology, environmental efforts,
fashion supply chain, information transparency, technology
management.
I. INTRODUCTION
A. Background and Motivation
THE fashion industry has long been blamed by the public
as a source of pollution. According to the statistics from
the United Nations Environment Programme and the Ellen
MacArthur Foundation [1], the fashion industry consumes 93
billion cubic meters of water each year. This is equivalent to
the water needs of five million people. Besides, the fashion
Manuscript received 30 August 2020; revised 19 October 2020; accepted 22
October 2020. Date of publication 3 December 2020; date of current version 9
March 2023. This work was supported in part by the National Natural Science
Foundation of China under Grant 72031004. Review of this manuscript was
arranged by Department Editor T.-M. Choi. (Corresponding author: Xuting
Sun.)
Shu Guo and Hugo K. S. Lam are with the School of Management, University
of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 7ZH, U.K. (e-mail: eunice.guo@liverpool.ac.uk;
hugolam@liverpool.ac.uk).
Xuting Sun is with the SILC Business School, Shanghai University, Shanghai
201899, China (e-mail: sunxuting@shu.edu.cn).
This article has supplementary material provided by the authors and color
versions of one or more figures available at https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2020.
3034216.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TEM.2020.3034216
industry makes up 10% of the world’s annual carbon emissions,
even higher than that from all international flights and maritime
transport. Among all the manufacturing processes, the textile
treatment and dyeing process accounts for nearly 20% of water
pollution of the fashion industry, as shown in the Waste and
Resources Action Programme 2017 report. To meet the sustain-
ability demand, more and more fashion companies are making
their products from environmentally friendly materials [2]. For
instance, the giant fashion brand H&M’s innovative collection
“Conscious Exclusive” is designed for sustainable fashion, in
which all the products contain sustainable materials. Consumers
can recognize this collection by the attached green tags, indicat-
ing that at least 50% sustainable raw materials or 20% recycled
cotton are used.1 CA, another fashion brand, was named the
world’s largest buyer of organic cotton for the sixth time in 2018
and one of the world’s largest buyers of more sustainable cotton.2
In the meantime, overproduction and surplus stock are serious
issues in the fashion industry. About 87% of the aggregate fiber
used in clothing ends up being incinerated or buried in a landfill.
According to a Danish TV investigation report, for instance,
H&M was blamed for burning 60 tons of usable garments since
2013. In 2018, it was revealed that Burberry had destroyed £28m
of unsold stock. There are also reports showing that Nike and
Urban Outfitters have demolished and ruined items, with the
aim of maintaining brand uniqueness and avoiding discounted
sales [3]. To address the large amount of product leftovers
in the fashion industry, various recycled materials have been
extensively adopted by fashion retailers like UNIQLO and VF
Corporation in their new fashion products. For example, from
the 2020 spring and summer seasons, UNIQLO began to sell its
DRY-EX Polo shirts, which use recycled polyester made from
post-consumer PET bottles by using the contaminant filtering
technology.3 The use of environmentally friendly materials helps
fashion companies reduce the environmental pollutions result-
ing from the product development process, thus enhancing the
environmental performance of their products.
1[Online]. Available: https://www.sohu.com/a/402949876 https://www.sohu.
com/a/402949876_120113743?_trans_=000014_bdss_dkygcbz (Accessed on
Oct. 2020)
2[Online]. Available: https://www.c-and-a.com/uk/en/corporate/company/
newsroom/press-releases/2019/ca-reduces-carbon-and-water-footprints-
significantly-by-sourcing-more-sustainable-raw-materials/ (Accessed on Oct.
2020)
3[Online]. Available: https://www.fastretailing.com/eng/sustainability/
report/new.html (Accessed on Oct. 2020)
0018-9391 © 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1985-153X
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4674-6145
mailto:eunice.guo@liverpool.ac.uk
mailto:hugolam@liverpool.ac.uk
mailto:sunxuting@shu.edu.cn
https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2020.3034216
https:&sol;&sol;www.sohu.com&sol;a&sol;402949876 ignorespaces https:&sol;&sol;www.sohu.com&sol;a&sol;402949876_120113743&quest;_trans_&equals;000014_bdss_dkygcbz
https:&sol;&sol;www.c-and-a.com&sol;uk&sol;en&sol;corporate&sol;company&sol;newsroom&sol;press-releases&sol;2019&sol;ca-reduces-carbon-and-water-footprints-significantly-by-sourcing-more-sustainable-raw-materials&sol;
https:&sol;&sol;www.fastretailing.com&sol;eng&sol;sustainability&sol;report&sol;new.html
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1313
In the meantime, information asymmetry and visibility have
been widely viewed as major concerns over the operations in
multitier supply chains [4], [5]. Regarding the manufacturing
process, the subsequent lack of supply chain traceability has also
become an economic and social challenge, as companies may
have limited information about the components or raw materials
used to make their products [6]. Credibility concerns can then
arise from the manufacturing of sustainable fashion products. A
manufacturer lacking full credibility may produce the sustain-
able fashion products with a discounted environmental quality as
stated. This can lead to environmental damage or pollutants with
the actual chemicals being released. These concerns, however,
can be addressed under the big data environment, in which
data-based tracking systems are developed by utilizing advanced
information technologies for information disclosure and sharing.
Among various advanced information technologies,
blockchain represents a state-of-the-art technology for enabling
traceability [7]. Blockchain is a digital ledger consisting of
blocks of information [8], with all blocks interdependently
linked to each other. In the blockchain-based traceability
systems, each transaction and action are recorded visibly and
can be tracked and retrieved by multiple parties at any time.
Besides, given the complex cryptography of blockchain, all
data are irreversibly and permanently recorded. Relevant parties
involved therefore can share data with each other without trust
and credibility concerns [9]. As a result, blockchain has been
widely applied in practices. For instance, both Walmart and
IBM are known for their blockchain programs for improving
supply chain traceability. E-commerce firms like Alibaba and
JD.com also have launched blockchain schemes for food and
pharmaceuticals management [10]. In the fashion industry,
a major blockchain application is to track materials and
products throughout different manufacturing stages, ranging
from initial raw materials management to finished products
management. As an instance of the fashion product with the use
of environmentally friendly materials, the promise of blockchain
is it does not require the involvement of any additional
inspections or certifications. Instead, once the information
is recorded in the blockchain system, it is immutable and
publicly visible [11]. This simplifies the information disclosure
processes and ensures reliable environmental efforts claims.
The management of environmental efforts is challenging in
fashion supply chains. In practice, the environmental quality of
a fashion product is unobservable to both the fashion retailer
and consumers. Consumers’ preferences toward information
disclosure games over the environmental efforts can also in-
fluence the environmental performance of sustainable fashion
supply chains. Prior studies have explored how to improve the
performance of sustainable fashion supply chains from various
perspectives, like the influences of government intervention and
cooperating contracts. However, the impacts of the application
of advanced information technologies remain underexplored.
Besides, the extant literature mainly focuses on studying the con-
ditions under which information transparency can help improve
supply chain efficiency. However, the associated advertisement
strategies for the environmental quality of the products and the
signaling roles played by the advertisement activities have not
yet been investigated. In fact, advertisement plays an impor-
tant role for fashion companies to announce the environmental
quality of their products and thus is worth consideration. For
example, on the official website of H&M, there is a special
section called “Let’s be transparent,”4 which guides customers
to track the background details about the products they would
like to purchase, such as the materials the product is made from,
which countries it was produced in, and which suppliers and
factories they partnered with to make it. C&A online displays
all the sustainable fashion products with specific information
about what types of the sustainable materials used, which are
all certified by independent third parties to make customers feel
confident that the products they purchase are made sustainably.5
Motivated by the popularity of environmentally friendly fash-
ion products nowadays, the importance of information trans-
parency for environmental efforts, and the research gap in the
literature, this article therefore conducts a deep investigation on
how the application of the blockchain technology influences the
information disclosure games over the environmental efforts in
the fashion industry.
B. Research Questions and Contribution Statements
1) Research Questions: The industrial observations and lit-
erature motivate us to explore the application of the blockchain
technology in the information disclosure games (over the envi-
ronmental efforts) in the fashion supply chain by addressing the
following research questions.
1) Under the considerations of information disclosure, what
is the optimal environmental quality of the sustainable
fashion product?
2) How does the blockchain technology influence the infor-
mation disclosure games over the environmental efforts?
Is an enhanced information transparency level brought by
blockchain always beneficial to both the fashion retailer
and the upstream manufacturer?
3) What are the impacts brought by the risk attitudes of the
fashion retailer and the manufacturer toward the market
uncertainty?
The fashion retailer’s environmental efforts in this article are
reflected by the environmental quality of the fashion product.
To examine these questions, we present a fashion supply chain
that consists of a fashion retailer and an upstream manufac-
turer. The fashion retailer, which is the Stackelberg leader,
orders the sustainable fashion product, which is made from
environmentally friendly materials, from the manufacturer. The
manufacturer, acting as the follower, then produces the product
accordingly based on the requirements of the fashion retailer.
To declare the environmental quality of the fashion product to
the consumers, the fashion retailer can choose either to affix
his own eco-label or to adopt the blockchain technology. Given
that we follow Guo et al. [18] and Galbreth and Ghosh [42]
and define the environmental quality of the fashion product as
4[Online]. Available: https://www2.hm.com/en https://www2.hm.com/en_
us/hm-sustainability/lets-change.html/transparent (Accessed on Oct., 2020)
5[Online]. Available: https://www.c-and-a.com/eu/en/shop/women-topics-
more-sustainable-fashion (Accessed on Oct., 2020)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https:&sol;&sol;www2.hm.com&sol;en ignorespaces https:&sol;&sol;www2.hm.com&sol;en_us&sol;hm-sustainability&sol;lets-change.html&sol;transparent
https://www.c-and-a.com/eu/en/shop/women-topics-more-sustainable-fashion
1314 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
the amount of environmentally friendly material(s) adopted in
the product development process, the environmental quality is
unobservable to both the fashion retailer and the consumers.
As a result, under the eco-label practice (i.e., in the traditional
fashion supply chain without blockchain), the manufacturer with
credibility concerns can have the actual environmental quality
of the fashion product discounted. In the fashion supply chain
with the support of blockchain, however, the manufacturer has to
follow the requirements given the full information transparency.
By comparing the information disclosure games between the
traditional fashion supply chain without blockchain and the
blockchain-based fashion supply chain, we discuss how the
application of the blockchain technology influences the infor-
mation disclosure games over the environmental efforts in the
fashion industry. The environmental impacts are also examined.
This article provides the following answers to the research
questions.
a) Role of information disclosure: First, we find that under
the traditional fashion supply chain, when the consumers hold
a higher willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s internal
inspection level, the optimal environmental quality of the fashion
product will be higher. In the blockchain-based fashion supply
chain, when the consumers hold a higher willingness to pay for
the blockchain advertisement level, the optimal environmental
quality of the fashion product will be higher. Both findings high-
light the importance of information disclosure and transparency,
which can help reduce the consumers’ credibility concerns over
the information provided by the affixed eco-label.
b) Role of the blockchain technology: We find that the con-
sumer’s willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s blockchain
advertisement level impacts the value of blockchain in improv-
ing the optimal environmental quality of the sustainable fashion
product. That is, as long as the consumer’s willingness to pay
for the blockchain advertisement level is sufficiently high, apply-
ing blockchain for information disclosure can always increase
the optimal environmental quality of the fashion product. This
accordingly increases the environmental performance of the
fashion product. Whereas if the consumer’s willingness to pay
for the blockchain advertisement level is not that high, a higher
optimal environmental quality of the product can be achieved
in the blockchain-based fashion supply chain if and only if the
basic manufacturing cost of the fashion product is sufficiently
high. Besides, disclosing information via blockchain can always
benefit both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer if the
consumer’s willingness to pay for the blockchain advertisement
level is sufficiently high.
c) Impact of the risk attitudes: Our results show that, in
the traditional fashion supply chain, the more risk averse the
fashion retailer is, the lower the optimal environmental quality
and internal inspection level can be. In addition, despite the risk
attitudes of the fashion retailer and the manufacturer, applying
blockchain for information disclosure is always beneficial to
both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer as long as the
consumer’s willingness to pay for the blockchain advertisement
level is sufficiently high. However, if the consumer’s willingness
to pay for the fashion retailer’s blockchain advertisement level is
not that high, blockchain can benefit both the fashion retailer and
the manufacturer only when the risk aversion level of the fashion
retailer or the market demand uncertainty is sufficiently high.
2) Contribution Statements: We contribute to the literature
by providing new insights beyond what is currently available in
the literature on sustainable fashion supply chains, environmen-
tal efforts, information disclosure/transparency, and technology
investment in supply chains. Managerial implications on how
the application of the blockchain technology influences the
information disclosure games over the environmental efforts in
the fashion industry can also serve as an important reference to
business practices in the fashion industry nowadays.
The rest of this article is organized as follows. Section II
presents the related literature, regarding the fields of sustainable
fashion supply chains, environmental efforts, information dis-
closure/transparency, as well as technology investment in supply
chains. Section III introduces the model formulation. Section IV
examines the games of information disclosure over environmen-
tal efforts. Section V conducts comparisons between the two
information disclosure games and investigates the performance
of the blockchain technology. Section VI extends Section IV
with the risk considerations, and Section VII finally concludes
the article with managerial insights and also provides future
research opportunities. All proofs are placed in Appendix A, and
relevant tables are provided in Appendix B in the supplementary
material online.
II. LITERATURE REVIEW
The article mainly relates to four research areas, which in-
clude sustainable fashion supply chains, environmental efforts,
information disclosure/transparency, and technology investment
in supply chains.
A. Sustainable Fashion Supply Chains
Sustainability issues in the fashion and apparel industry have
been an important topic which attracts tremendous attentions
from both practitioners and academia [12]. On one hand, gov-
ernments play a critical role in enhancing sustainable operations
for fashion supply chains. Government regulations will affect the
procurement strategies taken by retailers. For example, Niu et
al. [13] examine the impacts of two commonly used regulations
on the improvement of supply chain sustainability. The results
show that both subsidizing and punishing can help balance the
conflicts between sustainability goal and social welfare max-
imization. Credibility plays a critical role for the government
to take actions on stimulating sustainable operations. Murali
et al. [14] examine the conditions under which the regulators
should not intervene when competing firms can use self-labels
or external certifications to show their sustainable performance.
On the other hand, the effective cooperating mechanisms
among supply chain members are of great importance to realize
full sustainability [15]. Fashion supply chain is evaluated as
a well-qualified system of systems. Choi et al. [16] propose
the critical principles for building a sustainable fashion supply
chain. It is analytically revealed that sustainability coordina-
tion and technology employment are essential to achieve full
sustainability. Bai et al. [17] propose different coordination
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1315
mechanisms, such as cost sharing and two-part tariff contract, for
a two-echelon sustainable supply chain under carbon cap-and-
trade regulation. The results show that the cooperation between
the manufacturer and the retailer may lead to both economic
and environmental sustainability. Guo et al. [18] study a fashion
supply chain in which one manufacturer and two retailers are in-
volved. The effects of retail competition and consumer returns on
the green development of the fashion products are investigated.
The results help understand the underdevelopment of the green
fashion products, as the features of fashion industry suppress the
improvement of the greenness level for profit-oriented retailers.
Joining a co-opetition game for the fashion companies are crit-
ical for both green product development and consumer returns
management. Hong and Guo [19] study cooperation contracts
for a green product supply chain in which the manufacturer is
responsible for designing and producing a green product, and
the retailer promotes the green product through green marketing.
Different cooperation contracts are analyzed. The results show
that cooperating contracts are valuable but may not always
benefit all the parties. The social welfare increases with the
supply chain’s cooperation level.
The above research works have explored the ways to improve
the performance of sustainable fashion supply chains from var-
ious aspects, like the influences of government intervention and
cooperating contracts. The application of advanced information
technologies, however, remains underexplored. This article con-
tributes to the sustainable fashion supply chains literature by
investigating the application of the blockchain technology in the
information disclosure games over the environmental efforts in
the fashion industry.
B. Environmental Efforts
With the enforcement of environmentally friendly regulations
and policies and the increase in consumers’ environmental
awareness, firms put more efforts to address environmental
issues by, for example, reducing emissions during the manu-
facturing and process stages [20]. The decision making and
contracts adopted by supply chain members affect the perfor-
mance of the environmental efforts as well as their profitability.
Yang et al. [21] study a two-echelon supply chain where carbon
emission charges and consumers’ environmental awareness are
both considered. Wholesale price contract and revenue sharing
contract are examined for systems coordination. The numerical
results show that different emission abatement strategies affect
the profit of the supply chain systems and a first-mover will
obtain a greater share of revenue. Zhu et al. [22] explore the
coordination mechanism by cost-sharing contracts for green
food manufacturing and marketing in a green food two-echelon
supply chain. Both food producer and supplier make green ef-
forts for material processing and food manufacturing. The results
show that a mutual cost-sharing contract induces more profits for
both parties when consumers’ sensitivity to the greenness level
increases. Hosseini-Motlagh et al. [23] investigate a sustainable
supply chain with one manufacturer investing to reduce carbon
emissions and two retailers competing on investing in the green
effort. The results show that a proposed coordination strategy
called three-party compensation-based contract is effective to
realize both economic and environmental sustainability. Kang
et al. [24] analyze the effects of the environmentally friendly
regulation on the manufacturer’s efforts to reduce pollution in
the supply chain. The numerical results indicate that, with the
incentive scheme and consumers’ environmental awareness, the
manufacturer can create additional value by cooperating with
its supplier for pollution reduction. Shi et al. [25] examine the
value of the bargaining contract for a sustainable supply chain
coordination and the effectiveness of different subsidies. The
results show that the pareto improvement is achieved under
bargaining contract when the manufacturer’s bargaining power
satisfies a certain condition. Both direct and indirect subsidies
can increase the sustainability effort but total carbon emissions
reduction may not be guaranteed.
The above discussion suggests that the effectiveness of addi-
tional charges (e.g., carbon emission charges) and subsidies have
been extensively studied, but there is still limited literature exam-
ining the inherent challenges of environmental efforts manage-
ment. In practice, the environmental quality of a fashion product
is unobservable to both the fashion retailer and consumers. Con-
sumers’ preferences toward information disclosure games over
the environmental efforts can also influence the environmental
performance of sustainable fashion supply chains. This article
therefore complements the literature on environmental efforts
by exploring such impacts.
C. Information Disclosure/Transparency
Information transparency may help improve supply chain
efficiency. However, it may not always benefit all parties in
the supply chain. For example, Huang and Yang [26] study the
retailer’s contract design and supplier’s information disclosure
decisions in a supply chain where the retailer outsources the
manufacturing to its supplier. The supplier can obtain the man-
ufacturing cost information through costly forecasting effort.
The results show that the supplier can benefit from transparency
only under specific conditions. For the retailer, it is not always
preferred to stimulate the supplier’s forecasting, which in fact
depends on the forecasting cost. Zhao et al. [27] study the
quality disclosure strategies for small firms competing with
heterogeneous product quality. The small firms disclose their
quality information to their consumers through retailers first
and decides the optimal selling price. The analytical results
show that a high-quality firm should avoid disclosing quality
information while a low-quality firm may choose to disclose.
Disclosing quality information of the high-quality firm to the
consumers may lower the selling price due to the competition
and the mechanism of information disclosure.
Information disclosure helps improve social and environmen-
tal sustainability in supply chains. The deterrent such as punish-
ing affects the optimal disclosure strategies as the disclosure
affects the level of scrutiny by the third party. Chen et al. [28]
study a model in which one buyer, one supplier, and an NGO are
involved. Both the buyer and supplier incur a penalty if the sus-
tainability standard is violated by the supplier. It is verified that
an increase in penalty stimulates the buyer to reveal its supplier.
However, only a modest increase in penalty and the buyer’s effort
to monitor its supplier benefit supply chain sustainability. Peng et
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1316 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
al. [29] examine the value of the online information disclosure
platform in solving the environmental data fraud problem of
enterprises. An evolutionary game model is developed to analyze
the optimal decisions for local governments and enterprises. The
results verify that partial investment in the development of online
information disclosure platform is better than the pure offline
investigation mode. With the rapid development of platform
economy, information disclosure of the products and services is
critical for consumer surplus and social welfare. Choi et al. [30]
study a Nash game between two rental service platforms with
substitutable products-to-rent. The analytical results indicate
that the level of consumers’ information sensitivity helps decide
whether each platform should disclose products information or
not. The information auditing cost as well as the profit margin of
the product have positive impacts on the information disclosure.
Blockchain technology plays an important role in such platform
operations in realizing product information disclosure. Besides,
radio frequency identification (RFID) as an AutoID technology
is commonly used for achieving information transparency in
fashion supply chains. For instance, a RFID embedded inven-
tory system can help to reduce the inventory record inaccuracy
through item-level visibility of the entire supply chain [68].
In fact, blockchain is implemented at the cyber layer, while
RFID is implemented at the physical layer. The combination of
blockchain and RFID forms a cyber-physical system to create a
transparent supply chain [69], [70].
While the aforementioned literature has highlighted the con-
ditions when information transparency can help improve supply
chain efficiency, the associated advertisement strategies have
been ignored. Innovatively, this article addresses two informa-
tion disclosure games with different advertisement activities
and explores the signaling roles of the advertisement activities.
Besides, different from above, we focus on the context of the
fashion industry, by considering factors like the complex sourc-
ing networks of the manufacturer and the unique cost structure
of the fashion products made from environmentally friendly
materials.
D. Technology Investment in Supply Chains
Nowadays, supply chain members pay more attention to the
technology investment during manufacturing and service opera-
tions to improve supply chain efficiency as well as consumer sur-
plus [31], [32]. For example, Sengupta [31] studies the impacts
of environmental consciousness of consumers in the cleaner
technology investment. The findings demonstrate that market
competition has a positive impact on the technology investment
while requiring mandatory disclosure of technology may dis-
courage such investment. Ulloa et al. [33] analyze the effects of
a fixed initial technology investment on preventive maintenance
(PM) on the performance-based maintenance contracts. Addi-
tional coordination mechanism is proposed to achieve supply
chain coordination in which the vender reduces the maintenance
price in exchange for a reduction in the number of PM required
by the client. With environmental sensitivity consideration,
Saberi et al. [34] examine the effectiveness of green technology
investment in the long run for a supply chain network model
in which retailers, manufacturers and carriers collaborate. The
study advocates that effective sustainable strategies are supposed
to be analyzed with the consideration of the entire supply chain.
Zhang et al. [35] study the optimal investment and pricing
strategies for green products with the consideration of consumer
environmental awareness and energy efficiency standard. The
results show that a higher consumer environmental awareness
attracts more technology investment; however, a moderate rather
than a stringent standard of energy efficiency encourages the pro-
ducer to enter the green market. There exists a tradeoff between
satisfying the expectation induced by consumer environmental
awareness and the cost for achieving energy efficiency. In re-
cent years, blockchain technology, especially its cryptocurrency
function, has been attracting increasingly attentions from both
governments and companies [36]. It has been widely applied
in different areas for addressing information and capital fraud
issues such as supply chain finance [37], [38]. For example,
ur Rehman et al. [37] propose a blockchain technology-based
platform to solve the information asymmetry and non-trust
issues in the traditional supply chain. The results show the effec-
tiveness of the blockchain technology-based financial platform
on the improvement of cost efficiency and service level of the
supply chain. In addition, by having traceability, transparency,
security and smart execution, blockchain helps to solve the
information challenges in supply chain activities [62]. It is
well known that the first use of blockchain in fashion related
supply chains is on diamond trading. Choi [64] investigates
the values of blockchain-technology-supported platform for dia-
mond authentication and certification. For the use of blockchain
technology, it is important to explore the threshold for the
implementation cost to benefit all the parties in the supply chain.
Choi [38] examines the all-win conditions to implement the
blockchain technology for all the supply chain’s members and
consumers.
Due to the inherent high volatility of demand in the fashion
industry and the risk created by emerging technologies [63],
supply chain members may have different risk preferences to-
wards demand uncertainty. To tackle with the volatile demand,
different risk measures have been applied to reach effective
operations decisions [65]. Choi and Chiu [66] propose mean-
down-risk model and mean-variance model to analyze the profit
risks arising from demand uncertainty. By analyzing different
sustainable aspects, the results show that risk preference will af-
fect the decision making of retailers such that risk-averse fashion
retailers are more sustainable in terms of having fewer unsold
products. A key factor to success in the fashion industry is the
ability to satisfy customers’ demands in a prompt manner. Choi
et al. [67] investigate the impacts of stochastic risk preference of
the retailer on the value of quick response. It is verified that being
more risk-averse brings more benefits to the retailer but incurs a
smaller profit loss for the manufacturer. However, ignoring the
risk preference of the retailer induces negative impacts on the
Pareto improvement in the supply chain.
Different from the extant literature on technology investment
in supply chains, which basically focuses on analyzing the
effectiveness of various technologies and the ways for further
improvement, this article discusses the value of blockchain
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1317
technology by considering both the consumers’ preferences
toward different information disclosure games and studying the
influences brought by the risk attitudes of supply chain members.
III. MODEL FORMULATION
The fashion retailer’s environmental efforts in this article
is reflected by the environmental quality of the fashion prod-
uct. Following Guo et al. [18] and Galbreth and Ghosh [42],
we define the environmental quality of the fashion product as
the amount of environmentally friendly material(s) adopted in
the product development process. Given the lack of supply
chain traceability in traditional fashion supply chains, the actual
amount of environmentally friendly material(s) adopted in the
product development process can be invisible to consumers. A
manufacturer lacking full credibility thus can take advantage
of information asymmetry and produce the sustainable fashion
products with a discounted environmental quality as stated.
Under the data analytics era, however, the blockchain-based
tracking systems can be applied for information disclosure and
the manufacturer has to produce sustainable fashion products
consistently with the data recorded in blockchain for raw mate-
rials. This section therefore presents the information disclosure
game for environmental efforts during the product development
process. A fashion supply chain is established, which consists
of one upstream manufacturer (she) and one downstream re-
tailer (he). Both the traditional fashion supply chain without
blockchain and the blockchain supported fashion supply chain
are explored next, with modeling assumptions justified with
industrial practices.
A. Traditional Fashion Supply Chain without Blockchain
1) Information Disclosure: We first consider a traditional
fashion supply chain without the support of blockchain. Without
the support of blockchain, information regarding the fashion
product’s environmental quality eB̄ is disclosed by the affixed
eco-label, which is a traditionally and widely used practice
among retailers for their branded products [39]. Typical exam-
ples in the fashion industry include but not limit to the eco-labels
provided under H&M’s Conscious Collection, which provides
composition details such as the percentage of sustainable mate-
rials integrated.
2) Market Demand: Consistent with the extant literature
(e.g., [40] and [41]), each consumer purchases at most one unit of
the sustainable fashion product and holds his own valuation (i.e.,
the willingness to pay) asu. The valuationu follows a probability
distribution function g(u) and a cumulative distribution function
G(u). The heterogeneity of consumer valuations is determined
by general factors like the product quality and brand image, and
is captured by taking u to be uniformly distributed over [0, a].
The fashion product’s environmental quality eB̄ is quantified by
the amount of environmentally friendly material(s) adopted and
reflects the environmental performance of product development
process. As an example, using organic cotton can reduce the
total water consumption to 182 L/kg lint compared with the
2120 L/kg lint of conventional cotton.6 Better environmental
performance of the product development process thus can be
achieved by blending a larger amount of organic cotton into
the fashion product. Such sustainable practices are widely em-
phasized by various fashion retailers such as H&M, M&S, and
Mango for enhancing the environmental quality levels of their
products. It is also supported by prior sustainability research like
Galbreth and Ghosh [42]. By providing information regarding
the environmental quality level, the fashion retailer enhances
the consumer’s willingness to pay by αeB̄ . α is the consumer’s
marginal willingness to pay for the environmental quality of
the fashion product. Such an environmental quality-induced
consumer preference is supported both by the survey conducted
by the Gallup International Institute (1992) [57] and by literature
like Bei and Simpson [58], Chen [59], as well as Guo et al. [18].
Besides, given that it can be difficult for consumers to identify
the environmental quality of a product [43], consumers can
have credibility concerns over the fashion retailer’s eco-label.
In order to improve the credibility of the affixed eco-label, the
fashion retailer simultaneously releases information regarding
his internal inspection level ξB̄I on the sustainable product to
consumers. This helps increase the consumer willingness to
pay for the sustainable fashion product by γξB̄I , with γ as
the consumer’s marginal willingness to pay for the fashion
retailer’s internal inspection level on the sustainable fashion
product. Accordingly, given a retail price pB̄ , a consumer gets
the utility of UB̄ = u+ αeB̄ − βpB̄ + γξB̄I from purchasing
the sustainable fashion product without the integration of the
blockchain technology. As a result, we have the demand of
the sustainable fashion product as dB̄ =
∫ a
βpB̄−αeB̄−γξB̄I
g(u)du
= 1
a (a+ αeB̄ − βpB̄ + γξB̄I ).
3) Cost and Revenue Parameters: The fashion retailer orders
the sustainable fashion product from the upstream manufacturer
with a per unit wholesale price wB̄ and charges the consumer
a retail price pB̄ of each sustainable fashion product. In the
meantime, similar to the prior literature like Savaskan and Van
Wassenhove [44], the fashion retailer has an extra sustainable
investment kE(eB̄)
2
2 for selling the product to the target market.
The extra sustainable investment can result from advertising the
environmental quality (i.e., eB̄) and other relevant costs. Here,
kE is the fashion retailer’s cost coefficient related to the product’s
environmental quality. For example, to promote their sustainable
collections (e.g., the H&M Conscious Exclusive Collection and
the MANGO Committed), both H&M and Mango have devoted
extra efforts in advertising the detailed information regarding
the environmentally friendly material(s) that have been utilized.
The public can easily get access to the details either from their
official newsletters or from fashion magazines like Vogue.
In the meanwhile, given the lack of direct control, the fashion
retailer also conducts internal inspection over the manufacturer’s
use of environmentally friendly material(s). Internal inspections,
however, are always imperfect [45]. In particular, the complex
sourcing networks of the manufacturer in the fashion industry,
6[Online]. Available: http://textileexchange.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/
06/TE-Material-Snapshot_Organic-Cotton.pdf (Accessed on Aug., 2020).
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://textileexchange.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/06/TE-Material-Snapshot_Organic-Cotton.pdf
1318 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
which may involve thousands of factories across various coun-
tries, makes the internal inspection even more challenging [46].
In this article, we therefore assume the fashion retailer conducts
costly but imperfect internal inspection at a level ξB̄I . The level
ξB̄I determines the probability that the fashion retailer can detect
the manufacturer’s underperformance over the environmentally
friendly material(s) utilization during his internal inspections, if
it exists. This accordingly induces an extra internal inspection
cost kI(ξ
B̄
I )
2
2 , with kI as the fashion retailer’s cost coefficient
related to the internal inspection. Besides, penalty schemes are
widely adopted in addressing the lack of direct control [47].
Following the practices, a penalty scheme for managing the
manufacturer’s use of environmentally friendly material(s) is
also considered. The manufacturer is charged by the fashion
retailer with a per unit penalty of h for each fashion product
with an underperformed environmental quality identified (i.e.,
lower than the required level). At the same time, the public
also conducts external inspection at a level ξB̄E . Each under-
performed sustainable fashion product that has passed inter-
nal inspection but identified by the public causes a goodwill
loss g. With these cost and revenue parameters in mind, the
fashion retailer makes optimal decisions of the environmental
quality eB̄ , the internal inspection level ξB̄I , as well as the retail
price pB̄ of the sustainable fashion product to maximize his
profit.
The upstream manufacturer bears the basic manufacturing
cost cm, covering the general energy, labor, and equipment costs
of manufacturing. In addition, the manufacturer has an extra cost
θeB̄ invested to produce the sustainable fashion product for the
fashion retailer. θ reflects the manufacturer’s cost coefficient
of using environmentally friendly material(s) such as organic
cotton. Consequently, the manufacturer faces a total cost of
cm + θeB̄ for each sustainable fashion product. Such a linear
structure of the manufacturing cost is supported by both indus-
trial practices and the literature (e.g., [42], [48]). In addition,
given the imperfect internal inspection, the manufacturer may
also produce the fashion product by only following a portion
(1− δ) of the required environmental quality (i.e., eB̄(1− δ)).
By doing so, the manufacturer can have a reduced per unit manu-
facturing cost as cm + θeB̄(1− δ).δ denotes the manufacturer’s
underperformance level over the use of environmentally friendly
material(s) during product development process.
In addition, as mentioned above, the manufacturer pays the
fashion retailer a penalty h for each underperformed product
(i.e., lower than the required level) identified under internal
inspection, the chance of which is ξB̄I . While if not identi-
fied, the manufacturer does not pay any additional cost for
the underperformed product. We denote by φ the chance that
the manufacturer chooses to produce the sustainable product
at an underperformed environmental quality. Accordingly, the
manufacturer produces the sustainable fashion product as re-
quired at the chance of 1− φ. We assume that both δ and φ
are known to the fashion retailer. As in practice, retailers can
find relevant information through public reputation systems for
environmentally responsible sourcing practices of eco-labeled
products provided by the manufacturers. As an example in the
food industry, the Walmart buyer can use the Sustainability
Index (the reputation system for Walmart’s sustainably grown
produce) to identify relevant business opportunities and risks,
which provides details regarding supply security, costs, as well
as the reputation risks.7 As the follower, the manufacturer makes
the optimal decision of the wholesale price wB̄ of each product
offered to the retailer to maximize her profit.
To ensure a meaningful and nontrivial transaction, we have
α > βθ(1− φδ) and a > βgφξB̄E for the traditional fashion
supply chain without blockchain; as otherwise, a consumer will
never purchase.
B. Blockchain-Based Fashion Supply Chain
1) Information Disclosure: We next explore the fashion sup-
ply chain with the support of blockchain. With blockchain,
the upstream manufacturer produces the sustainable fashion
product consistently with the data recorded in blockchain for raw
materials. A unique identity of each fashion product is created
and tagged, e.g., via barcodes, serial numbers and digital tags
like radio frequency identification (RFID) or genetic tags, which
will be updated into the blockchain interface. Both the fashion
retailer and consumers in the target market can then easily access
and trace the complete history of each sustainable product by
using the tag attached to the fashion product. The tag acts as an
interface for the authentication and information traceability, and
no characteristics of the fashion product are changed.
2) Market Demand: Similar to the traditional fashion sup-
ply chain, the consumer’s marginal willingness to pay for
the environmental quality eB and the retail price pB are α
and β, respectively. While differently, with the application of
blockchain, all information regarding the environmental qual-
ity becomes transparent. No internal and external inspections
therefore will be conducted. Consumers’ credibility concerns
over the fashion product’s eco-label (induced by the fashion
retailer’s imperfect internal inspection) can also be addressed.
In the meantime, given that the blockchain technology is still
relatively new to the market, the fashion retailer devotes extra
advertisement at a level of ηB . This enhances the consumer’s
willingness to pay by τηB and leads to the final utility as UB =
u+ αeB − βpB + τηB from purchasing the sustainable fash-
ion product. Accordingly, we have the demand of the sustainable
fashion product in the blockchain-based fashion supply chain as
dB =
∫ a
βpB−αeB−τηB g(u)du = 1
a (a+ αeB − βpB + τηB).
3) Cost and Revenue Parameters: Given the enhanced infor-
mation transparency under the blockchain technology, the up-
stream manufacturer produces each fashion product by follow-
ing the environmental quality eB as required. No investment for
internal inspection thus is needed at the fashion retailer’s level.
Instead, the fashion retailer launches new e-marketing (adver-
tisement) activities regarding the application of blockchain (in
disclosing the product’s environmental quality) and has an extra
7[Online]. Available: https://corporate.walmart.com/media-library/
document/2019-environmental-social-governance-report/ https://
corporate.walmart.com/media-library/document/2019-environmental-
social-governance-report/_proxyDocument?id=0000016c-20b5-d46a-afff-
f5bdafd30000. (Accessed on Aug., 2020).
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https:&sol;&sol;corporate.walmart.com&sol;media-library&sol;document&sol;2019-environmental-social-governance-report&sol; ignorespaces https:&sol;&sol;corporate.walmart.com&sol;media-library&sol;document&sol;2019-environmental-social-governance-report&sol;_proxyDocument&quest;id&equals;0000016c-20b5-d46a-afff-f5bdafd30000
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1319
TABLE I
NOTATION
blockchain advertisement cost as kB(ηB)
2
2 .8 kB is the fashion
retailer’s cost coefficient related to the blockchain advertisement
level.9 With the support of blockchain, the fashion retailer then
makes optimal decisions of the environmental quality eB , the
blockchain advertisement level ηB , as well as the retail price
pB of the sustainable fashion product. As the follower, the
manufacturer makes the optimal decision of the wholesale price
wB̄ of each sustainable fashion product.
To ensure a meaningful and nontrivial transaction, we have
α > βθ and a > βcm for the fashion supply chain with
blockchain. For convenience, a list of all notations is shown
in Table I. Besides, different features of the traditional fashion
supply chain without blockchain and the blockchain supported
fashion supply chain are elaborated in Table II.
8As a remark, in this article, we assume the advertisement on the fashion
product’s environmental quality and the advertisement on information trans-
parency are two independent e-marketing activities. The fashion retailer’s cost
IV. GAMES OF INFORMATION DISCLOSURE OVER
ENVIRONMENTAL EFFORTS
In this section, we explore the information disclosure games
over the environmental efforts under the traditional fashion sup-
ply chain (i.e., without the support of the blockchain technology)
and the blockchain-based fashion supply chain, respectively. De-
tailed comparisons are conducted and the value of the blockchain
technology is discussed.
coefficient for the product environmental quality kE therefore is assumed to be
the same under both fashion supply chains.
9Notice that although both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer can
have extra fixed installation investments of blockchain (e.g., new facilities,
unique identity creation of the products, and additional labor training), the fixed
investments do not influence the equilibrium results in this article. We therefore
exclude the impacts of the fixed investment costs of blockchain at both the
fashion retailer level and the manufacturer level. This helps us to better present
the influences brought by the market preferences (i.e., consumers’ willingness
to pay) and the risk attitudes of supply chain members, regarding the application
of blockchain in enhancing information transparency.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1320 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
TABLE II
FEATURES OF THE TRADITIONAL FASHION SUPPLY CHAIN WITHOUT BLOCKCHAIN AND THE BLOCKCHAIN SUPPORTED FASHION SUPPLY CHAIN
A. Traditional Fashion Supply Chain Without Blockchain
In this article, we argue that the fashion retailer, which can
be giant retailers like Nike, and M&S, H&M and Mango, is the
Stackelberg leader and has the power to determine the environ-
mental quality of his sustainable fashion product. In practice,
for example, both Nike and M&S have strict requirements
regarding the percentage of sustainable materials (e.g., organic
cotton) contained in their products and H&M also has a specific
chemical restrictions list for the product development process
[18]. The sequence of events under the traditional fashion supply
chain is as follows.
1) The fashion retailer first determines the environmental
quality eB̄ and the internal inspection level ξB̄I , simul-
taneously.
2) Given the environmental quality required by the retailer,
the manufacturing activities are conducted and the manu-
facturer decides the wholesale price wB̄ of each product
offered to the retailer.
3) The retailer accordingly decides the retail price pB̄ of the
sustainable fashion product.
We can then have the respective objective functions of the
fashion retailer and the manufacturer as follows:
max
eB̄ ≥0, ξB̄I ≥0, pB̄ ≥0
πB̄
R =
{
(1− φ)
(
pB̄ − wB̄
)
+ φ
[
pB̄ − wB̄
+ hξB̄I − gξB̄E
(
1− ξB̄I
)]}
dB̄
− kE(e
B̄)
2
2
− kI(ξ
B̄
I )
2
2
(1)
max
wB̄ ≥0
πB̄
M = (1− φ)
[
wB̄ −
(
cm + θeB̄
)]
dB̄
+ φ
{{
wB̄ −
[
cm + θeB̄
× (1− δ)]}
(
1− ξB̄I
)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1321
+
{
wB̄ −
[
cm + θeB̄ (1− δ)
]
− h
}
ξB̄I
}
dB̄ . (2)
The fashion retailer and the manufacturer make their respec-
tive optimal decision(s) by following the sequence of events
elaborated above. Accordingly, under the conditions of kE >
A2
8aβ and kI > kEB2
8aβkE−A2 ,10 we have the equilibrium decisions
as follows:
eB̄∗ =
kIA
(
a− βcm − βgφξB̄E
)
kI (8aβkE −A2)− kEB2
,
ξB̄∗
I =
kEB
(
a− βcm − βgφξB̄E
)
kI (8aβkE −A2)− kEB2
wB̄∗ =
(
a− βgφξB̄E
)
(4akIkE + C)
+cm (4aβkIkE −D)
kI (8aβkE −A2)− kEB2
,
and
pB̄∗=
a (6akIkE + E)+
(
cm + gφξB̄E
)
(2aβkIkE − F )
kI (8aβkE −A2)− kEB2
.
The list of all abbreviations is available in Table IV in Ap-
pendix B.
The conditions of kE > A2
8aβ and kI > kEB2
8aβkE−A2 imply that
both the internal inspection and advertising the environmental
quality of the fashion product are expensive. This result is
consistent with the practices in the fashion industry.
Proposition 1: In the traditional fashion supply chain with-
out the support of the blockchain technology for information
transparency: a) ∂eB̄∗
∂γ > 0, ∂dB̄∗
∂γ > 0, ∂πB̄∗
R
∂γ > 0, ∂πB̄∗
M
∂γ > 0;
b) ∂ξB̄∗
I
∂θ < 0, ∂dB̄∗
∂θ < 0, ∂πB̄∗
R
∂θ < 0, ∂πB̄∗
M
∂θ < 0; c) ∂eB̄∗
∂cm
< 0,
∂ξB̄∗
I
∂cm
< 0, ∂dB̄∗
∂cm
< 0, ∂πB̄∗
R
∂cm
< 0, ∂πB̄∗
M
∂cm
< 0.
Proposition 1a) indicates that when the consumers hold a
higher willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s internal
inspection level, the optimal environmental quality of the fashion
product will be higher. This can then enhance the profit levels of
both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer. While according
to Proposition 1b) and 1c), a higher production cost of the
sustainable fashion product (either with a higher cost coefficient
θ of using environmentally friendly materials or with a higher
basic manufacturing cost cm) can lead to a lower optimal internal
inspection level, although this can lead to the lower profit levels
of both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer.
Proposition 1 therefore provides important managerial in-
sights regarding the impacts of the consumers’ willingness to pay
10With the sequence of events in mind, we follow the backward induction
to solve the objective functions of the fashion retailer and the manufacturer.
By taking the first- and second-order derivations of πB̄
R and πB̄
M , respectively,
we find that πB̄
R and πB̄
M are concave under the conditions of kE > A2
8aβ and
kI > kEB2
8aβkE−A2 . The equilibrium decisions are hence derived.
for the internal inspection level of the sustainable fashion prod-
uct as well as the influences of the sustainable fashion product’s
production cost. Given the complex sourcing networks of the
manufacturer in the fashion industry [47] and the subsequently
limited information traceability, consumers in the fashion in-
dustry can hold credibility concerns over the fashion product’s
eco-label. The fashion retailer’s internal inspection then be-
comes critical for enhancing the consumers’ overall willingness
to pay for the sustainable fashion product. This result there-
fore highlights the importance of information disclosure and
transparency, which can help reduce the consumers’ credibility
concerns over the information provided by the fashion product’s
eco-label. As can be seen from Proposition 1, to achieve a higher
optimal internal inspection level, the fashion retailer and the
manufacturer should pay close attention to the production cost.
For instance, if with a relatively high basic manufacturing cost
(e.g., brands like Nike and Timberland, compared with fast
fashion brands like M&S, H&M), the manufacturer can use
economies of scale and advanced production technologies to
reduce the per unit basic production cost. For the case with a
relatively high cost coefficient of using environmentally friendly
materials (e.g., M&S and H&M), different fashion companies
can sometimes join an alliance for sustainable production of
fashion products, like Textile Exchange.11 These companies
can then establish a co-opetition relationship to lessen the huge
burden of environmentally friendly materials sourcing.
B. Blockchain-Based Fashion Supply Chain
Different from the information disclosure game (over the envi-
ronmental efforts) under the traditional fashion supply chain, the
sequence of events under the blockchain-based fashion supply
chain is as below.
1) The fashion retailer first determines the environmental
quality eB and simultaneously launch the blockchain tech-
nology for sharing and releasing the information regarding
the environmental quality of the sustainable fashion prod-
uct. At the same, advertisements on the application of the
blockchain technology for information transparency are
also executed at the level of ηB .
2) Given the environmental quality required by the retailer,
the manufacturing activities are conducted and the manu-
facturer decides the wholesale price wB of each product
offered to the retailer.
3) The retailer accordingly decides the retail price pB of the
sustainable fashion product.
We can then have the respective objective functions of the
fashion retailer and the manufacturer as follows:
max
eB ≥0, ηB≥0, pB ≥0
πB
R =
(
pB − wB
)
dB − kE(e
B)
2
2
− kB(η
B)
2
2
(3)
11[Online]. Available: https://textileexchange.org/members/ (Accessed on
Aug. 2020).
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1322 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
max
wB ≥0
πB
M =
[
wB − (
cm + θeB
)]
dB . (4)
Similarly, the fashion retailer and the manufacturer make their
respective optimal decision(s) by following the sequence of
events. Under the conditions of kE > G2
8aβ and kB > kEτ2
8aβkE−G2 ,
we then have the equilibrium decisions as follows:
eB∗ =
kBG (a− βcm)
kB (8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2
,
ηB∗ =
kEτ (a− βcm)
kB (8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2
,
wB∗ =
a (4akBkE + θkBG)
+cm
[
4aβkBkE − αkBG− kEτ
2
]
kB (8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2
,
and
pB∗ =
a (6akBkE + θkBG)
+cm
(
2aβkBkE − αkBG− kEτ
2
)
kB (8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2
.
The conditions of kE > G2
8aβ and kB > kEτ2
8aβkE−G2 imply that
advertising the environmental quality and the blockchain tech-
nology are both expensive. In practice, for example, compared
to the existing technologies, the high setup cost and transaction
cost of the blockchain technology are known as inevitable due to
technology immaturity and duplicated storage for supply chain
management [52].
Proposition 2: In the fashion supply chain with the support
of the blockchain technology for information transparency: a)
a) ∂eB∗
∂τ > 0, ∂dB∗
∂τ > 0, ∂πB∗
R
∂τ > 0, ∂πB∗
M
∂τ > 0; b) ∂ηB∗
∂θ < 0,
∂dB∗
∂θ < 0, ∂πB∗
R
∂θ < 0, ∂πB∗
M
∂θ < 0; c) ∂eB∗
∂cm
< 0, ∂ηB∗
∂cm
< 0,
∂dB∗
∂cm
< 0, ∂πB∗
R
∂cm
< 0, ∂πB∗
M
∂cm
< 0.
Similarly, Proposition 2 reveals managerial insights on the
impacts of the consumers’ willingness to pay for information
disclosure and transparency of the sustainable fashion product
as well as the influences of the sustainable fashion product’s
production cost. Given that blockchain can effectively reduce
the consumers’ credibility concerns over the information on the
environmental quality of the fashion product, a higher consumer
willingness to pay for the blockchain advertisement level can
then contribute to a higher optimal environmental quality of
the fashion product. This consequently increases the profits of
both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer. In the meantime,
Proposition 2b) and Proposition 2c) proves the robustness of
the findings in Proposition 1, regarding the influences of the
production cost of the sustainable fashion product. That is,
despite the approach for information disclosure, minimizing the
production cost of the sustainable fashion product is always
of great importance, so that more efforts can be devoted into
enhancing the environmental performance (i.e., through the
utilization of environmentally friendly materials).
V. COMPARISONS AND IMPLICATIONS
In this section, we compare the equilibrium solutions of
the two information disclosure games and investigate how the
performance of the blockchain technology in enhancing in-
formation transparency over the environmental efforts. Define:
Δe = eB∗ − eB̄∗, Δ πR = πB∗
R − πB̄∗
R , Δ πM = πB∗
M − πB̄∗
M .
Proposition 3: a) If τ2 > 8aβφδkIkEkB+kBGH
kIkEA :
i) eB∗ > eB̄∗, ii) ∂Δe
∂cm
< 0; b) If τ2 < 8aβφδkIkEkB+kBGH
kIkEA :
i) eB∗ > eB̄∗ if and only if cm > a
β −
gφξB̄E [kB(8aβkE−G2)−kEτ2]
(8aβkE+AG)kIkBφδ+(kBGB2−kIAτ2)kE
eB∗ < eB̄∗ if and
only if cm < a
β − gφξB̄E [kB(8aβkE−G2)−kEτ2]
(8aβkE+AG)kIkBφδ+(kBGB2−kIAτ2)kE
; ii)
∂Δe
∂cm
> 0.12
Proposition 3 characterizes how the consumer’s willingness
to pay for the fashion retailer’s blockchain advertisement level
impacts the value of blockchain in improving the optimal en-
vironmental quality of the sustainable fashion product. As can
be observed above, as long as the consumer’s willingness to
pay for the fashion retailer’s blockchain advertisement level
is sufficiently high (i.e., τ2 > 8aβφδkIkEkB+kBGH
kIkEA ), applying
blockchain for information disclosure can always increase the
optimal environmental quality of the fashion product. Whereas
if the consumer’s willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s
blockchain advertisement level is not that high (i.e., τ2 <
8aβφδkIkEkB+kBGH
kIkEA ), a higher optimal environmental quality
of the fashion product can be achieved if and only if the basic
manufacturing cost of the fashion product is sufficiently high.
This is because when the consumers are less sensitive to the
advertisement over information disclosure and transparency, the
fashion retailer can stimulate the market demand and make more
profits only by a higher environmental quality, which is of great
importance when the basic production cost is high.
Proposition 3 shows managerial insights about the impacts
of the consumers’ willingness to pay for information disclo-
sure and transparency from the perspective of their preference
toward the fashion retailer’s blockchain advertisement level.
In the marketing and economics literature, it has been widely
acknowledged that advertising is a signal of product quality
[53], [54]. The advertising spending is believed to be positively
correlated to product quality. A high consumers’ willingness
to pay here signifies the signaling role of the fashion retailer’s
blockchain advertisement level over the environmental quality
of the fashion product. A higher consumer willingness to pay
for the blockchain advertisement level thus can raise the value
of blockchain in improving the optimal environmental quality
of the sustainable fashion product.
Proposition 4: a) If τ2 > kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2 , πB∗
R >
πB̄∗
R ; b) If τ2 < kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2 , πB∗
R < πB̄∗
R ; c)
∂ΔπR
∂τ2 > 0.
Proposition 5: a) If
τ2 >
kIkBJ + kEkB(a− βcm)B2 − 8aβ2kIkEkBgφξ
B̄
E
kIkE(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )
,
12Notice that replacing the condition of τ2 by the condition of τ would not
influence our findings. For ease of presentation, we therefore use the condition
of τ2 to show our key findings throughout the whole article.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1323
πB∗
M > πB̄∗
M ; b) If
τ2 <
kIkBJ + kEkB(a− βcm)B2 − 8aβ2kIkEkBgφξ
B̄
E
kIkE(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )
,
πB∗
M < πB̄∗
M ; c) ∂ΔπM
∂τ2 > 0.
Propositions 4 and 5 further support the critical signaling role
of the blockchain advertisement level over the environmental
quality of the fashion product from the profits of both the
fashion retailer and the manufacturer. Together with Proposition
3, we can see that a higher consumer willingness to pay for
the blockchain advertisement level can bring a higher value of
blockchain for information disclosure in the fashion industry.
Define the environmental performance of the sustainable fash-
ion product under the traditional fashion supply chain and the
blockchain-based fashion supply chain as EP B̄ = eB̄ dB̄ , and
EPB = eB dB , respectively. Accordingly, we have ΔEP =
EPB∗ − EP B̄∗.
Proposition 6: a) If
τ2 >
kIkBJ + kEkB(a− βcm)B2 − 8aβ2kIkEkBgφξ
B̄
E
kIkE(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )
,
EPB∗ > EP B̄∗; b) If
τ2 <
kIkBJ + kEkB(a− βcm)B2 − 8aβ2kIkEkBgφξ
B̄
E
kIkE(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )
,
EPB∗ > EP B̄∗ if and only if
δ >
G{kI(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )[kB(8aβkE −G2)− kEτ
2]}2{ −
kB(a−βcm)[kI(8aβkE−A2)−kEB2]}2}
}
βθφ{(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )[kB(8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2]}2
,
EPB∗ < EP B̄∗ if and only if
δ<
G{kI(a− βcm − βgφξ
B̄)[kB(8aβkE−G2)−kEτ2
E ]}2
−{kB(a− βcm)[kI(8aβkE −A2)− kEB
2]}2}
βθφ{(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )[kB(8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2]}2
.
Proposition 6 highlights the value of blockchain for the
environmental performance of the sustainable fashion prod-
uct. As we can observe from Proposition 6a), given the
enhanced information transparency and eliminated credibil-
ity concerns, a high consumer willingness to pay for the
fashion retailer’s blockchain advertisement level (i.e., τ2 >
kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2−8aβ2kIkEkBgφξB̄E
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
) can always bring a
better environmental performance of the fashion product. This
is a result of the strong signaling role of the fashion re-
tailer’s blockchain advertisement activities, which can in-
duce a high optimal environmental quality level of the fash-
ion product. When the consumer willingness to pay for the
blockchain advertisement level is relatively low (i.e., τ2 <
kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2−8aβ2kIkEkBgφξB̄E
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
), however, blockchain
can bring more value in the environmental performance only
when the manufacturer’s underperformance level over the use
of environmentally friendly material(s) is high
(i.e., δ >
G{kI(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )[kB(8aβkE −G2)− kEτ
2]}2
−{kB(a− βcm)[kI(8aβkE −A2)− kEB
2]}2}
βθφ{(a− βcm − βgφξB̄E )[kB(8aβkE −G2)− kEτ2]}2
).
It is therefore, important for the fashion retailer to search and
know the credibility level of the contracted manufacturer, so
as to decide whether to launch blockchain or not. Proposi-
tion 6 accordingly complements the managerial insights on the
aforementioned impacts of the signaling role of the blockchain
advertisement level, from the perspective of the contracted man-
ufacturer’s credibility level.
VI. EXTENDED MODEL: RISK CONSIDERATIONS
In the above discussions, we exclude the risk attitudes of
the fashion retailer and the upstream manufacturer. In real-
ity, however, the everchanging fashion market is always with
uncertainties and risks. Given that decision makers can have
different risk attitudes toward uncertainties and risks [49], [50],
we next explore the influences brought by the risk attitudes
of the fashion retailer and the upstream manufacturer (toward
the market uncertainty). We define the operational risks that
the fashion retailer and the upstream manufacturer may face
as the market uncertainty of the sustainable fashion product.
Besides, since the application of the blockchain technology does
not influence the product composition and quality, we do not
consider product uncertainty in this article.
Model R (R denotes for risk considerations) is discussed in
the following, under which both the fashion retailer and the con-
tracted manufacturer can be risk averse, risk neutral, or even risk
seeking toward the market uncertainty. The decision makers’ risk
attitudes have been operationally known as a characteristic of
the choice alternatives regarding the variance of outcomes [60].
Specifically, risk aversion means that the decision makers are
averse to the variance of outcomes (i.e., the profit in this article),
and the variance of the outcomes decrease the objective function.
In contrast, the risk-seeking attitude means that the variance of
outcomes can increase the objective function and thus motivate
the decision makers to take the risks. By integrating the risk
considerations, we therefore perform the optimization problem
in the format of the decision makers’ tradeoff between the profit
and the associated risk. Such a tradeoff reflects the true metric
when it comes to making a decision [61]. Regarding different
risk attitudes here, it is traditionally true that many firms facing
operational risks tend to be risk-averse. In practice, however,
market participants may also exhibit risk-seeking behaviors.
A typical example is the shipping firms who are known for
their risk-taking preferences [56]. To ensure the reliability and
robustness of our findings, we therefore consider all kinds of
risk attitudes as listed above. Without loss of generality, we
assume the market includes N consumers who are interested in
the sustainable fashion product. N is a random variable following
a symmetric distribution with mean μd and variance σd.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1324 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
A. Traditional Fashion Supply Chain Without Blockchain
Under the traditional fashion supply chain, the number of
consumers who will buy the sustainable fashion product is
dR
B̄
= N
∫ a
βpB̄−αeB̄−γξB̄I
g(u)du. Taking expectation with re-
spect to N, the expected market demand for the traditional fash-
ion supply chain is: E [dR
B̄
] = E(
∫ a
βpB̄−αeB̄−γξB̄I
g(u)du) =
μd
a (a+ αeB̄ − βpB̄ + γξB̄I ). We then have the fashion re-
tailer’s profit as follows: πRB̄
R = {(1− φ)(pB̄ − wB̄) + φ[pB̄ +
wB̄ + hξB̄I − gξB̄E (1− ξB̄I )]} N
∫ a
βpB̄−αeB̄−γξB̄I
g(u)du −
kE(eB̄)
2
2 − kI(ξ
B̄
I )
2
2 . The operational risk is quantified by the
standard deviation of the profit, i.e., SD (πRB̄
R ) =
√
V (πRB̄
R )
from the perspective of the fashion retailer. We denote the fash-
ion retailer’s risk attitude parameter as λR, with λR > 0 for the
attitude of risk averse, λR = 0 for risk neutral, and λR < 0 for
risk seeking. Besides, consistent with the practices, the fashion
retailer’s risk attitude parameter λR is bounded by λR < μd
σd
,
which means the fashion retailer will not be “extremely risk
averse.” Similarly, we have λM (λM < μd
σd
) for the risk attitude
of the manufacturer. Following Choi et al. [51], we define the
mean-risk (MR) objective function of the fashion retailer under
the traditional fashion supply chain as ΦRB̄
R , which shows the
fashion retailer’s trade-off between the “expected profit” and the
risks induced by the “standard deviation of profit.” We use the
term “MR benefit” to denote the MR objective function value
for discussions as follows:
ΦRB̄
R = E
[
πRB̄
R
]
− λRSD
(
πRB̄
R
)
= (μd − σdλR)
[
pB̄ − wB̄ + hξB̄I φ− gξB̄E
(
1− ξB̄I
)
φ
]
×
∫ a
βpB̄−αeB̄−γξB̄I
g (u) du− kE(e
B̄)
2
2
− kI(ξ
B̄
I )
2
2
.
(5)
Following the same logic, the MR objective function of the
manufacturer is as follows:
ΦRB̄
M = E
[
πRB̄
M
]
− λMSD
(
πRB̄
M
)
= (μd − σdλM )
×
[
wB̄ − cm − θ (1− δ) eB̄ − φhξB̄I
]
×
∫ a
βpB̄−αeB̄−γξB̄I
g (u) du. (6)
Under the conditions of kE > (μd−σdλR)A2
8aβ and kI >
(μd−σdλR)kEB2
8aβkE−(μd−σdλR)A2 , we have the equilibrium decisions as fol-
lows:
eRB̄∗=
(μd − σdλR) kIA
(
a− βcm − βgφξB̄E
)
kI [8aβkE − (μd − σdλR)A2]− (μd − σdλR) kEB2
,
ξRB̄∗
I =
(μd − σdλR) kEB
(
a− βcm − βgφξB̄E
)
kI [8aβkE−(μd − σdλR)A2]−(μd−σdλR) kEB2
,
wRB̄∗=
(
a− βgφξB̄E
)
[4akIkE + (μd − σdλR)C]
+cm [4aβkIkE − (μd − σdλR)D]
kI [8aβkE−(μd − σdλR)A2]−(μd − σdλR) kEB2
,
and
pRB̄∗ =
a[6akIkE + (μd − σdλR)E]
+(cm + gφξB̄E )[2aβkIkE − (μd − σdλR)F ]
kI [8aβkE − (μd − σdλR)A2]− (μd − σdλR)kEB2
.
Proposition 7: In the traditional fashion supply chain without
the support of the blockchain technology for information trans-
parency: a) a) ∂eRB̄∗
∂γ > 0, ∂dRB̄∗
∂γ > 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
R
∂γ > 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
M
∂γ > 0; b)
∂ξRB̄∗
I
∂θ < 0, ∂dRB̄∗
∂θ < 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
R
∂θ < 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
M
∂θ < 0; c) ∂eRB̄∗
∂cm
< 0,
∂ξRB̄∗
I
∂cm
< 0, ∂dRB̄∗
∂cm
< 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
R
∂cm
< 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
M
∂cm
< 0; d) ∂eRB̄∗
∂λR
< 0,
∂ξRB̄∗
I
∂λR
< 0, ∂dRB̄∗
∂λR
< 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
R
∂λR
< 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
M
∂λR
< 0; e) ∂eRB̄∗
∂μd
> 0,
∂ξRB̄∗
I
∂μd
> 0, ∂dRB̄∗
∂μd
> 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
R
∂μd
> 0, ∂ΦB̄∗
M
∂μd
> 0.13
Proposition 7 first proves the robustness of our previous
findings in Proposition 1. Besides, Proposition 7e) shows that
when the expected market demand is large, it can be optimal to
provide a higher environmental quality together with a higher
internal inspection level. While in the meantime, Proposition
7d) demonstrates the important roles of the fashion retailer’s risk
attitude. As can be seen above, the more risk averse the fashion
retailer is, the lower the optimal environmental quality and inter-
nal inspection level can be. The reason behind is that although
a higher environmental quality and a higher internal inspection
level can both contribute to an increased consumer willingness
to pay for the sustainable fashion product, it also brings more
operational risks when the market is with uncertainties. In par-
ticular, given the imperfect internal inspection, the manufacturer
with a relatively low credibility level can produce the sustainable
fashion product with an underperformed environmental quality.
This, however, can subsequently induce extra goodwill loss to
the fashion retailer. Proposition 7 therefore indicates another
limitation of using the affixed eco-label together with internal
inspection to disclose information on the environmental efforts.
That is, in addition to the inherently imperfectness, the internal
inspection level can be influenced by many operational factors
like the risk attitude of the fashion retailer. This can lead to a
higher level of the consumers’ credibility concerns over the fash-
ion retailer’s eco-label in the traditional fashion supply chain.
B. Blockchain-Based Fashion Supply Chain
Under the blockchain-based fashion supply chain, the number
of consumers who will buy the sustainable fashion product
is dRB = N
∫ a
βpB−αeB−τηB g(u)du. Following the same logic
as in the traditional fashion supply chain, we then have the
respective MR objective functions for the fashion retailer and
13As can be observed from the equilibrium decisions, the market demand
variance σd holds the same influences as the fashion retailer’s risk attitude λR.
We therefore focus on the impacts of the fashion retailer’s risk attitude in the
following discussions.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1325
the manufacturer as follows:
ΦRB
R = (μd − σdλR)
(
pB − wB
) ∫ a
βpB−αeB−τηB
g (u) du
− kE(e
B)
2
2
− kB(η
B)
2
2
− FB
R (7)
ΦRB
M = (μd − σdλM )
×[
wB − (
cm + θeB
)] ∫ a
βpB−αeB−τηB
g (u) du− FB
M .
(8)
Under the conditions of kE > (μd−σdλR)G2
8aβ and kB >
(μd−σdλR)kEτ2
8aβkE−(μd−σdλR)G2 , we have the equilibrium decisions as fol-
lows:
eRB∗=
(μd − σdλR) kBG (a− βcm)
kB [8aβkE − (μd − σdλR)G2]− (μd − σdλR) kEτ2
,
ηRB∗=
(μd − σdλR) kEτ (a− βcm)
kB [8aβkE − (μd − σdλR)G2]− (μd − σdλR) kEτ2
,
wRB∗=
a [4akBkE + (μd − σdλR) θkBG]
+cm [4aβkBkE − (μd − σdλR)K]
kB [8aβkE − (μd − σdλR)G2]−(μd − σdλR) kEτ2
,
and
pRB∗=
a[6akBkE + (μd − σdλR)θkBG]
+cm[2aβkBkE − (μd − σdλR)K]
kB [8aβkE − (μd − σdλR)G2]− (μd − σdλR)kEτ2
.
Proposition 8: In the fashion supply chain with the support
of the blockchain technology for information transparency: a)
a) ∂eRB∗
∂τ > 0, ∂dRB∗
∂τ > 0, ∂ΦRB∗
R
∂τ > 0, ∂ΦRB∗
M
∂τ > 0; b) ∂ηRB∗
∂θ <
0, ∂dRB∗
∂θ < 0, ∂ΦRB∗
R
∂θ < 0, ∂ΦRB∗
M
∂θ < 0; c) ∂eRB∗
∂cm
< 0, ∂ηRB∗
∂cm
<
0, ∂dRB∗
∂cm
< 0, ∂ΦRB∗
R
∂cm
< 0, ∂ΦRB∗
M
∂cm
< 0; d) ∂eRB∗
∂λR
< 0, ∂ηRB∗
∂λR
<
0, ∂dRB∗
∂λR
< 0, ∂ΦRB∗
R
∂λR
< 0, ∂ΦRB∗
M
∂λR
< 0; e) ∂eRB∗
∂μd
> 0, ∂ηRB∗
∂μd
>
0, ∂dRB∗
∂μd
> 0, ∂ΦRB∗
R
∂μd
> 0, ∂ΦRB∗
M
∂μd
> 0.
Similar to Proposition 7, Proposition 8 also shows the reliabil-
ity of our previous findings in Proposition 2, as well as highlights
the influences brought by the fashion retailer’s risk attitude as
mentioned above.
C. Discussions
We next examine the impacts brought by the risk attitudes of
the fashion retailer and the upstream manufacturer towards the
uncertainties in the market of the sustainable fashion product.
Proposition 9: a) If τ2 > 8aβφδkIkEkB+(μd−σdλR)kBGH
(μd−σdλR)kIkEA :
i) eRB∗ > eRB̄∗, ii) ∂Δe
∂cm
< 0; b) If τ2 <
8aβφδkIkEkB+(μd−σdλR)kBGH
(μd−σdλR)kIkEA : i) eRB∗ >
eRB̄∗ if and only if cm > a
β −
gφξB̄E {kB [8aβkE−(μd−σdλR)G2]−(μd−σdλR)kEτ2}
(μd−σdλR)[8aβkEkIkBφδ+(μd−σdλR)(kBGH−kIkEAτ2)] ,
eRB∗ < eRB̄∗ if and only if cm < a
β −
gφξB̄E {kB [8aβkE−(μd−σdλR)G2]−(μd−σdλR)kEτ2}
(μd−σdλR)[8aβkEkIkBφδ+(μd−σdλR)(kBGH−kIkEAτ2)] ; ii)
∂ΔeR
∂cm
> 0.
Findings in Proposition 9 proves that our previous findings
on the impacts of the consumers’ willingness to pay for the
fashion retailer’s blockchain advertisement level still hold even
under the risk considerations. To ensure the success of launching
the blockchain program for information disclosure, therefore,
the fashion retailer should always pay close attention to the
signaling role of the blockchain advertisement level over the
environmental quality of the fashion product.
Proposition 10: a) If τ2 > kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2 ,
ΦB∗
R > ΦB̄∗
R ; b) If τ2 < kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2 ,
ΦB∗
R > ΦB̄∗
R if and only if (μd − σdλR) <
8aβkEkIkB [(a−βcm)2−(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2
]
kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2−kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2
τ2
,
ΦB∗
R < ΦB̄∗
R if and only if (μd − σdλR) >
8aβkEkIkB [(a−βcm)2−(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2
]
kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2−kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2
τ2
; c) ∂ΔΦR
∂τ2 >
0.
Proposition 11: a) If τ2 > kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
,
ΦB∗
M > ΦB̄∗
M ; b) If τ2 < kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
,
ΦB∗
M > ΦB̄∗
M if and only if (μd − σdλR) <
8aβkEkIkBβgφξB̄E
kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2−kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )τ2
,
ΦB∗
M < ΦB̄∗
M if and only if (μd − σdλR) >
8aβkEkIkBβgφξB̄E
kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2−kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )τ2
; c) ∂ΔΦM
∂λM
> 0;
d) ∂ΔΦM
∂τ2 > 0
Propositions 10 and 11 together complement the findings on
the impacts of the signaling role of the blockchain advertisement
level, from the perspective of the fashion retailer’s risk attitude
and the market demand. First, similar to Propositions 4
and 5, we can see that despite the risk attitudes, applying
blockchain for information disclosure is always beneficial
to both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer as long as
the consumer’s willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s
blockchain advertisement level is sufficiently high (i.e.,
τ2 > max(kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
2 , kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
)).
Besides, a stronger signaling role of the blockchain
advertisement can always contribute a larger value of
blockchain in the information disclosure game. However,
if the consumer’s willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s
blockchain advertisement level is not that high, blockchain
can benefit both the fashion retailer and the manufacturer if
and only if the risk aversion level of the fashion retailer or
the market demand uncertainty is sufficiently high.14 This
indicates the market condition when blockchain can bring
more value. Specifically, applying blockchain for information
14It means σdλR > max(μd
− 8aβkEkIkBβgφξB̄
E
σd{kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2−kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄
E
)τ2} ,
μd − 8aβkEkIkB [(a−βcm)2−(a−βcm−βgφξB̄
E
)
2
]
kIkBI+kEkB(a−βcm)2B2−kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄
E
)
2
τ2
).
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1326 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
disclosure and transparency can be a better alternative when the
fashion retailer and the manufacturer are more risk averse or
the market demand is with more uncertainties, while it can only
have limited contributions when the fashion retailer is more
risk seeking or the market demand is more stable. Given the
inherently high-demand uncertainty of innovative products [55],
Propositions 10 and 11 therefore provide important guidelines
to the fashion supply chains’ sustainability practices, such as
the adoption of new and innovative environmentally friendly
materials.
Proposition 12: a) If τ2 > kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
,
EPRB∗ > EPRB̄∗; b) If τ2 < kIkBJ+kEkB(a−βcm)B2
kIkE(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )
,
EPRB∗ > EPRB̄∗ if and only if δ >
G(L2−M2)
βθφ{(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )[8aβkEkB−(μd−σdλR)(kBG2+kEτ2)]}2 ,
EPRB∗ < EPRB̄∗ if and only if δ <
G(L2−M2)
βθφ{(a−βcm−βgφξB̄E )[8aβkE−(μd−σdλR)(kBG2+kEτ2)]}2 .
According to Proposition 12, we can see that the impacts of
contracted manufacturer’s credibility level, which is mentioned
in Proposition 6, are also reliable under the risk considerations.
Consequently, to successfully enhance the environmental per-
formance of the sustainable fashion product via blockchain,
the fashion retailer should fully utilize the available public
reputation systems for launching environmentally responsible
sourcing practices, which helps to better understand the reliabil-
ity of the eco-labeled products provided by the manufacturers
together with the associated operational risks (e.g., the reputation
risks).
VII. CONCLUSION
Motivated by the popularity of environmentally friendly fash-
ion products nowadays, the importance of information trans-
parency for environmental efforts, and the research gap in
the literature, we present analyses of a fashion supply chain
consisting of a fashion retailer and an upstream manufacturer.
This article was the first to conduct a deep investigation on
how the application of the blockchain technology influences
the information disclosure games over the environmental efforts
in the fashion industry. Specific managerial implications are
discussed in the following which provides new insights into
the underexplored area of information disclosure games over
the environmental efforts in the fashion industry. These novel
findings can serve as references for both industrial practices and
future studies of the information disclosure game in the fashion
industry and other retail contexts.
A. Key Findings and Managerial Implications
1) Role of Information Disclosure: Given the complex sourc-
ing networks of the manufacturer in the fashion industry and the
subsequently limited information traceability, consumers in the
fashion industry can hold credibility concerns over the fashion
product’s eco-label. Our analyses highlight the importance of
information disclosure and transparency, which can help reduce
the consumers credibility concerns over the limited information
provided by the affixed eco-label. We find that the fashion
retailer’s internal inspection and the blockchain technology can
both help enhance the consumers’ overall willingness to pay for
the sustainable fashion product. However, to achieve a higher
optimal internal inspection level or a higher blockchain adver-
tisement level, the fashion retailer and the manufacturer should
pay close attention to the production cost of the sustainable
fashion product.
2) Role of the Blockchain Technology: In light of the value
of the blockchain technology, we find that it is closely related
to the consumer’s willingness to pay for the fashion retailer’s
blockchain advertisement level. A high consumer’s willingness
to pay for the blockchain advertisement level, which signifies
the signaling role of the fashion retailer’s blockchain advertise-
ment activities over the environmental quality of the fashion
product, can always raise the value of blockchain in improving
the optimal environmental quality of the sustainable fashion
product as well as in increasing the profits of both the fashion
retailer and the manufacturer. Regarding the value of blockchain
in improving the environmental performance of the sustainable
fashion product, close attention should be paid to the contracted
manufacturer’s credibility level when the consumer’s willing-
ness to pay for the blockchain advertisement level is relatively
low.
3) Impact of the Risk Attitudes: As for the impact of the risk
attitudes, our results show that, in addition to the inherently im-
perfectness, internal inspection also shows its limitations under
the influences of operational factors like the risk attitude of the
fashion retailer. This can lead to a higher level of the consumers’
credibility concerns over the fashion retailer’s eco-label in the
traditional fashion supply chain. Besides, applying blockchain
for information disclosure and transparency can be a better alter-
native when the fashion retailer and the manufacturer are more
risk averse or the market demand is with more uncertainties (e.g.,
fashion products made from innovative sustainable materials),
while can have limited contributions when the fashion retailer
is more risk seeking or the market demand is more stable (e.g.,
fashion products made from general sustainable materials).
B. Limitations and Future Research
While our model captures the essential elements of different
information disclosure games in the fashion industry, other
aspects should be considered in the future. First, we restrict our
attention to the utilization of environmentally friendly materials
in the manufacturing stage. In the future, we may consider
information disclosure games for other sustainability practices
such as the use of child labor in the fashion industry. Second, we
exclude market competition. However, in practice, competition
can happen at both the retailer and the manufacturer levels.
Therefore, it will be interesting to explore the influences of mar-
ket competition on the information disclosure games. Third, this
article focuses on the value of blockchain. Given the availability
of other advanced technologies in the market, the values of other
technologies for information disclosure games deserve further
investigation.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to sincerely thank the editors and three
anonymous reviewers for their constructive comments.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: APPLICATIONS OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY IN SUSTAINABLE FASHION SUPPLY CHAINS 1327
REFERENCES
[1] Ellen MacArthur Foundation, “A new textiles economy: Re-
designing fashion’s future,” 2017. [Online]. Available: http:
//www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications
[2] Z. L. Liu, T. D. Anderson, and J. M. Cruz, “Consumer environmental
awareness and competition in two-stage supply chains,” Eur. J. Oper. Res.,
vol. 218, no. 3, pp. 602–613, 2012.
[3] M. McGrath, “Fast fashion may be in vogue, but what happens to
all the clothes left on the rack?,” 2020. [Online]. Available: https://
www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/life/fashion-beauty/fast-fashion-may-
be-in-vogue-but-what-happens-to-all-the-clothes-left-on-the-rack-
39011024.html
[4] M. Caridi, L. Crippa, A. Perego, A. Sianesi, and A. Tumino, “Do virtu-
ality and complexity affect supply chain visibility?,” Int. J. Prod. Econ.,
vol. 127, no. 2, pp. 372–383, 2010.
[5] E. M. Tachizawa and C. Y. Wong, “Towards a theory of multi-tier sustain-
able supply chains: A systematic literature review,” Supply Chain Manage.,
vol. 19, nos. 5/6, pp. 643–663, 2014.
[6] S. A. Abeyratne and R. P. Monfared, “Blockchain ready manufacturing
supply chain using distributed ledger,” Int. J. Res. Eng. Technol., vol. 5,
no. 9, pp. 1–10, 2016.
[7] G. M. Hastig and M. S. Sodhi, “Blockchain for supply chain traceability:
Business requirements and critical success factors,” Manuf. Oper. Man-
age., vol. 29, no. 4, pp. 935–954, 2020.
[8] J. Wang, P. Wu, X. Wang, and W. Shou, “The outlook of blockchain tech-
nology for construction engineering management,” Front. Eng. Manage.,
vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 67–75, 2017.
[9] K. Francisco and D. Swanson, “The supply chain has no clothes: Tech-
nology adoption of blockchain for supply chain transparency,” Logistics,
vol. 2, no. 1, 2018, Art. no. 2.
[10] H. Pun, J. M. Swaminathan, and P. Hou, “Blockchain adoption for combat-
ing deceptive counterfeits,” Kenan Institute of Private Enterprise Research,
2018, Paper No. 18-18.
[11] V. Babich and G. Hilary, “OM Forum—Distributed ledgers and operations:
What operations management researchers should know about blockchain
technology,” Manuf. Service Oper. Manage., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 223–240,
2020.
[12] B. Z. Niu, Y. Q. Liu, L. Chen, and P. Ji, “Outsource to an OEM or an
ODM? Profitability and sustainability analysis of a fashion supply chain,”
J. Syst. Sci. Syst. Eng., vol. 27, pp. 399–416, 2018.
[13] B. Z. Niu, L. Chen, and J. Zhang, “Punishing or subsidizing? Regulation
analysis of sustainable fashion procurement strategies,” Transp. Res. E,
Logistics Transp. Rev., vol. 107, pp. 81–96, 2017.
[14] K. Murali, M. K. Lim, and N. C. Petruzzi, “The effects of ecolabels and
environmental regulation on green product development,” Manuf. Service
Oper. Manage., vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 519–535, 2019.
[15] C. H. Chiu, T. M. Choi, X. Li, and C. K. F. Yiu, “Coordinating supply
chains with a general price-dependent demand function: Impacts of chan-
nel leadership and information asymmetry,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage.,
vol. 63, no. 4, pp. 390–403, Nov. 2016.
[16] T. M. Choi, Y. J. Cai, and B. Shen, “Sustainable fashion supply chain
management: A system of systems analysis,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage.,
vol. 66, no. 4, pp. 730–745, Nov. 2019.
[17] Q. G. Bai, M. Y. Chen, and L. Xu, “Revenue and promotional cost-sharing
contract versus two-part tariff contract in coordinating sustainable supply
chain systems with deteriorating items,” Int. J. Prod. Econ., vol. 187,
pp. 85–101, 2017.
[18] S. Guo, T. M. Choi, and B. Shen, “Green product development under
competition: A study of the fashion apparel industry,” Eur. J. Oper. Res.,
vol. 280, no. 2, pp. 523–538, 2020.
[19] Z. F. Hong and X. L. Guo, “Green product supply chain contracts consid-
ering environmental responsibilities,” Omega, vol. 83, pp. 155–166, 2019.
[20] H. K. Chan, R. W. Y. Yee, J. Dai, and M. K. Lim, “The moderating effect of
environmental dynamism on green product innovation and performance,”
Int. J. Prod. Econ., vol. 181, pp. 384–391, 2016.
[21] H. X. Yang, J. W. Luo, and H. J. Wang, “The role of revenue sharing and
first-mover advantage in emission abatement with carbon tax and consumer
environmental awareness,” Int. J. Prod. Econ., vol. 193, pp. 691–702,
2017.
[22] Q. H. Zhu, X. Y. Li, and S. L. Zhao, “Cost-sharing models for green product
manufacturing and marketing in a food supply chain,” Ind. Manage. Data
Syst., vol. 118, no. 4, pp. 654–682, 2018.
[23] S. M. Hosseini-Motlagh, S. Ebrahimi, and A. Jokar, “Sustainable supply
chain coordination under competition and green effort scheme,” J. Oper.
Res. Soc., 2019, doi: 10.1080/01605682.2019.1671152.
[24] H. Kang, S. Y. Jung, and H. Lee, “The impact of green credit policy on
manufacturers’ efforts to reduce suppliers’ pollution,” J. Clean. Prod.,
vol. 248, 2020, Art. no. 119271. [Online]. Available: https: //doi.org/10.
1016/j.jclepro.2019.119271
[25] X. T. Shi, H. L. Chan, and C. W. Dong, “Value of bargaining contract in a
supply chain system with sustainability investment: An incentive analysis,”
IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 50, no. 4, pp. 1622–1634,
Apr. 2020.
[26] S. Huang and J. Yang, “Information acquisition and transparency in a
supply chain with asymmetric manufacturing cost information,” Int. J.
Prod. Econ., vol. 182, pp. 449–464, 2016.
[27] M. Zhao, C. W. Dong, and T. C. E. Cheng, “Quality disclosure strategies
for small business enterprises in a competitive marketplace,” Eur. J. Oper.
Res., vol. 270, no. 1, pp. 218–229, 2018.
[28] S. Chen, Q. Q. Zhang, and Y. P. Zhou, “Impact of supply chain transparency
on sustainability under NGO scrutiny,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 28,
no. 12, pp. 3002–3022, 2019.
[29] J. Peng, G. P. Tu, Y. H. Liu, H. Zhang, and B. B. Leng, “The integration role
of governmental information disclosure platform an evolutionary game
analysis of corporate environmental monitoring data fraud,” Kybernetes,
vol. 49, no. 5, pp. 1347–1379, 2019.
[30] T. M. Choi, L. P. Feng, and R. Li, “Information disclosure structure in
supply chains with rental service platforms in the blockchain technology
era,” Int. J. Prod. Econ., vol. 221, 2020, Art. no. 107473. [Online].
Available: https: //doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.08.008
[31] A. Sengupta, “Competitive investment in clean technology and uninformed
green consumers,” J. Environ. Econ. Manage., vol. 71, pp. 125–141, 2015.
[32] H. K. Chan, J. Griffin, J. J. Lim, F. L. Zeng, and A. S. F. Chiu, “The impact
of 3D printing technology on the supply chain: Manufacturing and legal
perspectives,” Int. J. Prod. Econ., vol. 205, pp. 156–162, 2018.
[33] R. S. Ulloa, A. F. M. Cawley, G. A. Santelices, and R. Pascual, “Technology
investment effects in performance-based maintenance contracts,” Int. J.
Prod. Res., vol. 56, no. 7, pp. 2628–2645, 2018.
[34] S. Saberi, J. M. Cruz, J. Sarkis, and A. Nagurney, “A competitive multi-
period supply chain network model with freight carriers and green tech-
nology investment option,” Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 266, no. 3, pp. 934–949,
2018.
[35] J. X. Zhang, R. Dai, Q. Zhang, and W. S. Tang, “An optimal energy
efficiency investment and product pricing strategy in a two-market frame-
work,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 48, no. 4, pp. 608–621,
Apr. 2018.
[36] M. X. Du, Q. J. Chen, J. Xiao, H. H. Yang, and X. F. Ma, “Supply chain
finance innovation using blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage., vol. 67,
no. 4, pp. 1045–1058, Nov. 2020.
[37] M. H. ur Rehman, M. Habib, K. Salah, E. Damiani, and D. Svetinovic,
“Trust in blockchain cryptocurrency ecosystem,” IEEE Trans. Eng. Man-
age., vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 1196–1212, Nov. 2020.
[38] T. M. Choi, “Creating all-win by blockchain technology in supply chains:
Impacts of agents’ risk attitudes towards cryptocurrency,” J. Oper. Res.
Soc., pp. 1–16, 2020, doi: 10.1080/01605682.2020.1800419.
[39] K. Murali, M. K. Lim, and N. C. Petruzzi, “The effects of ecolabels and
environmental regulation on green product development,” Manuf. Service
Oper. Manage., vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 519–535, 2019.
[40] J. Huang, M. Leng, L. Liang and C. Luo, “Qualifying for a government’s
scrappage program to stimulate consumers’ trade-in transactions? Analy-
sis of an automobile supply chain involving a manufacturer and a retailer,”
Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 239, no. 2, pp. 363–376, 2014.
[41] X. Wang, M. Leng, J. Song, C. Luo, and S. Hui, “Managing a supply chain
under the impact of customer reviews: A two-period game analysis,” Eur.
J. Oper. Res., vol. 277, no. 2, pp. 454–468, 2019.
[42] M. R. Galbreth and B. Ghosh, “Competition and sustainability: The impact
of consumer awareness,” Decis. Sci., vol. 44, no. 1, pp. 127–159, 2012.
[43] S. Baksi and P. Bose, “Credence goods, efficient labelling policies, and reg-
ulatory enforcement,” Environ. Resour. Econ., vol. 37, no. 2, pp. 411–430,
2007.
[44] R. C. Savaskan and L. N. Van Wassenhove, “Reverse channel design: The
case of competing retailers,” Manage. Sci., vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 1–14, 2006.
[45] S. H. Cho, X. Fang, S. Tayur, and Y. Xu, “Combating child labor: Incentives
and information disclosure in global supply chains,” Manuf. Service Oper.
Manage., vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 692–711, 2019.
[46] A. Kolk and R. Van Tulder, “The effectiveness of self-regulation: Corporate
codes of conduct and child labour,” Eur. Manage. J., vol. 20, no. 3,
pp. 260–271, 2002a.
[47] A. Kolk and R. Van Tulder, “Child labor and multinational conduct:
A comparison of international business and stakeholder codes,” J. Bus.
Ethics, vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 291–301, 2002b.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/publications
https://www.belfasttelegraph.co.uk/life/fashion-beauty/fast-fashion-may-be-in-vogue-but-what-happens-to-all-the-clothes-left-on-the-rack-39011024.html
https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01605682.2019.1671152
https: ignorespaces //doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.119271
https: ignorespaces //doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.08.008
https://dx.doi.org/10.1080/01605682.2020.1800419
1328 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT, VOL. 70, NO. 4, APRIL 2023
[48] E. L. Porteus, “Investing in reduced setups in the EOQ model,” Manage.
Sci., vol. 31, no. 8, pp. 998–1010, 1985.
[49] T. Ma, A. Grubler, and Y. Nakamori, “Modeling technology adoptions
for sustainable development under increasing returns, uncertainty, and
heterogeneous agents,” Eur. J. Oper. Res., vol. 195, no. 1, pp. 296–306,
2009.
[50] J. E. Smith and C. Ulu, “Risk aversion, information acquisition, and
technology adoption,” Oper. Res., vol. 65, no. 4, pp. 1011–1028, 2017.
[51] T. M. Choi, J. Zhang, and Y. J. Cai, “Consumer-to-consumer digital-
product-exchange in the sharing economy system with risk considerations:
Will digital-product-developers suffer?,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern.,
Syst., vol. 50, no. 12, pp. 5049–5057, 2020.
[52] A. Kumar, R. Liu, and Z. Shan, “Is blockchain a silver bullet for supply
chain management? Technical challenges and research opportunities.”
Decis. Sci., vol. 51, no. 1 pp. 8–37, 2020.
[53] P. Nelson, “Advertising as information,” J. Political Econ., vol. 82, no. 4,
pp. 729–754, 1974.
[54] P. Milgrom and J. Roberts, “Price and advertising signals of product
quality,” J. Political Econ., vol. 94, no. 4, pp. 796–821,1986.
[55] G. Raz, C. T. Druehl, and V. Blass, “Design for the environment: Life-cycle
approach using a newsvendor model,” Prod. Oper. Manage., vol. 22, no. 4,
pp. 940–957, 2013.
[56] T.-M. Choi, S.-H. Chung, and X. Zhuo, “Pricing with risk sensitive
competing container shipping lines: Will risk seeking do more good than
harm?,” Transp. Res. B Methods, vol. 122, pp. 210–229, 2020.
[57] R. E. Dunlap, “International attitudes towards environment and devel-
opment,” in Green Globe Yearbook of International Co-Operation on
Environment and Development. Oxford, U.K.: Oxford Univ. Press, 1994,
pp. 115–126.
[58] L. T. Bei and E. M. Simpson, “The determinants of consumers’ purchase
decisions for recycled products: An application of acquisition-transaction
utility theory,” in NA Advances in Consumer Research. Provo, UT, USA:
Assoc. Consum. Res., 1995.
[59] C. Chen, “Design for the environment: A quality-based model for green
product development,” Manage. Sci., vol. 47, no. 2, pp. 250–263, 2001.
[60] E. U. Weber, C. J. Anderson, and M. H. Birnbaum, “A theory of perceived
risk and attractiveness,” Org. Behav. Human Decis. Processes, vol. 52,
no. 3, pp. 492–523, 1992.
[61] J. Rubio-Herrero and M. Baykal-Gürsoy, “Mean-variance analysis of the
newsvendor problem with price-dependent, isoelastic demand,” Eur. J.
Oper. Res., vol. 283, no. 3, pp. 942–953, 2020.
[62] Q. Y. Zhu and M. Kouhizadeh, “Blockchain technology, supply chain
information, and strategic product deletion management,” IEEE Trans.
Eng. Manage., vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 36–44, Jan.–Mar. 2019.
[63] C. Griffy-Brown, H. Miller, V. Zhao, D. Lazarikos, and M. Chun, “Making
better risk decisions in a new technological environment,” IEEE Eng.
Manage. Rev., vol. 48, no. 1, pp. 77–84, Jan–Mar. 2020.
[64] T. M. Choi, “Blockchain-technology-supported platforms for diamond
authentication and certification in luxury supply chains,” Transport. Res.
E, Logistics Transportation Rev., vol. 128, pp. 17–29, 2019.
[65] M. Mehrjoo and Z. J. Pasek, “Risk assessment for the supply chain of fast
fashion apparel industry: A system dynamics framework,” Int. J. Prod.
Res., vol. 54, no. 1, pp. 28–48, 2016.
[66] T. M. Choi and C. H. Chiu, “Mean-downside-risk and mean-variance
newsvendor models: Implications for sustainable fashion retailing,” Int.
J. Prod. Econ., vol. 135, no. 2, pp. 552–560, 2012.
[67] T. M. Choi, J. Zhang, and T. E. Cheng, “Quick response in supply chains
with stochastically risk sensitive retailers,” Decis. Sci., vol. 49, no. 5,
pp. 932–957, 2018.
[68] M. Morenza-Cinos, V. Casamayor-Pujol, and R. Pous, “Stock visibility
for retail using an RFID robot,” Int. J. Phys. Distrib. Logistics Manage.,
vol. 49, no. 10, pp. 1020–1042, 2019.
[69] S. Mondal, K. P. Wijewardena, S. Karuppuswami, N. Kriti, D. Kumar, and
P. Chahal, “Blockchain inspired RFID-based information architecture for
food supply chain,” IEEE Internet Things, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 5803–5813,
Jun. 2019.
[70] P. J. Zelbst, K. W. Green, V. E. Sower, and P. L. Bond, “The impact of
RFID, IIoT, and blockchain technologies on supply chain transparency,”
J. Manuf. Technol. Manage., vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 441–457, 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:24:22 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles true
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /sRGB
  /DoThumbnails true
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo true
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts true
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Algerian
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BlackItalic
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BaskOldFace
    /Batang
    /Bauhaus93
    /BellMT
    /BellMTBold
    /BellMTItalic
    /BerlinSansFB-Bold
    /BerlinSansFBDemi-Bold
    /BerlinSansFB-Reg
    /BernardMT-Condensed
    /BodoniMTPosterCompressed
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /BritannicBold
    /Broadway
    /BrushScriptMT
    /CalifornianFB-Bold
    /CalifornianFB-Italic
    /CalifornianFB-Reg
    /Centaur
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /Chiller-Regular
    /ColonnaMT
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CooperBlack
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FootlightMTLight
    /FreestyleScript-Regular
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /HarlowSolid
    /Harrington
    /HighTowerText-Italic
    /HighTowerText-Reg
    /Impact
    /InformalRoman-Regular
    /Jokerman-Regular
    /JuiceITC-Regular
    /KristenITC-Regular
    /KuenstlerScript-Black
    /KuenstlerScript-Medium
    /KuenstlerScript-TwoBold
    /KunstlerScript
    /LatinWide
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaBright
    /LucidaBright-Demi
    /LucidaBright-DemiItalic
    /LucidaBright-Italic
    /LucidaCalligraphy-Italic
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaFax
    /LucidaFax-Demi
    /LucidaFax-DemiItalic
    /LucidaFax-Italic
    /LucidaHandwriting-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Magneto-Bold
    /MaturaMTScriptCapitals
    /MediciScriptLTStd
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /Mistral
    /Modern-Regular
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MS-Mincho
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /NiagaraEngraved-Reg
    /NiagaraSolid-Reg
    /NuptialScript
    /OldEnglishTextMT
    /Onyx
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Parchment-Regular
    /Playbill
    /PMingLiU
    /PoorRichard-Regular
    /Ravie
    /ShowcardGothic-Reg
    /SimSun
    /SnapITC-Regular
    /Stencil
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /TempusSansITC
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Bold
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-BoldCond
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-BoldIt
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Cond
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-CondIt
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /VinerHandITC
    /Vivaldii
    /VladimirScript
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryStd-Demi
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 150
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /ColorImageResolution 900
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.00111
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages true
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.40
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 150
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /GrayImageResolution 1200
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.00083
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages true
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.40
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 1200
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 1600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.00063
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <FEFF004200720075006700200069006e0064007300740069006c006c0069006e006700650072006e0065002000740069006c0020006100740020006f007000720065007400740065002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e007400650072002c0020006400650072002000650067006e006500720020007300690067002000740069006c00200064006500740061006c006a006500720065007400200073006b00e60072006d007600690073006e0069006e00670020006f00670020007500640073006b007200690076006e0069006e006700200061006600200066006f0072007200650074006e0069006e006700730064006f006b0075006d0065006e007400650072002e0020004400650020006f007000720065007400740065006400650020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e0074006500720020006b0061006e002000e50062006e00650073002000690020004100630072006f00620061007400200065006c006c006500720020004100630072006f006200610074002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020006f00670020006e0079006500720065002e>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Suggested"  settings for PDF Specification 4.0)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice