Block-D2D: Blockchain-enabled Cooperative D2D-assisted Fog Computing Scheme under Imperfect CSI
Block-D2D: Blockchain-enabled Cooperative
D2D-assisted Fog Computing Scheme under
Imperfect CSI
Rajesh Gupta∗, Student Member, IEEE, Tejal Rathod†, Sudeep Tanwar§, Senior Member, IEEE
∗†‡ Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Institute of Technology, Nirma University, Ahmedabad, Gujarat, India
Email: ∗18ftvphde31@nirmauni.ac.in, †tejal.rathod611@gmail.com, §sudeep.tanwar@nirmauni.ac.in
Abstract—Fog computing (FC) supports cloud computing ser-
vices at the edge of the device for more secure and reliable access
and processing of the stored data. However, it is beneficial for
time-sensitive applications, where the required delay is minimum,
but not well suited for mission-critical applications, where the
required delay is negligible. To fulfill this requirement, the
authors worldwide started integrating FC with device-to-device
(D2D) communication. But it was potentially affected by massive
interference, which does not improve the total sum rate and
secrecy capacity of the wireless channel. Motivated from these
gaps, in this paper, we propose a blockchain-enabled cooperative
D2D-assisted FC scheme under imperfect CSI in the presence of
an eavesdropper called Block-D2D to enhance the total sum rate
and secrecy capacity. We used non-orthogonal multiple access
(NOMA) scheme for D2D pairs to improve the aforementioned
characteristics. Still, the data on the device is not fully secure,
which can be modified by any malicious user. This can be pro-
tected using blockchain technology, which is immutable, secure,
and trusted. To improve the secrecy capacity of the network
and spectral efficiency, we used a cooperative game theory.
Simulation results show that the elevated performance of the
NOMA-based Block-D2D scheme compared to the conventional
OFDMA scheme in terms of sum rate, secrecy capacity, and
system throughput.
Index Terms—Blockchain, device-to-device communication, fog
computing, NOMA.
I. INTRODUCTION
A wireless sensor network (WSN) consists of a large
number of sensor nodes that are interconnected to form a
wide communication network. It possesses a small size, low
cost, low power consumption, and other features. Sensors
are power constrained small network devices, which do not
support large computation capabilities. To achieve robust and
high computing capabilities in WSNs, centralized cloud com-
puting is a viable solution, which delivers a flexible stack
of substantial computing, storage, and software services in a
scalable and virtualized manner at low-cost [1]. Its provisions
configure and reconfigure the servers as and when needed by
the end-users. WSN is integrated with cloud computing to
mitigate its shortcomings, like storage capacity (data collected
by sensor nodes) and processing. Cloud computing is efficient
in storage and processing capabilities but not suitable for those
applications which require instantaneous results for decision
making. Such applications would be autonomous vehicles,
the internet of vehicles, border surveillance, etc. Instead of
latency, the other major limitations of cloud computing are
the single point of failure, security, and privacy, which leads
to huge data loss. The latency issue has been resolved with the
ultra-reliable low-latency communication (URLLC) property
of fifth-generation (5G) networks, but still, other issues like
security and privacy persist.
The new paradigm, such as fog computing (FC), becomes
a feasible solution to cloud computing’s aforementioned is-
sues. It offers massive end-user support, fast data access and
processing, a device-driven communication environment, and a
heterogeneous network interface [2], [3]. To satisfy the rapidly
growing need for wireless data services, the FC brings com-
puting, storage, and intelligence capabilities near to the user
by offloading the required data services and applications from
the centralized cloud server. It offers high security, availability,
and reliability compared to the cloud and a well adaptable
solution for some mission-critical applications. The computing
and storage capabilities of fog nodes (in FC) are limited,
which may not handle massive connectivity and processing.
This restricts its real-time implementation. So, there is a need
for distributed processing, which shares the load of fog nodes
efficient processing.
The device-to-device (D2D) communication is a perfect
solution for the aforementioned issues in FC. It allows the
nearby devices to communicate via Bluetooth or WiFi Direct
by bypassing the base station between [4]. It improves band-
width, spectrum efficiency, security, privacy, and flexibility
due to its short-range communication. D2D communication
minimizes the data traffic on the data servers, such as fog
nodes, by extending the storage, computing, processing, and
communication capabilities within the proximity range. It
relies on the collaboration of nearby devices instead of sending
data to the remote fog node or fog server for storage and
processing. This D2D-assisted FC is perfectly suitable for
all mission-critical or time-sensitive applications. Such type
of communication is more affected by different types of
interferences (interference from cellular user, another D2D
user, and eavesdropper) and noises. Very little work has been
done in this field by researchers across the globe. Many of
them have taken care of resource and channel allocation but
neglect the effect of interference and noise in the wireless
fading channel, which is impractical [5]–[7]. A very few
authors tackled the security issues but not considered the
eavesdropper, which is too under the perfect channel state
information (CSI), impractical in a real scenario. The existing
literature of D2D-enabled FC also does not guarantee trust
and transparency among the D2D nodes, which increases the
security and privacy risks of data in communication.
Motivated from the aforementioned talk, in this paper, we
present a blockchain-enabled cooperative D2D-assisted FC
scheme called Block-D2D under the presence of an eavesdrop-
per. We also assumed the channel state is imperfect, which
978-1-7281-9441-7/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
20
21
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
ns
 W
or
ks
ho
ps
 (I
C
C
 W
or
ks
ho
ps
) |
 9
78
-1
-7
28
1-
94
41
-7
/2
0/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
C
W
or
ks
ho
ps
50
38
8.
20
21
.9
47
35
24
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:13:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
means a channel realizes the fading and noise. The D2D
communication is not having any fixed infrastructure, which
increases eavesdroppers’ involvement that overhears the com-
munication between the D2D transmitter and D2D receiver.
The traditional D2D-aided FC schemes use orthogonal fre-
quency division multiplexing access (OFDMA), which serves
one user at a time. It reduces spectrum efficacy. To increase
the spectral efficiency, in this paper, we have considered the
communication among D2D receiver and transmitter follows
the non-orthogonal multiple access (NOMA) scheme, which
serves multiple users at a time. NOMA also takes care of the
intra-user interference (from D2D transmitter to D2D receiver)
with their successive interference cancellation (SIC) technique.
In SIC, a user correctly decodes its signal from the given
signal by removing other signals interference. As NOMA
increases the spectral efficiency, total sum rate, and secrecy
capacity of the wireless channel, data security, privacy, trust,
and transparency at the device persists.
To overcome the aforementioned issue, this paper integrates
public blockchain technology with the cooperative D2D-aided
FC scheme under imperfect CSI. Blockchain is a chain of
blocks that grows with each transaction and is linked through
cryptographic hash values. The blockchain block comprises
transaction data, timestamp, nonce, and a cryptographic hash
of the previous block [8]. Blockchain has many characteristics
such as immutability, distribution, security, and trust, which
makes it difficult for an eavesdropper to decode the message
correctly [9]. Any D2D user can participate in transaction/data
exchange via blockchain if it has a valid certificate issued by
the registration authority. This eliminates the involvement of
intruders/eavesdropper. According to the aforementioned char-
acteristics, we believe that blockchain would be an appropriate
technology to deal with mutual authentication challenges in
an exceedingly FC environment for both individuals and
organizations in managing and authenticating their identities
[10]. The main contribution of this technology is to allow
communication between heterogeneous devices. This commu-
nication is accomplished without depending on any centrally
trusted devices or authority.
A. Motivation
The motivation of this study is as follows.
• The existing studies on the integration of D2D and FC
were entirely focused on resource allocation, channel
allocation, and security. But, they neglect the presence of
eavesdroppers, which can compromise the privacy of their
proposed systems. So, there is a need for a system that
increases data communication security in an integrated
D2D-FC enabled scheme with the active involvement of
an eavesdropper.
• Researchers worldwide have used the OFDMA scheme
for data offloading/downloading, which essentially serves
one user at a time. It reduces spectral efficiency. Thus,
a system needs to be designed with a NOMA scheme,
which serves multiple requests at a time and improves
the channel spectral efficiency.
B. Contributions
Motivated from the aforementioned facts (mentioned in
Section I-A), following are the research contributions of this
paper.
• We propose a blockchain-enabled cooperative D2D-
assisted FC scheme to ameliorate the performance in
terms of delay, security, privacy, spectral efficiency, trust,
interference minimization, bandwidth requirement, and
transparency.
• We integrate NOMA with the D2D-assisted FC system
to mitigate the intra-user interference between the D2D
transmitter and D2D receivers.
• A cooperative game theory has been applied to improve
the total sum rate and secrecy capacity.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II presents system model and problem formulation with chan-
nel based and blockchain-based security. Section III presents a
cooperative game theoretic approach to improve sum rate and
channel secrecy capacity. Section IV discussed the results and
performance evaluation of the proposed Block-D2D scheme,
and finally, Section V concludes the paper.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
This section elaborates the system and channel modeling
for blockchain-assisted cooperative D2D-enabled FC scheme
under imperfect CSI. Fig. 1 shows a scenario in which both
D2D users and eavesdropper coexists. D2D users can be either
D2D transmitter (DT ) or D2D receiver (DR). The eavesdrop-
per (E) in a scenario can be any D2D user (either DTx or
DRx). Consider a cellular user (Z) and D2D user (X ) sets
as Z = {1, 2, . . . , z, . . . , Z} and X = {1, 2, . . . , x, . . . ,X}
respectively. Any xth D2D receiver Dx
R is strong or weak that
decides upon its geographical location, whether it is within the
cell radius (δ) or not. Any D2D transmitter DT (∀DT ∈ X )
communicates with the D2D receiver DR (∀DR ∈ X ) us-
ing NOMA scheme, whereas the cellular user z (z ∈ Z)
opts OFDMA to establish a communication with the base
station/fog node over resource block (Ω). In our scenario, there
exists two categories of D2D users, which are cooperative
(these are those D2D users which takes part in distributing
storage and processing capabilities) and non-cooperative (not
helping storage and processing capabilities). The cooperative
and non-cooperative D2D users are represented as Dc
T/R ∈ X
and Dnc
T/R ∈ X , respectively, where DT/R is any D2D trans-
mitter of receiver. The D2D users (with D2D/edge devices)
reduces the burden of fog node by performing calculations
and computations locally. It also minimizes the spectrum usage
(by minimizing data offloading from device to the fog node)
and enhances the decision capabilities for various mission-
critical applications such as autonomous vehicles, unmanned
aerial vehicles, connected cars, etc. If the data is massive, then
D2D devices are not capable to process it due to its limited
battery and computation constraints. In such case, the data
(only emergency data) need to migrate to the set of fog nodes
at the fog layer (in Fig. 1) N = {1, 2, . . . , n, . . . , N} for
further processing, otherwise, migrate it to the cloud layer.
The data can be emergency (Datae) or non-emergency
(Datane) data based on their nature. Datae can cause instant
and severe damages to the people or public properties if not
processed on time. Examples of Datae are breaking and
control decisions for autonomous vehicles. The security of
data is also utmost important against the eavesdropper E
in this scenario. It can be achieved using the integration
of blockchain technology, which is distributed, immutable,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:13:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
trusted, and transparent in nature. It ensures security using
public-private key cryptography and digital signatures.
CU-BS Link D2D Link DTx-Eavesdropper 
Link
CU-D2D 
Interference
Fog Node/
Base Station
C
lou
d
 L
ayer
F
og L
ayer
M
ob
ile D
evice L
ayer
Third-Party Servers/ Services
Device-Cloud 
Gateway
Fog-Cloud 
Gateway
Forwarding 
Base Station
Non-Emergency 
Data
Emergency Data
F
or
w
ar
d
in
g 
L
ay
er
Intelligence
D2D Receiver D2D Tranmitter Cellular User Eavesdropper Intelligence
Blockchain
Fig. 1: Block-D2D: System Model.
A. Channel-based Security
As per the discussion in Section I, there are very few
researches that have focused on minimizing data offloading
to the fog node and efficacy of mission-critical applications to
make instant decisions with cooperative D2D communication.
Moreover, they have taken the channel conditions as perfect,
which is unrealistic in the case of dynamic wireless commu-
nication. So, this paper considered the channel conditions as
imperfect, i.e., imperfect CSI at the transmitter side (Dx
T ),
which encounters path loss, fading, shadowing, noise, and
interference. The fading is considered as Rayleigh fading,
and the interferences as cellular user Z to D2D Dx
R (also
called cross channel interference) and intra-user interference
(between Dx
R’s, where x ∈ {1, 2, . . . , i}, value of i ≤ number
of D2D receivers). The channel gain (ζ) of the zth cellular
user to the nth base station/fog node over an orthogonal uplink
channel is calculated as follows.
ζz,n =
√
1− ϑζ̃z,n +
√
ϑζ̂z,n (1)
where ϑ is the channel variance, which decides the channel is
perfect of imperfect. So, the Eq. 1 represents the channel gain
between CU and fog node, likewise the cooperative channel
gain ζ between xth Dx
T and Dx
R (x > 0) is calculated as
follows [11].
ζDT ,DR
=
[
√
1− ϑζ̃xDT ,DR
+
√
ϑζ̂xDT ,DR
]
Dc
T/R
(2)
In our scenario, we have considered an eavesdropper also,
which is the part of D2D user only. The non-cooperative
channel gain between
1) zth cellular user and eavesdropper E
ζz,E =
[
√
1− ϑζ̃z,E +
√
ϑζ̂z,E
]
Dnc
T/R
(3)
2) xth D2D user, i.e., Dx
R and eavesdropper E
ζx,E =
[
√
1− ϑζ̃x,E +
√
ϑζ̂x,E
]
Dnc
T/R
(4)
where Dc
T/R and Dnc
T/R represents the cooperative and non-
cooperativeness of the D2D receivers/transmitters, respec-
tively. We consider the link between cellular user and fog
node is always cooperative. So, our main focus is towards
the communication security between the D2D users such as
DT and DR by mitigating or reducing intra-user interference
(also called NOMA interference). It is an interference of weak
D2D user towards the strong D2D user, where |ζϕs
Dx
R
| ≥ |ζϕw
Dx
R
|.
ζϕs
Dx
R
is the channel gain of xth strong DR and ζϕw
Dx
R
is the
channel gain of xth weak DR. Any DT send a message or
data (µ) to the weak D2D user (ϕ), which is geographically
located at the edge of network and is represented as follows
[12].
µϕw
DT
= $1 + νxDT ,ϕw
(5)
$1 =
(√
ξxDT
Υϕw
Mϕw
DT
+
√
ξxDT
Υϕs
M′ϕw
DT
)
ζxDT ,ϕw
(6)
where Mϕw
DT
and M′ϕw
DT
is the actual message transfer by
any xth DT to the xth DR. ζxDT ,ϕw
is the channel gain
of xth weak user. νxDT ,ϕw
is the additive white Gaussian
noise from xth DT to the weak user ϕw. Υϕw and Υϕs
are the data message transmit powers weak and strong user
respectively. The channel gain in NOMA is higher due to
reduced interference as it uses SIC technique. The SINR (Φ)
at the weak user is calculated as follows.
Φϕw
DT
=
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,ϕw
|2[
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,ϕs
|2 + ξz|ζxz,ϕw
|2
]
+ σ2
DT ,ϕw
(7)
In the proposed system model, an eavesdropper E receives a
signal from D2D transmitters DT only, as the signal from zth
cellular user to nth fog node is assumed as cooperative and
trusted. So, the message received by an eavesdropper E from
the xth DT is as follows [13].
µEDT
= $2 + νxDT ,E (8)
$2 =
(√
ξxDT
ΥEME
DT
+
√
ξxDT
ΥEM′
E
DT
)
ζxDT ,E (9)
The corresponding SINR expression is evaluated as follows.
ΦEDT
=
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,E
|2[
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,E
|2 + ξz|ζxz,E |2
]
+ σ2
DT ,E
(10)
B. Total Sum Rate
The data rates of both strong user, weak user, non-
cooperative user, and eavesdropper are DDT ,ϕs , DDT ,ϕw ,
DDT ,E , DDT ,D′ , respectively is calculated using Shannon
capacity theorem as follows.
DDT ,ϕs
= log2{1+(
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,ϕs
|2[
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,ϕs
|2 + ξz|ζxz,ϕs
|2
]
+ σ2
DT ,ϕs
)}
(11)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:13:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
DDT ,ϕw
= log2{1+(
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,ϕw
|2[
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,ϕs
|2 + ξz|ζxz,ϕw
|2
]
+ σ2
DT ,ϕw
)}
(12)
DDT ,D′ = log2{1+(
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,D′ |2[
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,D′ |2 + ξz|ζxz,D′ |2
]
+ σ2
DT ,D′
)}
(13)
DDT ,E = log2{1 + (
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,E
|2[
ξxDT
|ζxDT ,E
|2 + ξz|ζxz,E |2
]
+ σ2
DT ,E
)}
(14)
The total sum rate (ST ) of any DT is calculated as follows.
ST = DDT ,ϕs
+DDT ,ϕw
+DDT ,D′ +DDT ,E (15)
This shows that the improvement in total sum rate (or data
rate) of the system with NOMA and its SIC technique.
C. Total Secrecy Capacity
The channel secrecy capacity (C) of DT against any non-
cooperative D2D user (D′) and eavesdropper E is represented
as follows.
CDT ,D = [ST − SDT ,D′ ]+ (16)
CDT ,E = [ST − SDT ,E ]+ (17)
The total secrecy capacity is evaluated as follows.
CDT ,Tot = [SDT ,E + θ
X∑
{DT ,DR}6=D′
SDT ,E ] (18)
where CDT ,Tot is the total channel secrecy capacity of DT .
θ is represents the non-cooperative indicator, θ = 1 represents
cooperative D2D user.
D. Blockchain-based Security
The above discussion takes care of imperfect channel
conditions against the non-cooperative D2D user and eaves-
dropper E. For cooperative data processing, the data should
be distributed among the trusted D2D users. But, the data
exchange between DT and DR for cooperative and distributed
processing is not fully protected due to trust issues of non-
cooperative D2D users as well as channel interference. The
solution to the aforementioned issues is the integration of
blockchain technology (β), which ensures trust, transparency,
and protection against any kind of data modification. It is a
chain of immutable blocks, which store metadata as well as
transactions. The hash of the current block (ηC) is calculated
using the hash of the previous block (ηP ) and the block data
(BData). The hash function (one-way function) is represented
as follows [14].
η : {κ} → {0, 1}k,∀κ ∈MDT ,DR
(19)
η(κ) = κ′ (20)
s.t.
η(κ′) 6= κ (21)
η(κ1) 6= η(κ2), κ1 6= κ2 (22)
where κ is a message to the transmitted that belongs to the
set of messages M. κ′ is the hash value of any message κ
transmitted over wireless channel from DT to DR. So, the
hash of the current block is calculated as follows.
ηC = {ηP ⊕ TimestampT0 ⊕ f ⊕Nonce0} (23)
A node (DR) receives a message κ from DT , but it needs
to be validated to establish the trust, whether the message κ
received from cooperative user (Dc
T/R), non-cooperative user
(Dnc
T/R), or eavesdropper (E) [15].
Vβ : X × T → {True, False} (24)
(x, Tj)→ Vβ(x, Tj) (25)
If the result of Vβ(x, Tj) is True, then the transaction from
xth DT is considered to be valid, then it is forwarded to all the
participants/members (all DR) by adding it to the blockchain
β.
Tj .append(T ) (26)
Blockchain is distributed, each DR and DT have a copy of the
entire ledger with them. Each participant of the blockchain is
having a wallet. If the transaction is not valid, i.e., Vβ(x, Tj)
is False, then a fixed is to be deducted from the participant’s
wallet as a penalty and mark that particular participant as non-
cooperative. The decidability on the selection of blockchain β
member is based on the certificate issued by the registration
authority RA. Fig. 2 shows the flow of the entire process from
participant registration to the transaction publish. Blockchain
has a smart contract, which takes a decision the storing of D2D
participant’s DT transaction Tj into the block of a blockchain
β. A participant first creates a transaction and sends it to the
blockchain β. Before storing transaction into the blockchain,
it first met the conditions of smart contract SC. A SC verify
the participant’s certificate issued by the registration authority
RA. It then checks the status of the certificate, whether it is 0
(not given permission) or 1 (given permission). If it is 1, then
store the transaction into the blockchain β, otherwise, deny the
request and ask to get a certificate from RA. A SC eliminates
the need for trusted third-party systems which establishes the
trust between DT and DR.
The ultimate goal of the proposed scheme is to maximize
Registration 
Authority 
(RA)
Participant
DT, DR
Smart 
Contract
Request to publish 
transaction 
Request denied 
(certificate not 
available)
Request for 
registration 
certificate
A
na
ly
ze
 th
e 
pa
rt
ic
ip
an
t b
eh
av
io
r 
an
d 
de
vi
ce
 p
ro
ce
ss
in
g 
ca
pa
bi
li
ti
es
Certificate issued 
with status (0-not 
approved/ 1-
approved)
Request to publish 
transaction with 
certificate
Analyze
certificate 
status (0/1)
Check for
registration
certificate 
Publish_to
Blockchain
Status =1
Request declined (not 
an authenticated 
participant)
Status=0 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
8
Fig. 2: Flow of the proposed scheme from participant regis-
tration to the transaction publish.
the total sum rate and secrecy capacity of the communication
channel between DT and DR. The communication should
be protected against the eavesdropper as well as the non-
cooperative D2D user using the SIC technique of NOMA.
Algorithm 1 shows the blockchain-based secrecy-ensured
message transfer between DT and DR.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:13:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Algorithm 1 Blockchain-based secrecy-ensured message
transfer between DT and DR.
Input: DT → Total number of D2D transmitters and DR →
Total number of D2D receivers.
Output: Secrecy-ensured data transfer between DT and DR.
Step 1: The SIC technique of NOMA helps to mitigate the
intra-user interference.
Step 2: NOMA allocated different power coefficients to
the D2D users, i.e., DR based on the strong and weak
classification.
Step 3: Both Step 1 and Step 2 assures the correct delivery
of message to the DR, but cannot protect information from
eavesdroppers (passive listeners).
Step 4: A blockchain β ensures high secrecy even against
the eavesdropper also.
Step 5: A blockchain SC verifies the transaction storage
request is from the valid user or not.
Step 6: A SC verification process is shown in Fig. 2.
Step 7: The proposed system ensures high security by
combining interference mitigation and blockchain.
III. COOPERATIVE GAME FORMULATION
The cooperative game is used to create a D2D pair between
transmitter and receiver, i.e., DT and DR, based on the
following parameters
• Distance γ of DR from DT . Based on distance the D2D
users has been classified as strong (ϕs) or weak (ϕw).
• Status of certificate issued by the RA, i.e., status ∈ {0,1}.
Status=1 means a valid certificate has been issues to
the participant for transaction processing and storage,
otherwise not.
Then, the utility function to create a DT and DR pair is as
follows.
f = λ(Dx
T , D
x
R) < δmax + status(certificate) (27)
where f is a utility function between xth Dx
T and Dx
r . λ
is a function that calculates the distance between DT and
DR. δmax specifies the max radius δ of the cell. The game
parameters of the proposed scheme are as follows.
• Player: D2D devices/users (DT and DR) int the network
• Payoff : Creation of DT and DR pair for data exchange.
• Resource: Actual message.
• Strategy: The working of proposed algorithm.
In this game formulation, the D2D user pair forms Y disjoint
coalitions (where two coalitions are mutually exclusive) to
enhance the sum rate and secrecy capacity of the wireless
channel.
H ∈ {H1,H2, . . . ,Hy, . . . ,HY }, (28)
Hy ∩H′y = φ (29)
∪Xy=1Hy = X (30)
The D2D users can change their coalitions in order to im-
prove the data rates. This coalition shifting is also called as
switching. It converges towards the maximal solution.
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
This section shows the evaluation results and performance
evaluation of the proposed Block-D2D scheme. The results are
TABLE I: Parameters for simulation
Parameters Values
Cell Layout Circular
Cell Area 300mx300m
Radius (δ) 30m
Number of CUs ((Z)) 4 –5
Number of D2D pairs (X ) 4 –10
Bandwidth (B) 30MHz
Number of DTx 2
Maximum transmit power of DTx (Υx) 20dBm
Maximum transmit power of CU (Υz) 35dBm
Estimation error variance (ϑ) 0.1
Path Loss Exponent 4
Fig. 3: Achieved sum rate of Block-D2D with respect to
OFDMA scheme.
evaluated based on both network (NOMA integration into the
proposed scheme) and blockchain parameters. The subsequent
subsections show the detailed description of the evaluation of
Block-D2D based on the aforementioned parameters.
A. Network-based Evaluation
The proposed Block-D2D scheme is accessed against the
OFDMA scheme and Table I shows the parameters considered
for the simulation.
Fig. 3 represents the comparison of the total sum rate of the
proposed Block-D2D with respect to the conventional OFDMA
scheme. The x-axis of the graph represents the number of
cellular users and D2D pairs. It is inferred from the graph that
the total sum rate of Block-D2D improves with the increase
in the number of cellular users and D2D pairs, which is due
to disjoint coalition and switching, whereas the sum rate of
the conventional OFDMA scheme decreases with an increase
in cellular users and D2D pairs, which causes excessive noise
and interference.
Fig. 4 represents the comparison of achieved secrecy
capacities of the proposed Block-D2D and the conventional
OFDMA scheme. It is inferred from the graph that the total
secrecy capacity of Block-D2D improves drastically with the
increase in the number of cellular users and D2D pairs. It is
due to the SIC technique of NOMA as well as blockchain
technology.
B. Blockchain-based Evaluation
Fig. 5 shows the throughput comparison of existing non-
blockchain and the proposed Block-D2D scheme in the pres-
ence of eavesdropper or malicious user. We observe that the
increase in the number of D2D users in the traditional non-
blockchain-based systems decreases the average throughput of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:13:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 4: Achieved secrecy capacity of Block-D2D with respect
to OFDMA scheme.
Fig. 5: Throughput comparison of Block-D2D and non
blockchain-based systems in the presence of eavesdropper.
the system due to the decoding of (n − 1) users signals to
decode its signal correctly. This does not affect the throughput
of the proposed Block-D2D scheme.. The smart contract of the
proposed Block-D2D scheme is compiled and executed over
Remix integrated development environment and get the byte
code. It then deployed in the Remix testing environment to
test, debug, and publish the smart contract. Fig. 6 shows the
smart contract functions with their parameters executed over
Remix using solidity language.
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we proposed a novel Blockchain-based D2D-
aided FC system to facilitate services to mission-critical appli-
cations. The proposed system improves both the sum rate and
channel secrecy capacity of the network by minimizing the
Fig. 6: Interface of the proposed Block-D2D scheme deploy-
ment and testing of the smart contract over Remix IDE.
processing delay and the effect of interference and noise. To
achieve a high sum rate and secrecy capacity, we introduce
the SIC technique NOMA for D2D pairs. This not only
minimizes the interference but also minimizes the effect of an
eavesdropper. Further, to increase the spectral efficiency and
secrecy rate, we formulated a coalition game. The simulated
results show that the proposed system is superior compared the
traditional OFDMA technique with the increasing number of
D2D pairs and CUs in terms of sum rate, channel secrecy
capacity, and processing delay. In the future, we will take
into account the co-channel interface to further enhance the
sum rate and secrecy capacity of the wireless communication
channel.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work is supported by Visvesvaraya Ph.D. Scheme for
Electronics and IT by Department of Electronics and Infor-
mation Technology (DeiTY), Ministry of Communications and
Information Technology, Government of India <MEITY-PHD-
2828>.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Alamri, W. S. Ansari, M. M. Hassan, M. S. Hossain, A. Alelaiwi, and
M. A. Hossain, “A survey on sensor-cloud: architecture, applications,
and approaches,” International Journal of Distributed Sensor Networks,
vol. 9, no. 2, p. 917923, 2013.
[2] V. Moysiadis, P. Sarigiannidis, and I. Moscholios, “Towards distributed
data management in fog computing,” Wireless Communications and
Mobile Computing, vol. 2018, 2018.
[3] A. Kumari, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, and N. Kumar, “Fog computing for
healthcare 4.0 environment: Opportunities and challenges,” Computers
and Electrical Engineering, vol. 72, pp. 1 – 13, 2018.
[4] Y. Zhang, E. Pan, L. Song, W. Saad, Z. Dawy, and Z. Han, “Social
network aware device-to-device communication in wireless networks,”
IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 177–
190, 2014.
[5] Y. Lan, X. Wang, D. Wang, Z. Liu, and Y. Zhang, “Task caching, of-
floading, and resource allocation in d2d-aided fog computing networks,”
IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 104876–104891, 2019.
[6] C. Yi, S. Huang, and J. Cai, “Joint resource allocation for device-to-
device communication assisted fog computing,” IEEE Transactions on
Mobile Computing, pp. 1–1, 2019.
[7] P. Gope, J. Lee, R. Hsu, and T. Q. S. Quek, “Anonymous commu-
nications for secure device-to-device-aided fog computing: Architec-
ture, challenges, and solutions,” IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine,
vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 10–16, 2019.
[8] P. Singh, A. Nayyar, A. Kaur, and U. Ghosh, “Blockchain and fog based
architecture for internet of everything in smart cities,” Future Internet,
vol. 12, no. 4, p. 61, 2020.
[9] Y. L. X. Y. Z. S.-H.-J. K. Zhiliang Deng, Yongjun Ren, “Blockchain-
based trusted electronic records preservation in cloud storage,” Comput-
ers, Materials & Continua, vol. 58, no. 1, pp. 135–151, 2019.
[10] Y. Gao, M. Wu, Y. Xiao, P. Yang, B. Fu, and D. Wang, “Blockchain
enabled distributed cooperative d2d communications,” in 2019 Inter-
national Symposium on Networks, Computers and Communications
(ISNCC), pp. 1–6, 2019.
[11] I. Budhiraja, S. Tyagi, S. Tanwar, N. Kumar, and J. J. P. C. Rodrigues,
“Tactile internet for smart communities in 5g: An insight for noma-based
solutions,” IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 5,
pp. 3104–3112, 2019.
[12] I. Budhiraja, S. Tyagi, S. Tanwar, N. Kumar, and M. Guizani, “Cr-
noma based interference mitigation scheme for 5g femtocells users,” in
2018 IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM), pp. 1–
6, 2018.
[13] I. Budhiraja, S. Tyagi, S. Tanwar, N. Kumar, and M. Guizani, “Cross
layer noma interference mitigation for femtocell users in 5g environ-
ment,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 68, no. 5,
pp. 4721–4733, 2019.
[14] V. Gayoso Martı́nez, L. Hernández-Álvarez, and L. Hernandez Enci-
nas, “Analysis of the cryptographic tools for blockchain and bitcoin,”
Mathematics, vol. 8, p. 131, 01 2020.
[15] Coperneec, “How to represent a blockchain through a mathemat-
ical model?.” https://canopee-group.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/
Blockchain-Coperneec.pdf. Accessed: April 2020.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:13:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
		2022-08-24T17:56:50-0400
	Preflight Ticket Signature