T-PASS: A Blockchain-based NFT Enabled Property Management and Exchange System
T-PASS: A Blockchain-based NFT Enabled
Property Management and Exchange System
Hari M K∗, Ankit Agrawal∗, Ritika Bhatia†, Ashutosh Bhatia∗, Kamlesh Tiwari∗
∗∗Dept. of CSIS, BITS Pilani,†Dept. of Management, BITS Pilani
Email:2020mt12359@wilp.bits-pilani.ac.in, {p20190021, p20180022, ashutosh.bhatia, kamlesh.tiwari}pilani.bits-pilani.ac.in
Abstract—Everybody is witnessing a tremendous rise in the
tokenization of all types of assets, including stock, funds, debt,
and intellectual property, as a result of the explosive growth of
decentralized finance (DeFi). Blockchain technology enables users
to convert physical or digital assets into Non-Fungible Tokens
(NFTs) and trade using cryptocurrencies. Blockchain technology
uses a Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) system to enable
immutable, traceable, and safe trading. NFT’s use is currently
restricted to fancy digital artwork, collectibles, games, etc., but
its distinctive capabilities and platforms could be used for more
real-world problems. This paper extends the DeFi applications
with the real estate property assets as NFTs, examines the re-
quirements of NFT-enabled property management and exchange
system, and proposes a model for the same. We discuss the system
design specifications and implementation approach extensively.
The proposed model gives key components and direction for using
NFTs in actual property management issues.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Smart Contracts, NFT, Ethereum,
Property Exchange
I. INTRODUCTION
Blockchain and associated systems are taking the entire
world of technology by storm. It was initially developed to
solve the double-spending problem in cryptocurrencies like
Bitcoin [1]. Since then, blockchain technology has been used
not only in cryptocurrency but also in many diverse fields
like finance, insurance, notary, supply chain, and digital asset
management due to its unique characteristics such as de-
centralization, transparency, immutability, and auditability [2].
Blockchain allows anyone to build a decentralized application
using smart contracts providing a trusted execution environ-
ment necessary for the application [3]. Blockchain works
alongside existing Internet technology, incorporating core
technologies such as a cryptographic consensus mechanism.
Blockchain also provides security by using cryptographic
methods (i.e., hash function, digital signatures, and other
cryptographic techniques) to do transactions in a decentralized
fashion [4].
Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), another trendy application of
Blockchain technology, enable the system to create and store a
digital blueprint or DNA of physical assets considered a proper
digital form of the physical asset and Proof of Ownership of
the specific asset [5]. The digital assets may include Digital
DNA of Artworks, IPRs, Digital Arts, and similar assets
[6]. This allows the possibility of transferring ownership of
these assets over the Blockchain network for a specified value
which could be paid through the currency supported by the
Blockchain network holding the NFTs.
NFTs have become popular and widely accepted worldwide
for Artwork and other assets. NFTs are widely accepted be-
cause of their unique features such as uniqueness, ownership,
tradable, rarity, etc. This work utilizes this concept to create
Real Estate Properties’s digital blueprint. The property based-
NFT will act as proof of complete or partial ownership of a
piece of land, residential or commercial property.
This paper aims to develop a model for creating NFTs
for Real Estate Property Assets on the Blockchain network,
which provides Proof of Ownership to the actual owner of
the property and develops a platform that can generate smart
contracts over the blockchain network. Smart contracts facil-
itate the transfer of ownership of any assets in full or partial
mode. This complete system emulates an NFT Based Property
Exchange platform termed T-PASS (Tokenized Property and
Asset Selling Services). T-PASS handles and manages the
ownership, sale, lease, mortgage, and ownership transfer of
real estate assets by blockchain-enabled NFTs. Each parcel
(the smallest piece of the asset) is converted to an NFT, and
the property or the asset is mapped to an NFT and stored on
the blockchain. This allows an exchange that will function as
a platform to buy/sell/lease the asset linked to these NFTs.
In Blockchain-enabled Real-Estate Property Management
and Exchange Platform, all the stakeholders for any property
will have the right level of access and control to the NFT
created for every marketable or saleable parcel or unit of a
property. The key stakeholders include the Property Devel-
oper, Current Owner, Proposed Owner, Banking Institutions,
Leasing/Mortgage Agencies, Revenue Department, Local Au-
thorities, Utility Companies, and Taxation Authorities.
The exchange will function as a marketplace where these
assets would get listed, and any potential buyer can submit
their bid for an asset. Once all the stakeholders approve or
accept the bid, the transaction would get completed, provided
the value consideration for the asset is available in an escrow
account provided by the buyer or any reputed Banking Institu-
tion supporting the bid. In this paper, we propose a decentral-
ized framework called ”T-PASS” for NFT enabled property
management and exchange system. We discuss the system’s
key requirements, design specifications, and implementation
approach in detail.
The most significant benefit of the proposed solution would
be the capability to handle the complex processes involved
in Real Estate property transactions. Since this solution is
based on Blockchain Technology and provides the facility
140978-1-6654-6268-6/23/$31.00 ©2023 IEEE ICOIN 2023
20
23
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
N
et
w
or
ki
ng
 (I
C
O
IN
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
62
68
-6
/2
3/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
23
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
O
IN
56
51
8.
20
23
.1
00
48
97
3
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
to get consent from all the stakeholders before committing
the transaction, there will be a substantial amount of time to
complete such a transaction today.
II. RELATED WORK
Colored coins is a protocol built upon Bitcoin and have
shown an initial path toward the NFTs. Despite being fungible,
bitcoins can be labeled in such a way that they can be
distinguished from one another. Colored coins allows users
to represent various digital assets that may further be utilized
to create and transfer the asset’s ownership [7]. Due to the
restrictions of the Bitcoin script, Colored Coins had limited
utility. Nevertheless, Colored Coins paved the way for addi-
tional research and provided a foundation for NFTs.
Ethereum has several standards (ERC20, ERC721,
ERC1155) for various tokens (Fungible, Non-Fungible, Semi-
Fungible) to ensure that network interaction are successful.
ERC20 is the most common standard that defines rules that
allow a token to interact with Ethereum applications or other
tokens [8]. However, the ERC20 standard does not provide
how to create distinctive tokens. To achieve this, the ERC721
standard was developed. The ERC721 standard was purposely
developed for creating NFTs on Ethereum blockchain [9].
Additionally, Ethereum has released one more standard,
which is known as ERC1155. ERC1155 provides a common
interface for token management contracts that handle various
token kinds [10]. Any mix of fungible and non-fungible
tokens or other configurations may be used in a single
published contract of ERC1155. Many NFT marketplace
has been developed for NFT creators, such as OpenSea,
AtomicMarket, and many more. Each marketplace offers a
wide range of NFTs, including digital art, books, trading
cards, music albums, movies, virtual worlds, collectibles, etc.
Authors in [11] evaluated NFTs’ creative thinking across
many industries, closely examining their applicability and
influence. Researchers have been looking for NFTs to solve
more practical problems and extend the NFT marketplace. For
instance, authors in [12] presented a scientific report discussing
the requirements of presenting intellectual properties as NFTs.
The authors in [13] have proposed a framework to represent
intellectual property, i.e., patent as NFT.
Due to the pandemic in the last few years, artists and music
creators are connecting people through digital platforms and
generating more revenue. Such digitization makes it necessary
to protect the creator’s content through copyright. Therefore,
the article [14] proposed a model for protecting the copyright
of music industries after representing the music files as NFTs.
Authors in [15] developed a framework where anyone can
create an NFT corresponding to the desired artwork. The
created NFT will automatically be added to one of the NFT
marketplaces (OpenSea) through the wallet. Now the NFT is
publicly available for the user of OpenSea to buy, or the owner
can take it out for auction. The authors in [16] proposed
a framework for NFT-based academic certificates enabling
linking a legitimate NFT-based certificate and its owner.
Tokens and NFTs are more significant components of meta-
verse development, a brand-new digital and online world. The
theoretical underpinnings of cryptocurrencies, tokens, NFTs,
and the Metaverse were examined in [17], along with the
potential for fundraising via token issues for various startups.
To protect the authenticity of the items in the Metaverse,
article [18] ties the idea of NFTs to the Metaverse as the
finest digital asset. Article [19] first evaluates the literature on
the development of tools for managing intellectual property
using blockchain. Additionally, the authors have proposed a
framework employing Blockchain technology to protect the
Building Information Modelling (BIM) design’s intellectual
property. [20] presented a model for creating NFTs containing
real estate information. The proposed model is implemented
in a private blockchain rather than using Ethereum standards,
resulting in a less transparent system. On the other side, we
discuss in depth the system requirements and design speci-
fications of NFT-enabled property management and exchange
system in this paper while considering the Ethereum standards.
III. SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
All the requirements are listed here at an abstract level so
that they can be expanded and implemented during the design
phase. Detailed requirements of T-PASS include:
1) The system should be capable of converting any immov-
able property like real-state asset into the form of NFT
(Non-Fungible Token) which have the capability to hold
all the vital information associated with the property.
2) The system should be capable of creating smart contracts
on the basis of NFC tokens.
3) The smart contract should have interface methods to
transfer the NFT from the present owner to any prospec-
tive owner.
4) The smart contract created should have the option to
add other stakeholders (other than the current owner
and prospective owner) also as active participants in the
contract.
5) The other stakeholders can be one or more from the set
of Revenue Authority, Local Admin Body, Utility Com-
panies, Banks/Fin Institutions, and Taxation Authorities.
6) There should be an option to set the privilege for each
of the stakeholders other than the owners. The privilege
can be of “Notification Only” or “Consent to Modify”.
7) There should be one Escrow Account holder who will
function as the custodian of the transaction. The transac-
tion gets approved once the Escrow Account confirms that
the buyer has sufficient verified buying power available
which can be locked for the specific transaction. The
exchange functions as the role of the escrow account.
8) When a new property is created or constructed, the
builder/realtor should work with the exchange/system to
mint or create the required NFTs in correspondence to
the saleable units that are constructed or created.
9) All the other related stakeholder’s interests and corre-
sponding privileges should be protected while creating
the NFT corresponding to any asset.
141
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1. Subsystem Level View of T-PASS System.
10) The exchange/system should provide the necessary inter-
face for listing all the free-hold assets (NFTs) owned by
either the original or subsequent owners.
11) There should be a front-end interface that facilitates the
current owners to list their assets and prospective buyers
to bid for any listed asset.
12) For other stakeholders, there should be secured APIs for
closing the transaction depending on the privilege level
and applicability of each stakeholder. All the relevant data
should be part of the NFT Token under consideration.
IV. DESIGN SPECIFICATIONS
We list all the key design objectives in accordance with the
system requirements of the proposed system in Table I.
The system-level design in Fig. 1 depicts the interaction be-
tween multiple subsystems for each use case. It also provides
a higher-level view of various subsystems that constitute the
whole proposed T-PASS system.
A. NFT Owners/Creators
This subsystem handles all the owners and creators of the
Tokens representing the real estate property. A creator class
is responsible for creating or minting a new token when a
new property is created (Built by a Builder or Realtor). This
token creation is activated when an existing property with
the ownership documents in fiat form gets converted to an
NFT. Another class of this subsystem corresponds to the set of
NFT owners, which include the methods providing the services
required by users with one or more Tokens under their belt.
B. NFT Buyers
NFT Buyer class has complete services that implement the
buy operation and keep the functionalities of the potential
buyers of the properties. This includes verifying the credentials
of the buyers as well.
C. NFT Minting
The minting service subsystem implements all the func-
tionalities related to minting or creating the valid Token as
ERC721. The minting service creates the Tokens based on the
input attributes shared by the creator. In the current imple-
mentation, the Ethereum test network provided by Ganache is
used as the platform to create and store the tokens.
D. Exchange/Sales
Exchange provides the functionalities required for buy-
ing/selling services of the assets in the tokenized format. This
subsystem performs as the central entity that connects/links
all other subsystems. All the users are onboarded to the
exchange, allowing them to list their properties subject to
the necessary approvals from all the statutory agencies. The
exchange also keeps a secondary database and historical data
for audit and cross-verification purposes of all the NFTs listed
in the exchange, even though all the NFTs are stored in
the blockchain. The exchange classes implement the smart
contract based on the successful bids placed in the system.
We use truffle-based EVM (Ethereum Virtual Machine) and
the associated development environment to create, update, and
manage smart contracts that correspond to each transaction.
E. Blockchain
This subsystem realizes the blockchain network holding all
the NFTs and associated smart contracts. Ethereum blockchain
developed its own high-level programming languages, which
compile into bytecode that runs on the Ethereum Virtual
Machine; its most popular being Solidity, which features a
JavaScript-like syntax. Thus, we chose to develop the smart
contract code for the prototype in Solidity. We relied on the
development framework Truffle, which contains tools for the
deployment of contracts and the testing library Mocha, and
ganache-cli, which provides a local Ethereum blockchain for
testing. In this work, we use a Ganache-based local Blockchain
to execute the smart contracts and transfer the ownership of
the properties in tokenized format.
F. Statutory Approving Authorities
This subsystem realizes north-bound APIs required to get
the transaction authorized by the external and statutory stake-
holders. These authorities include revenue, land records, local
bodies, taxation, banks, and financial institutions. Approval
from these authorities is required right at the time of new NFT
creation. Once an asset token is created, all the ownership-
related attributes are validated with the corresponding au-
thorities and are approved. If any lien/mortgage is with any
financial institution, necessary approval is required to complete
any transaction through the smart contract.
G. User Management/Interface
This subsystem creates all the UI/UX design and implemen-
tation. This also handles user management, including creating
new user accounts, assignment of user privileges, associate
access control, etc.
142
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I
T-PASS DESIGN OBJECTIVES
SN Design Objectives Description Evaluation
1
Digitization
• Digital storage of all data
• Digital exchange of all data
• The methods and processes used to convert all the property
and associated documents to Digital (NFT).
• Providing secured market place for transfer of ownership
of these assets.
These shall be validated for ac-
curacy and effectiveness of the
digitization as well as transac-
tions at the exchange.
2
Primary and Secondary Market transac-
tions
• Managing transactions
• Prices caps
• Charging transaction fees
• The design and implementation of the exchange shall have
the capability to list all the approved new properties as well
as any property that the current owner intent to sell.
• The system would set applicable prices caps to restrict
speculation.
These shall be validated at the
time of design through simula-
tion automation.
3
Distribution of authority and indepen-
dence
• Decentralization
• Trustfulness
• No centralized person can complete the transaction without
the consent of stake holders.
Assessment of efficacy and va-
lidity through testing and de-
scriptive evaluation.
4
Security
• Availability
• Integrity
• Privacy
• Security shall be one of the key considerations while
implementing the design.
• A secure environment is characterized by the accessibility
of resources (availability), the authenticity of the data (in-
tegrity), and the prevention of access to illegitimate users
(privacy).
Consistency and reliability
should be verified using
simulation, testing, and
description evaluation.
5 Validation
• Verifiability of ownership
• To increase trust in the integrity of the system with respect
to: property ownership, transaction execution and control,
notification and control that shall be enforced by the legal,
revenue, and other authorities.
Functional testing and simula-
tion to assess the reliability.
6
Transparency
• View of property ownership
• Access to transaction history
• Assess to the revenue and legal sanity
of the property
• The property details, complete transaction history from the
time of creation or minting
Analysis of accuracy and com-
pleteness through simulation and
descriptive methods.
7
Automation
• No manual interaction required after
setup
• The transaction shall be completed with-
out any manual intervention except for the
approvals from statutory authorities
• There shall be an option ”open” to
complete the statutory authentication in an
automatic manner.
• The exchange system should not be required to perform
any manual action after an initial set up.
• All the approval process shall be performed in an automatic
manner.
• There can be exceptions with respect to the legal and
statutory authentications, this could be done in a phased
manner.
Functionality and reliability
should be assessed through
testing and simulation.
8 Cost Efficiency
• Efficient cost structure
• The fixed cost, per transaction cost and maintenance
cost shall be optimum and economical to make the system
acceptable to a wider population.
Assessment of efficiency
through simulation.
H. Bid Manager
The Bid Manager process all the biddings that various users
submit for the listed assets. This subsystem can create a bid
for a different set of assets listed in the system. The budding
system is capable of recording all the bids, including history
data, validating the bid against various mandatory conditions
specified, create a Dash-Board of the bid status at a given time.
I. Digital Wallet Interface
The system provides the Digital Wallet interface to credit,
debit, and hold the value consideration corresponding to the
Bid or Buy request placed by any prospective buyer or bidder.
The bidder has a sufficient balance in the wallet to place a
successful bid. Upon successful completion and awarding of
the bid, the asset is transferred to the buyer, and corresponding
consideration is credited to the seller’s account. Since this
process is done through smart contracts, these records cannot
be modified after that.
V. DETAILED DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION APPROACH
This phase includes the creation of a detailed design of
various subsystems and modules, identifying the right set
of technologies, tools, development environment, integration
platforms, test environment, etc. The implementation makes
use of proven and industry-standard open-source platforms and
software components. As discussed in the previous sections,
the NFTs corresponding to the underlying assets are created
based on ERC721, the open-source implementation by Open
Zeppelin. The rationale behind this implementation is that it
provides the most widely accepted implementation of ERC71-
based tokens. As the execution environment is concerned, this
work is created in the Truffle platform, and the complete
testing is carried out on the personal blockchain provided by
Ganache. This way, the intent is to prove the technology and
the whole concept at no extra cost for SW licenses or the cost
of Ether/Gas. As the Digital Wallet is concerned, a Metamask-
based virtual digital wallet is used, and all the smart contracts
143
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 2. Sequence Diagram User Creation
are created in solidity.
The above implementation guidelines are for the Blockchain
and NFT-related implementations, but there are multiple other
components that need to be implemented to realize the com-
plete solution. These components include All the User Inter-
face Modules and Subsystems. These are proposed to be de-
veloped using RectJS and redux. Back-End API Development
and implementation. The Back-End API development is being
proposed to be done in NodeJS Data Base Implementation.
The initial thought process was to go with NoSql (MongoDB)
for this implementation; however, the current implementation
is to be done with PostgreSQL.
A. User Creation
This is the first key feature implementation that is carried
out. Once the system is up and running, there can be a
default configuration (based on the config file) active in the
system. The Super User or Admin User is created by default.
When someone wants to get connected with the system, on
the default login page (for existing users), the user enters
the UserID and password to get access and move forward.
Since the master DB for the users is part of the Exchange
subsystem, every CreateNewUser() requests the UserCreate
object of the Exchange subsystem. The exchange does all
the required validations for creating this particular user in
the exchange or not. Once the user credentials and KYC are
verified, the exchange checks for the statutory compliance
check, generally done to ensure no legal compliance issues,
are open with the specific user.
Once the verification of user data is completed, there will
be communication between Digital Wallet and Bid Manager
to update the information about the available users. This will
enable the registration of each user with Bid Manager as
well as the Digital Wallet. Subsequent to this, the UserDB
is updated with the new User Profile. Post DB Update, the
UserManagment UI gets a response stating that the new user
profile is created, requesting the user to log in with new User
Credentials submitted for User Creation.
B. NFT Creation/Minting and Listing in Exchange
This is the feature or the User Story, which has some of
the key functionalities of the system. The NFT Creation, as
Fig. 3. Sequence Diagram of NFT Minting and Listing at Exchange
per ERC721, is done in this story. In addition to minting or
creating, the NFT corresponds to the specific property. Since
listing properties through NFT is a purely upcoming and new
concept, the idea is to implement this method for the new
properties that the real estate developers want to list and sell
to the customers. The developer is the creator (Minter) of the
NFT corresponding to each piece of saleable property that
prefers to list and invite bids from prospective buyers.
Once the properties are ready for listing, the real-estate
developer or the legal owner of the property logins into
the User Management System and invokes the MintReq ap-
plication. To invoke this service, the user provides all the
attributes related to the property, which is verified with the
Statutory Verification Agent. The verification is done with the
Local Bodies, Revenue Department and Financial Institutions.
Suppose the verification fails from any of the mandatory
agencies. In that case, the NFT creation request is aborted, and
a suitable error code is displayed to the user who requested
the NFT creation.
Once the verification is successful, a new token is cre-
ated (minted) and stored on Ganache’s personal Ethereum
blockchain instance. The NFT is created as per ERC721. Upon
successful creation of the token, tokenID is returned to the
user. The tokens are listed in the exchange to enable their
tokens to be visible to the external world. The user sends
a request to the exchange with tokenID and other details
for listing it in the exchange. The exchange validates the
request and the received data for all the mandatory fields and
also for the approval flags from multiple Statutory Validation
Agencies. Once the validation is through and the token cleared
of all obligations, it is listed in the exchange indicating that
the token and the property associated with that are freehold of
the current owner and are available for sale to the successful
bidder.
144
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 4. Sequence Diagram of Bidding Process
C. Bidding for Assets (Properties)
Once the property listing is completed, authorized users can
view the listed properties for bidding. The BidView screen has
all the options to see all the open bids, recently closed ones,
history of bids, multiple search options to see the bid history,
and apply various filters that help the user to analyze previous
bids of similar properties and compare the prices. Also, there
are various Dash Boards with respect to the current/open bids.
Any authorized user can see the BidView page. The user
can select the token/property which is of interest to bid. The
user will enter all the required attributes as per the published
form in the bid screen. As part of the authentication process,
the exchange checks the user’s privilege to submit a bid and
the availability of a sufficient amount available in the Digital
Wallet of the bidder. In case the bidder is pledging another
property owned by the bidder as the EMD for the current
bid, the authenticity of the pledged property is verified by
the Statutory Authentication services. Once all the verification
is successful and everything is in order, the bid is placed in
the system, and the bid details are returned to the user. The
bidders can modify the bid until the bid cut-off time. The bid
is processed post the cut-off time specified at the time of bid
opening.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Blockchain technology provides several key characteristics,
such as decentralization, transparency, immutability, audibility,
and others, that enable the creation of NFTs and allows
users to sell or buy the NFTs through the exchange system.
Researchers utilize the blockchain to solve practical issues
through NFTs such as NFT-based patents. In this paper, we
solved the general issues with property management, such
as time-consuming process and resource wastage, increasing
overhead, difficulty to control or access the data, managing
contracts, managing payments, and communication break-
down. We developed a model for creating NFTs for Real Estate
Property Assets on the Blockchain network, which provides
Proof of Ownership to the real owner of the property. An
exchange system is incorporated in the proposed model where
assets can be listed and provided a platform to buy or sell the
assets. Since NFTs are an integral part of the Metaverse, the
proposed model can also be integrated with the Metaverse. We
will try incorporating the proposed model with the Metaverse
in future work.
REFERENCES
[1] Nakamoto, S. (2008). Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system.
Decentralized Business Review, 21260.
[2] Mohanta, B. K., Panda, S. S., & Jena, D. (2018, July). An overview
of smart contract and use cases in blockchain technology. In 2018 9th
international conference on computing, communication and networking
technologies (ICCCNT) (pp. 1-4). IEEE.
[3] Sreelakshmi K, K., Bhatia, A., & Agrawal, A. (2020). Securing IoT
applications using blockchain: a survey. arXiv e-prints, arXiv-2006.
[4] Buterin, V. (2014). A next-generation smart contract and decentralized
application platform. white paper, 3(37), 2-1.
[5] Chalmers, D., Fisch, C., Matthews, R., Quinn, W., & Recker, J. (2022).
Beyond the bubble: Will NFTs and digital proof of ownership empower
creative industry entrepreneurs?. Journal of Business Venturing Insights,
17, e00309.
[6] Wang, Q., Li, R., Wang, Q., & Chen, S. (2021). Non-fungible to-
ken (NFT): Overview, evaluation, opportunities and challenges. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2105.07447.
[7] Assia, Y., Buterin, V., Hakim, L., & Rosenfeld, M. (2014). Colored
Coins BitcoinX. Colored Coins White Paper, Coloredcoins. org.
[8] “ERC-20 Token Standard”, Available:
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-20/,
accessed: 08-01-2022
[9] “ERC-721 Non-Fungible Token Standard”, Available:
https://ethereum.org/pt/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-721/,
accessed: 10-01-2022
[10] “ERC-1155 Multi-Token Standard”, Available:
https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/standards/tokens/erc-1155/,
accessed: 10-01-2022
[11] Popescu, A. D. (2021). Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT)–Innovation beyond
the craze. In 5th International Conference on Innovation in Business,
Economics and Marketing Research.
[12] Bamakan, S. M. H., Nezhadsistani, N., Bodaghi, O., & Qu, Q. (2022).
Patents and intellectual property assets as non-fungible tokens; key
technologies and challenges. Scientific Reports, 12(1), 1-13.
[13] Bamakan, S. M. H., Nezhadsistani, N., Bodaghi, O., & Qu, Q. (2021). A
Decentralized Framework for Patents and Intellectual Property as NFT
in Blockchain Networks.
[14] Li, N. (2022). Combination of Blockchain and AI for Music Intellec-
tual Property Protection. Computational Intelligence and Neuroscience,
2022.
[15] Vairagade, R., Bitla, L., Judge, H. H., Dharpude, S. D., & Kekatpure,
S. S. (2022, April). Proposal on NFT Minter for Blockchain-based Art-
Work Trading System. In 2022 IEEE 11th International Conference on
Communication Systems and Network Technologies (CSNT) (pp. 571-
576). IEEE.
[16] Zhao, X., & Si, Y. W. (2021, December). NFTCert: NFT-based cer-
tificates with online payment gateway. In 2021 IEEE International
Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain) (pp. 538-543). IEEE.
[17] Szczukiewicz, K. (2021). NFT METAVERSE STARTUPS AND A
POSSIBILITY OF FUNDRAISING THROUGH TOKEN ISSUANCE.
Zeszyty Naukowe UPH seria Administracja i Zarz dzanie, 57(130).
[18] Brown Sr, R., Shin, S. I., & Kim, J. B. (2022). WILL NFTS BE THE
BEST DIGITAL ASSET FOR THE METAVERSE?.
[19] Darabseh, M., & Joo, M. (2021, October). Protecting BIM design
intellectual property with blockchain: review and framework. In Proc.
of the Conference CIB W78 (Vol. 2021, pp. 11-15).
[20] Serrano, W. (2022, March). Real Estate Tokenisation via Non Fungi-
ble Tokens. In The 2022 4th International Conference on Blockchain
Technology (pp. 81-87).
145
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:06 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.