A Blockchain-based Framework for Drone-Mounted Base Stations in Tactile Internet Environment
1
A Blockchain-based Framework for
Drone-Mounted Base Stations in Tactile
Internet Environment
Vikas Hassija1, Vikas Saxena1, and Vinay Chamola2
1Department of Computer Science and Engineering, JIIT, Noida Campus, India
2Department of Computer Science and Information Systems, BITS Pilani, Pilani Campus, India
Abstract—5G, blockchain, and drones are poten-
tially revolutionizing future technologies. 5G promises
to provide a tactile internet environment to the users.
Tactile internet is characterized by ultra-low latency,
with high reliability, security, and availability. Few
attempts have been made in academia and industry
to use drones-mounted small cell base stations. Such
flying base stations can be used in disaster areas,
emergencies, or in rural areas. The major challenge
in deploying such flying base stations is data security.
Drones being resource-constrained devices cannot be
overloaded with heavy security algorithms. Moreover,
the decision of user association, drone movement,
and bandwidth allocation are major bottlenecks in
deploying such networks. In this paper, we propose
a blockchain-based security framework for drone-
mounted base stations in the tactile internet envi-
ronment. Furthermore, a game-theoretic model is
proposed as a smart contract to decide on the dynamic
bandwidth allocation to different users based on
bandwidth availability and cost. Numerical results
show that the proposed model helps in better user
experience in terms of bandwidth allocation in low
network areas.
Index Terms—5G, Tactile internet, bandwidth al-
location, Blockchain, low latency, security, reliability
I. INTRODUCTION
The exponential increase in the number of mobile
devices and consequently computation-intensive
mobile applications such as video streaming, face
recognition, etc. presents a major challenge for mo-
bile network providers. The 5G network promises
a tactile internet environment with features of low
latency, security, privacy, and reliability. Various
attempts have been made in recent years in the
industry as well as research to use drone-mounted
small base stations to provide high and flexible
network coverage [1]. Drone base stations are con-
sidered to be highly efficient for 5G related services
[2]. Drones can dynamically move to different loca-
tions, at different altitudes and can transmit different
power to fulfill the network demands in different
areas at different times [3]. Various algorithms can
be applied to dynamically and automatically move
the drone-mounted base stations in different areas.
Such base stations can have multiple use cases,
such as disaster management, emergency, rural area
development, and supporting high network demands
in case of some events or gatherings. Drones can be
utilized both as a fully functional base station or as
a remote radio head. Few recent works have also
proposed the use of drone-mounted base stations
for integrated access and backhaul operations. Such
drones can simultaneously perform both the above-
discussed functions.
Although there are various benefits of using
drone-mounted base stations for 5G, it also comes
with a number of associated security challenges.
Drones are highly resource-constrained devices, and
installation of heavy-weight security and authenti-
cation algorithms on drones would not always be
feasible. Such algorithms might act as an overhead
and might end up reducing the overall efficiency
and flight time of the drone, thereby making it
impractical to use in real-life scenarios. Also, a
lot of communication would be required among
the drone-mounted base stations and the normal
base stations to decide on the strategic positions
of drones and user association. Such communi-
cation would be further prone to attacks such as
eavesdropping or man-in-the-middle attacks. The
attackers might attempt to capture such information
and might try to use the bandwidth provided by
the drone-mounted base stations for some illegal or
ulterior motives [4], [5], [6].
To prevent the possibility of such security threats,
and to use such frameworks in real-life scenarios,
blockchain is a highly promising security solution
[7]. Blockchain is being repeatedly discussed and
considered in the research and industry for securing
261
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2
Height of drone can be adjusted
 based on current demand
User association can be done 
with drone or ground base station
based on multiple parameters. 
Ground Base Station
Ground user
Aerial user Aerial user
Ground Base Station Ground user
Backhaul 
link
Backhaul 
link
Direct 
link
Access 
link
Access 
link
Access 
link
Access 
link
Access 
link
Direct 
link
Direct 
link
Transmit power 
can be controlled based 
on current drone battery and proximity of 
user from ground base station Drone-mounted 
base station
Drone-mounted 
base station
Drone-mounted 
base station
Fig. 1: A scenario depicting the use and benefits of the drone-mounted base stations.
various drone-related applications. Blockchain is a
distributed network of permissioned or permission-
less nodes that can securely interact with each other
directly, without the use of any centralized third
party. Various smart contracts can also be deployed
on the blockchain network to ensure autonomous
decision making and prevent any disputes or dis-
agreements among the nodes in the network. Using
blockchain, all the data and information exchanges
in wireless communication will be recorded in a
tamper-proof open ledger using cryptographic se-
curity algorithms [8]. Furthermore, various strategic
and game theory-based smart contracts can also be
designed to take immediate and important decisions
such as a shift in bandwidth allocation, changing
the drone speed or height, changing the transmit
power level, changing user association, or other
major decisions.
The major contributions of this work are summa-
rized as follows:
• A permissioned blockchain-based P2P network
of authorized drone-mounted small cell sta-
tions and cellular base stations is created.
• A game theory-based smart contract is de-
ployed on the blockchain network to automati-
cally take the strategic decisions related to user
association, transmit power level, drone speed,
and altitude, etc.
• The smart contract is flexible enough to add
any number of parameters or conditions to
make proper decisions as and when required.
• Numerical results show that the proposed
model helps in better user experience in terms
of bandwidth allocation in low network areas.
II. PROPOSED SYSTEM MODEL AND
BLOCKCHAIN PRELIMINARIES
Blockchain is a widely used peer-to-peer dis-
tributed ledger technology. This technology was
initially used only for banking transactions to make
them secure, fast, and cheap. Gradually, the technol-
ogy became widespread and is currently being used
in almost all domains, including healthcare, trans-
port, data offloading, education, and wireless com-
munication. In the background, the blockchain tech-
nology is empowered with various cryptographic
security algorithms such as SHA 256 and ECDSA.
In this section, we will discuss the system model
of the blockchain-based network of drone-mounted
small cell base stations. The basic steps required to
set up the blockchain network are also discussed
along with the system model.
A. Digital Identity
The blockchain network under consideration
would be a peer-to-peer network of drone-mounted
small cell base stations and ground-based cellular
base stations. Considering the controlled and lim-
ited number of nodes required in the network, it
is proposed to keep it as a private blockchain net-
work. We use the ethereum framework to simulate
and verify the working of the proposed blockchain
network. Each node entering the network would
require a digital identity that will be used for
all future communication. Based on the required
authentication and permissions, new nodes can any
262
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3
Fig. 2: Avoiding data thefts using cryptographic
features of blockchain.
time enter or leave the network. We use the Elliptic
Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) for
the process of key generation. Each node has its
own set of public and private keys. The public
key is used to encrypt the transactions to prevent
issues related to confidentiality and integrity. The
private key is used to digitally sign the transactions
to prevent the issues related to authentication and
non-repudiation.
B. Consensus Algorithm
The consensus is a technical term used to signify
an agreement among the nodes in the peer-to-peer
network. In a centralized architecture, the central
authority or the central server acts as a trust gen-
erator and helps in reaching an agreement among
the participating entities [9], [10]. In a distributed
network, there is no presence of any central author-
ity, and therefore various consensus algorithms are
used to reach to the point of trust in the distributed
environment. The basic consensus algorithm used
in bitcoin is the proof-of-work (POW) algorithm
[11]. In this algorithm, any node that has a specific
amount of storage and computation power can act as
an authority to verify the upcoming transactions and
to add them to the main chain. Such an algorithm
cannot work in the private network setting, as any
arbitrary node cannot be allowed to perform the task
of verification and block addition. The proof-of-
authority (POA) consensus algorithm given by the
ethereum foundation is used in this work to reach
the point of consensus among the participating
nodes [12], [13].
III. NETWORK MODEL FOR DRONE-MOUNTED
SMALL CELL BASE STATIONS
The network model under consideration al-
lows the authorized cellular service providers with
ground-based cellular base stations and private net-
work providers with drone-mounted small cell base
stations to be part of the network. The intuitive idea
behind the framework is to use the drone-mounted
small cell stations to provide network coverage to
the users of different authorized cellular service
providers in remote areas, disaster areas, or areas
having some temporary and unexpected network
demand in case of some public events. The fea-
sibility of establishing a full-fledged ground-based
base station is very low in the above-mentioned
scenarios. Generally, in such scenarios, the users
have to suffer from very low or no network coverage
and this further results in loss of customer trust
and revenue for the cellular service providers. The
big cellular service providers would like to provide
the best possible service to their customers at as
little cost as possible. In such a scenario, the use of
private drone-mounted small cell base stations is a
highly promising solution.
Let the set of ground-based cellular base stations
be denoted by X =
{
X1,X2, ....,Xm
}
and the set
of private drone-mounted small cell base stations
be denoted by Y =
{
Y1,Y2, ....,Yn
}
. Here m
and n are the number of cellular service providers
and drone-mounted small cell base stations. Let
us consider the situation of a public event being
organized in a rural area. The network demand
in such a situation will surely be high, and the
availability of network resources with the cellular
service providers would be low. There can be users
associated with different cellular service providers
from
{
X1,X2, ....,Xm
}
in the area under consid-
eration. The cellular service providers may opt to
hire or rent a private drone-mounted small cell base
station from
{
Y1,Y2, ....,Yn
}
to provide services
to its users that are temporarily present in the rural
area. In such cases, the different cellular providers
may opt to choose the same or different drone-
based cell station based on different criteria of
cost, required bandwidth, time complexity, pending
bandwidth with drone-based cell station and many
other factors.
A. Smart Contract Design
The smart contract is a very important compo-
nent of a distributed blockchain-based network. The
smart contract makes the network intelligent and
self-executable based on the transactions committed
by different users. Based on the design of the
smart contract, automatic decisions can be taken
and executed in the network. The cellular service
providers need not worry about the decision of
263
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4
(1) UE 
(with ANDSF 
Client)
Radio  Access
Networks
(2) LTE eNB
(3) Wi-Fi AP
(6) Legacy
   switch
(7) Application
Server
(8) DNS server
Mobile core network
(4) P-GW
External Data
network
(5) ANDSF server
(a)  (b)
Car WLAN
Drone-mounted
base station
3GPP station
Public WLAN
User WLAN
Location broadcast Smart contract P2P payment Connectivity provision
UE(2)
UE(1)
UE(3)
Fig. 3: Comparison of current and blockchain-enabled cellular models.
using the existing drone-based small cell station
or deploying a new small cell base station. The
service providers just need to set their parameters
and constraints in the smart contract. Based on the
conditions in the smart contract, the decisions will
be taken automatically by the network. The design
of the smart contract can be as complicated as
required and can cater to as many requirements as
needed. The smart contract can also be programmed
to automatically control the user association and
transmit the power level of a base station based on
different conditions. In this paper, we limit the use
of smart contracts to automatically take the decision
of deploying a new drone-based small cell station
in a rural area based on the cost and bandwidth
parameter. The cellular service providers need to
provide the best possible bandwidth to their associ-
ated users and, at the same time, want to minimize
their cost. Let Xa and Xv be two cellular service
providers that want to provide network service to
their users in a rural area. Let Yc and Yd be two
drone-based small cell private base stations that can
assist Xa and Xv to fulfill their requirements at a
certain cost for certain data rates. Let there be M
number of users in the area under consideration,
and the users associated with Xa and Xv be K and
M−K respectively.
The drone-based small cell private base stations,
i.e., Yc and Yd have their own limitations in terms
of bandwidth they can provide, a number of users
they can cater to and the minimum cost they would
be charging. These private base stations also need
to enhance their revenue by providing service to
cellular service providers. To fulfill the constraints
of both the service provider and the consumer,
an auction-based model is designed in the smart
contract to choose the set of best possible service
providers (drone-mounted small cell base stations)
and consumers (cellular service providers). In the
next section, we discuss the auctioning model to
choose the service provider.
B. Auctioning model to choose service provider
Initially, both the service providers and the con-
sumers can set their requirements in the network.
The requirements here are in terms of the cost
charged by service providers and the bandwidth
that the service providers commit to provide. The
cellular service providers also set their minimum
demand in terms of bandwidth requirements and the
cost they are willing to pay. The costs for providing
network coverage as given by drone-mounted small
cell base stations are stored in an array α ={
α1, α2, ...., αm
}
. Similarly, the bandwidth that the
drone-mounted cell stations can provide to the users
are stored in an array β =
{
β1, β2, ...., βm
}
. The
cellular service provider, or in this case, the con-
sumer also mentions its own minimum requirements
in terms of cost and bandwidth. These values are
stored in variables Θ and Γ, respectively. The con-
sumer can also set certain weights to the cost and
time parameters in variables ϕ and ω, respectively.
To perform a fair auctioning, it is imperative
to check that the demand of the consumer is fair
and not unrealistic. To do so, we need first to
calculate the median of the values of cost and
bandwidth provided by drone-mounted base stations
as follows.
i = (j + 1)/2 (1)
Here, j represents the total number of service
providers participating in the auction, and i is
the index of the median value. Similarly, we can
calculate the median of the bandwidth. It is required
to bring the values of cost and bandwidth provided
by the cellular service provider very close to the
median value calculated above. We go on increasing
the minimum cost by the cellular service provider
264
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
5
by a fixed value of τ until the difference between
the median value and Θ becomes near to zero.
Θ = Θ + τ (2)
until,
αi −Θ ∼∼ 0 (3)
The same is done for time or bandwidth requirement
as follows.
Γ = Γ− µ (4)
until,
βi − Γ ∼∼ 0 (5)
Here, µ is the fixed value that reduces the bandwidth
requirement given by cellular service provider to
bring it close to median of bandwidth values pro-
vided by drone-mounted small cell base stations.
IV. ASSIGNING DRONE-MOUNTED BASE
STATIONS TO SERVICE PROVIDERS
Now, based on the values of ϕ and ω, the smart
contract can decide as to which drone-mounted base
station to be used for which service provider. The
values of ϕ and ω are chosen based on the following
constraint.
ϕ+ ω = 1 (6)
In this scenario, there are two major conditions that
influence the decision taken by the smart contract.
In this section, we discuss these conditions.
1) Weight of bandwidth is greater than the
weight of cost
Based on the values of ϕ and ω, the objective
function can be defined as a maximization or
minimization problem. In the first case,
ϕ ≥ ω (7)
In such a case, the objective function Ψ can
be defined as follows.
Maximize : Ψ (Ψc,Ψd) (8)
Here, c and d are the two competing drone-
mounted base stations. The value of Ψ can be
calculated as follows.
Ψi = ϕ ∗ αi + ω ∗ βi (9)
2) Weight of bandwidth is less than weight of
cost
In this case, the objective function will become
the minimization problem as follows.
Minimize : Ψ (Ψc,Ψd) (10)
Iterations
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
C
o
s
t 
(C
e
n
ts
)
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
Cellular Service Provider 1
Cellular Service Provider 2
Cellular Service Provider 3
Cellular Service Provider 4
Fig. 4: Change in cost requirement of the cellular
service provider over iterations.
Based on the above discussed auctioning process,
we try to calculate the changes in cost and band-
width requirement of 4 cellular service providers.
These results are discussed in the next section.
V. NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
To perform the simulation, we consider an auc-
tion scenario where a number of cellular service
providers perform an auction to choose the best
private drone-mounted small cell base station. The
demand of the cellular service providers in terms
of cost and bandwidth requirements are considered
to be in the range of [100, 250] cents for [10, 20]
Mb data per second. The drone-mounted small cell
base stations have different demands ranging from
[150− 500] cents for [5− 15] Mb data per second.
Figure. 4 shows the change in the cost proposed
by the cellular service providers to the private
drone-mounted small cell base stations for provid-
ing network coverage. We can see from the graph
that initially, the cellular service providers were
providing very low cost for the services. Gradually
over iterations, due to the proposed model, the
cost increases until it reaches closer to the median
of the costs given by private network providers.
This increases the overall revenue and welfare of
private service providers. This feature also makes
the dealing between the two parties fair and pre-
vents the big cellular service providers from be-
coming dominant. A similar change in bandwidth
demand by the cellular service provider is shown in
Fig. 5. The bandwidth demand goes on decreasing
over iterations until it reaches close to the median
of the bandwidth provided by the private service
providers.
265
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6
Iterations
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
B
a
n
d
w
id
th
 (
M
b
p
s
)
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
Cellular Service Provider 1
Cellular Service Provider 2
Cellular Service Provider 3
Cellular Service Provider 4
Fig. 5: Change in bandwidth requirement of the
cellular service provider over iterations.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have proposed a small
blockchain-based framework for allowing secure
usage of private drone-mounted small cell base sta-
tions to increase the network coverage. Such flying
base stations can be used in various use cases such
as disaster, public events, rural areas, etc. The use of
blockchain provides a security layer for securing the
inner communication between resource-constrained
unmanned aerial vehicles. A basic smart contract
is also deployed to make automatic decisions and
pricing strategies over the network. The contract
can be made more realistic, and more decisions
can be automated in the further part of this work.
The numerical results show the enhancement in the
welfare of both the parties involved in the network.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work is supported by DST-SERB (Science
and Engineering Research Board (SERB)) funding
under Project Grant File no. ECR/2018/001479.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Fouda, A. S. Ibrahim, I. Guvenc, and
M. Ghosh, “Uav-based in-band integrated ac-
cess and backhaul for 5g communications,” in
2018 IEEE 88th Vehicular Technology Confer-
ence (VTC-Fall). IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–5.
[2] V. Hassija, V. Saxena, and V. Chamola, “A
mobile data offloading framework based on a
combination of blockchain and virtual voting,”
Software: Practice and Experience, 2020.
[3] M. Mozaffari, W. Saad, M. Bennis, and
M. Debbah, “Mobile unmanned aerial vehicles
(uavs) for energy-efficient internet of things
communications,” IEEE Transactions on Wire-
less Communications, vol. 16, no. 11, pp.
7574–7589, 2017.
[4] M. Gapeyenko, V. Petrov, D. Moltchanov,
S. Andreev, N. Himayat, and Y. Koucheryavy,
“Flexible and reliable uav-assisted backhaul
operation in 5g mmwave cellular networks,”
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communi-
cations, vol. 36, no. 11, pp. 2486–2496, 2018.
[5] V. Hassija, V. Chamola, S. Garg, N. G. K.
Dara, G. Kaddoum, and D. N. K. Jayakody, “A
blockchain-based framework for lightweight
data sharing and energy trading in v2g net-
work,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Tech-
nology, 2020.
[6] A. Fotouhi, M. Ding, and M. Hassan, “Flying
drone base stations for macro hotspots,” IEEE
Access, vol. 6, pp. 19 530–19 539, 2018.
[7] G. Bansal, V. Hassija, V. Chamola, N. kumar,
and M. Guizani, “Smart stock exchange mar-
ket: A secure predictive decentralised model,”
in IEEE Globecom, Waikoloa, USA, Dec.
2019, Dec 2019, pp. 1–6.
[8] A. Fotouhi, M. Ding, and M. Hassan, “Flying
drone base stations for macro hotspots,” IEEE
Access, vol. 6, pp. 19 530–19 539, 2018.
[9] T. Alladi, V. Chamola, R. M. Parizi, and K.-
K. R. Choo, “Blockchain applications for in-
dustry 4.0 and industrial iot: A review,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, pp. 176 935–176 951, 2019.
[10] T. K. Vu, M. Bennis, S. Samarakoon, M. Deb-
bah, and M. Latva-Aho, “Joint load balancing
and interference mitigation in 5g heteroge-
neous networks,” IEEE Transactions on Wire-
less Communications, vol. 16, no. 9, pp. 6032–
6046, 2017.
[11] V. Hassija, G. Bansal, V. Chamola, V. Sax-
ena, and B. Sikdar, “Blockcom: A blockchain
based commerce model for smart communi-
ties using auction mechanism,” in 2019 IEEE
International Conference on Communications
Workshops (ICC Workshops), May 2019, pp.
1–6.
[12] S. Garg, G. S. Aujla, N. Kumar, and S. Ba-
tra, “Tree-based attack–defense model for risk
assessment in multi-uav networks,” IEEE Con-
sumer Electronics Magazine, vol. 8, no. 6, pp.
35–41, Nov 2019.
[13] T. Alladi, V. Chamola, J. J. Rodrigues, and
S. A. Kozlov, “Blockchain in smart grids:
A review on different use cases,” Sensors,
vol. 19, no. 22, p. 4862, 2019.
266
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:36 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.