Demo: Blockchain-based Secured and Federated Slice Broker (SFSBroker)
NOMS 2022 - 2022 IEEE/IFIP Network Operations and Management Symposium
Demo: Blockchain-based Secured and Federated
Slice Broker (SFSBroker)
Tharaka Hewa∗, Nisita Weerasinghe∗, Pawani Porambage∗, Madhusanka Liyanage∗‡, Mika Ylianttila∗
∗Centre for Wireless Communications, University of Oulu, Finland
†School of Computer Science, University College Dublin, Ireland
Email: ∗[firstname.lastname]@oulu.fi, †madhusanka@ucd.ie
Abstract—Network slicing is a versatile and distinguishing
capability of the 5th and 6th Generation (5G & 6G) mobile
networks. Network slicing enables the consumers to deliver
individualized and customized telecommunication services on
the commonly shared infrastructure. Slice brokering is the
dedicated service to facilitate the tenants and resource providers
in slice allocation process. We proposed SFSBroker (Secured and
Federated Slice Broker) to leverage the slice brokering process
with the application of game theory. We formulated the optimal
slice selection problem into the Stackelberg game model. The
computational logic has been incorporated on smart contracts.
Furthermore, the proposed architecture includes Security Service
Blockchain (SSB) which has been integrated for Denial of Service
(DoS) attack prevention. We implemented the end to end setup
including tenant request to slice creation using Hyperledger
Fabric blockchain, Katana slice manager, and OpenStack. In
this demonstration, the system provisions to obtain hands-on
experience on the end to end workflow of slice brokering
process. Index Terms—Blockchain, Network slicing, Game theory,
Hyperledger fabric
I. INTRODUCTION
The evolution of the telecommunication technologies in to
5th and 6th Generation(5G & 6G) leverage more sophisticated
consumer use cases in different industrial contexts. The con-
nectivity business models have been revamped towards more
consumer-centric and diversified service delivery capabilities.
The modern telecommunication business models seamlessly
extend towards service oriented models such as infrastructure,
secured computation, data storage, and data sharing by bridg-
ing the gaps between consumers and service infrastructure.
Network slicing is one of the distinguishing strength of
the 5G and beyond telecommunication technology. Network
slicing enables the consumers to share the common infrastruc-
ture for different requirements. Ideally, network slicing enables
the 5G infrastructure providers to deliver more individualized
service provisions on top of the sole infrastructure. Each
network slice comprises of consumer-specific service functions
which are ideally shaped towards the different applications.
The network slices operate independently on top of the shared
infrastructure. Especially, the variety of business network slic-
ing varieties extend with the evolution of local 5G operators,
which function as regional and localized resource providers
for different industry verticals.
Network slice brokering is a dedicated service to lever-
age the slice selection operation efficiently. In general, slice
brokering service interconnects the consumers and resource
providers in order to facilitate optimal slice. There are different
efforts to improve the slice selection process.
Game theory [1], [2] has been applied to improve the
slice selection process. The selection operation has been
incorporated into game models. The players of such game
models consist of tenants and resource providers who have
well-defined objectives in terms of profit and usability. In
contrast, network slicing in multi-operator and multi-tenant
scenarios require on-demand federation of resource providers
per request basis along with low latency selection operation
and high scalability to handle massive consumer groups.
Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) is one of the most
blessing technology with many potential strengths in the future
telecommunications [3] industries. The core principle of
DLT is the cryptographically verified distributive storage of
the entire database of records (i.e., digital ledger) at all the
nodes in a network. Thus, DLT aims to eliminate the use
of a centralized server and brings in place a decentralized
services encoded as smart contracts. As the most popular DLT,
blockchain comprises immutable and timestamped blocks con-
taining validated transactions and connected using hash-based
chain and timestamps. The transactions will be approved upon
the approval within the members of blockchain network, which
is known as the consensus process.
In this paper, we demonstrate the end to end functional
application of the game theory-based selection algorithm in
a near realistic implementation. We encoded the selection
algorithm into the smart contracts to leverage the selection
operation with decentralization to ensure lower latency and
consumer scalability. Furthermore, we incorporated the Secu-
rity Service Blockchain (SSB) that verifies the input and output
transaction request are secured against Denial of Service (DoS)
attacks. We used Hyperledger Fabric blockchain platform as
the blockchain service for SSB and SFSBroker. Furthermore,
the infrastructure provider simulated using OpenStack with
Katana slice manager integration. The implementation setup
provisions ideally demonstrates the end to end slice creation
process as well as tolerance of the SFSBroker with simulated
DoS attacks.978-1-6654-0601-7/22/$31.00 © 2022 IEEE
N
O
M
S 
20
22
-2
02
2 
IE
EE
/IF
IP
 N
et
w
or
k 
O
pe
ra
tio
ns
 a
nd
 M
an
ag
em
en
t S
ym
po
si
um
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-0
60
1-
7/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
N
O
M
S5
42
07
.2
02
2.
97
89
76
4
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NOMS 2022 - 2022 IEEE/IFIP Network Operations and Management Symposium
Smart city
Consumers
Core
Network
PNFPNF
CCore
VNFF
Cloud
Services
PNFPNF
Cl dCloud
S1
Resource monitoring
Traffic monitoring
Resource allocation
Slice creation
RAN
PNFPNFPNFPNF PNFPNFPNFPNFVNF
Backhaul
PNFPNFPNFPNF PNFPNFVNF
Virtualized/Physical Resources/Infrastructure
Resource providers
SFSBroker
Text
Network Slice 1
Network Slice 2
Network Slice 3
Smart hospitals
Smart manufacturing
Federated Network
Slice BrokerFederated Network
Slice Broker
Federated Network
Slice BrokerFederated Network
Slice Broker
Se
cu
rit
y 
Se
rv
ic
e 
Bl
oc
kc
ha
in
SS
LA
 M
an
ag
er
Figure 1. A use case scenario for SFSBroker that serves multiple tenants in different application domains.
II. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE
IoT tenants, SSB, SFSBroker and the resource providers
are the three distinguishing stakeholders in the proposed
architecture. IoT tenants represent the consumer end. Resource
providers represent the local 5G operators and MNOs that offer
the resources to trade within the brokering process, SFSBroker
is the core part of the proposal, which has been integrated
with the IoT tenants and resource providers to facilitate
brokering process. The selection algorithm has been encoded
as the smart contracts on blockchain. Figure 1 reflects the
SFSBroker architecture. The three distinguishing components
of the SFSBroker are as follows.
A. SFSBroker core components
Security Service Blockchain: Security service blockchain
validates the resource requests and resource offers are within
the legitimate range. SSB is based on the original work
[4]. SSB stores individual profiles of tenants and resource
providers which define the valid range of resource providers
and resource offers.
Resource unit price database: Stores the individual re-
sources and the unit prices of each resource provided by
the corresponding MNOs. The resource unit price database
is synchronized with the pricing information updated by the
respective MNOs whenever required.
Prime mover: A smart contract which handles the con-
sumer slice requests, formulate the network slice blueprint
according to the requirement and forwards to the mediator.
Mediator: A smart contract which retrieves the unit prices
of resources from the storage database and compute the best
matching MNOs for the federated slice formulation. The slice
selection operation is performed by a game theory based
selection algorithm encoded in the smart contract.
SSLA Manager: Secured service level agreement manager
establishes the service level agreement between the IoT tenant
and resource providers for the requested slice.
Global slice manager: This interacts with the network slice
managers (i.e., Katana slice manager) deployed in each MNOs
for the federated network slice creation. The North Bound In-
terface(NBI) REST API of Katana slice manager is integrated
with the slice manager smart contract of SFSBroker [5]. The
global slice manager is not restricted to Katana and can be
customized to integrate with slice manager.
B. SFSBroker initialization
The SFSBroker requires timely synchronization with the
resource availability with the resource providers. The resource
provider availability is recorded in a database. SSB validates
the resource offers prior to include in the unit price database.
The database is being accessed by the SFSBroker service
at the computation of optimal resource requests to deliver
consumer resource request. Furthermore, blockchain service
requires instantiation with the encoded smart contract with
SFSBroker logic.
C. SFSBroker workflow
SFSBroker workflow includes the end-to-end processes of
the slice creation process. The key steps are as follows.
1) Resource request initiated from the tenant: The tenant
generates the resource request for the slice creation. The
resource request comprises of the quantities of each units for
the slice. SSB validates resource requests for the valid range.
2) Slice blueprint creation: Prime mover collects the
resource requests coming from the consumer and forwards
Mediator upon creation of the blueprint.
3) Slice selection : Mediator runs the slice selection al-
gorithm by taking the updates of resource availability and
price from the resource unit price database, creating the
Network Slice Template (NST), and sending NST to Global
Slice Manager. Finally, the Global Slice Manager accumulates
the slice with the coordination of slice managers and SSLA
manager, and send the slice to consumers.
4) Slice instantiation: The slice instantiation includes in-
vocation of the individual slice managers of the resource
providers. In general, slice managers provide APIs which can
be invoked for slice instantiation.
III. PROTOTYPE SETUP
The prototype setup facilitates the end-to-end slice selection
process. The demonstration setup implemented all components
on the proposed architecture using different software modules.
Each and every components have been deployed on appropri-
ate infrastructure as per the requirement. Table I reflects the
summary of software components and infrastructure placement
in the demo setup. Entire system is adapted to the micro-
services architecture. Thus, most of the services are deployable
as Docker containers. Figure 2 illustrates the workflow of
significant steps in the proposed architecture.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
NOMS 2022 - 2022 IEEE/IFIP Network Operations and Management Symposium
Raspberry Pi 4 Model A
Fog nodes  
(Tenants infrastructure)
Lenovo Thinkpad
T480S
LAN
Hyperledger Blockchain - SSB
RPs as VMs
RP VM 1
RP VM 2
Infrastructure
1
3
4
Selection smart contract
Shareable RP
Infrastructure
Internet
Accessing slices
5Gouter
Hyperledger Blockchain - SFSBroker
[Prime Mover] [Mediator] [Global slice manager]
Resource unit price database
Resource request verification 2
gggggggggg
Figure 2. Implementation setup
Table I
SUMMARY OF THE IMPLEMENTATION AND DEPLOYMENT
Component Software Infrastructure
IoT tenants Java request gen-
erator
Raspberry Pi
Model 4A
Resource unit price database Mongo DB Cloud server
SFSBroker service Hyperledger Cloud server
SSB service Hyperledger Cloud server
SSLA manager SpringBoot API
simulator
Cloud server
Shareable infrastructure OpenStack Cloud server
Slice manager Katana Cloud server
IV. EXPERIMENTS IN THE DEMONSTRATION
A. End to end slice creation demonstration
This demonstrates the end to end slice creation operation.
The users can trigger the resource request through the web
application. The users can also enable/disable the resource
request verification to realize the impact on SSB. The proposed
setup reflects the individual latencies on significant steps of the
end to end slice creation process.
B. Manage the created slice through Katana
The created slice can be viewed through the Katana com-
mand line interface. Katana command line provisions the man-
agement of network slice. The demonstration setup facilitates
the user to interact with Katana slice manager to interact
hands-on with Katana slice manager.
C. Impact of the SSB on DoS prevention
The proposed experimental setup can be used to demon-
strate the impact of SSB in securing SFSBroker for the
simulated DoS attacks.
D. End to end latency with BlockT ime configuration
The proposed demonstration setup implemented with con-
sortium blockchain, which enables the configuration of block
mining time(BlockT ime). The implementation setup facili-
tates the users to realize the impact of block mining time for
the end to end slice creation latency.
V. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENTS
The proposed architecture includes SSB and SFSBroker,
which are two blockchain-based services. Therefore, two vir-
tual machines required to deploy each blockchain instance.
The summary of technical requirements for the virtual ma-
chines included in Table II.
Table II
VIRTUAL SYSTEM SPECIFICATIONS.
Operating system Ubuntu 18.04
Docker Version 19.03.12
TCP ports Selected ports open
Connectivity Access through public IP
VI. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work has been performed under 6Genesis Flagship
(grant 318927) project. The research leading to these results
partly received funding from European Union’s Horizon 2020
research and innovation program under grant agreement no
871808 (5G PPP project INSPIRE-5Gplus). The paper reflects
only the authors’ views. The Commission is not responsible
for any use that may be made of the information it contains.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Vincenzi, A. Antonopoulos, E. Kartsakli, J. Vardakas, L. Alonso, and
C. Verikoukis, “Multi-tenant Slicing for Spectrum Management on the
Road to 5G,” IEEE Wireless Communications, vol. 24, no. 5, pp. 118–
125, 2017.
[2] N. Zhao, H. Wu, and Y. Chen, “Coalition game-based computation
resource allocation for wireless blockchain networks,” IEEE Internet of
Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8507–8518, 2019.
[3] D. C. Nguyen, P. N. Pathirana, M. Ding, and A. Seneviratne, “Blockchain
for 5G and beyond networks: A state of the art survey,” Journal of
Network and Computer Applications, p. 102693, 2020.
[4] T. Hewa, A. Kalla, P. Porambage, M. Liyanage, and M. Ylianttila, “How
dos attacks can be mounted on network slice broker and can they be
mitigated using blockchain?” in 2021 IEEE 32nd Annual International
Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications
(PIMRC), 2021, pp. 1525–1531.
[5] “Katana Slice Manager,” https://github.com/medianetlab/katana-slice-
manager/wiki, Accessed on 24.02.2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:29:17 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.