An Evolutionary Game Assisted Spectrum Sharing Blockchain Framework for Internet of Vehicles
An Evolutionary Game Assisted Spectrum Sharing
Blockchain Framework for Internet of Vehicles
Dou Hu∗, Haibo Zhou∗, Ting Ma∗, Kai Yu∗, Nan Cheng†
∗School of Electronic Science and Engineering, Nanjing University, Nanjing, China, 210023
Email: douhu@smail.nju.edu.cn, haibozhou@nju.edu.cn, majiawan27@163.com, kaiyu@smail.nju.edu.cn
†School of Telecomm. Engineering, Xidian University, (Email: nancheng@xidian.edu.cn)
Abstract—With the significant advance of Internet of Vehicles
(IoV), a massive number of vehicular users will connect with
the Internet via 5G and the beyond 5G (B5G) networks, which
will further worse the spectrum scarcity problem in 5G/B5G
networks. Therefore, how to enable dynamical and efficient spec-
trum resource sharing for IoV users is imperative. To this end,
we investigate an evolutionary game enabled spectrum sharing
blockchain framework for IoV. Specifically, We use alliance nodes
and blockchain framework to assist in the completion of multi-
WSP spectrum resource allocation, sharing, and the allocation
results storage. We first propose an evolutionary game scheme to
allocate the spectrum resource among different WSPs. To reflect
the vehicle users’ communication demand more appropriately,
the vehicle mobility is taken into consideration when defining
the payoff of the vehicle users. After completing the spectrum
allocation, we illustrate the process of allocation results recording
and block generation in our established blockchain verification
system, where the transactions ledger of spectrum allocation will
be stored in each alliance node in a distributed way. Numerical
results exhibit the fast convergence speed of the spectrum
allocation approach. Moreover, simulations results from our
established hyperledger platform validate the effectiveness and
implementability of the investigated spectrum sharing blockchain
framework.
Index Terms—Evolutionary game, Multi-WSP, Spectrum Allo-
cation, Blockchain.
I. INTRODUCTION
INternet of Vehicle (IoV) has gradually become common
with the advent of the 5G era, the communications and
information services among IoV users will become more
frequent, and the significantly increase number of vehicles on-
board units (OBU) in IoV will produce more communication
needs. How to support the massive number of vehicular users
with high quality-of-service (QoS) guarantees over the limited
wireless spectrum resource is challenging. However, one on
hand, the location of the wireless service providers’ (WSP)
base stations is uneven, and the density in different regions
are also different. For a single WSP with the reduced coverage
of 5G, it is difficult to meet dense vehicular user needs in all
regions. With the scarcity of spectrum resources and the com-
munication problems in a multiple wireless service providers
(WSP) assisted IoV environments will gradually become more
urgent. Dynamically allocation and scheduling the wireless
spectrum resources among WSPs and the massive vehicle
users and improving the efficiency of spectrum utilization
become an important issue in wireless spectrum sharing and
management [1], [2]. However, WSPs lack a neutral institution
or a trusted medium that can enable them to cooperate with
each other, and the lack of trust between WSPs makes it
difficult to implement the allocation of spectrum resources
across WSPs [11], [17]-[18].
With the technical development and progress, more and
more researches realize that evolutionary game theory is an ef-
fective tool to solve resource matching or allocation problems,
which is based on the Natural selection theory in biology [1].
Evolutionary game theory is different from traditional game
theory. Evolutionary game theory does not require participants
to be fully rational, nor does it require complete information, it
only lets the participants choose the best strategy at the current
time. Armed with evolutionary game theory, the system will
become stable and reach convergence step by step in a dis-
tributed way. In addition, as for blockchain, it has also attracted
huge attentions of many scholars and developers. According to
the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) [5],
blockchains are immutable digital ledger systems implemented
in a distributed fashion (i.e., without a central repository) and
usually without a central authority [4], [6]. Blockchain has
been widely used in the field of Internet of Things because
of its security, trustworthiness, and decentralization [8]-[10],
[16].
In this paper, we investigate the Evolutionary Game as-
sisted spectrum sharing blockchain framework for Internet
of Vehicles to realize the dynamical and efficient spectrum
resource sharing among multiple wireless service providers.
For a specific, in this area, each WSP will have different base
station locations and numbers, and vehicle users subscribe to
different WSPs and access different base stations. We propose
a spectrum resource allocation scheme based on evolutionary
game, which can integrate the spectrum resources of multiple
WSPs and use the evolutionary game scheme to dynamically
allocate and share them. To describe the demands of vehicle
users more accurately, we take the mobility of the vehicles into
consideration. Through this scheme, the spectrum resources
can be used more reasonably. In addition, when the spectrum
allocation process is completed, we illustrate the process
of allocation results recording and block generation in our
blockchain system. We use alliance nodes and blockchain
framework to assist in the completion of multi-WSP spectrum
resource allocation, sharing, and store the allocation results,
and make the results of spectrum transactions accessible,
traceable, but not temperable in a distributed way. We highlight
the novelty and contributions compared with the previous
978-1-7281-9484-4/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE
20
20
 IE
EE
 9
2n
d 
V
eh
ic
ul
ar
 T
ec
hn
ol
og
y 
C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
(V
TC
20
20
-F
al
l) 
| 9
78
-1
-7
28
1-
94
84
-4
/2
0/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
20
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
V
TC
20
20
-F
al
l4
97
28
.2
02
0.
93
48
44
8
literature works in three-fold:
• We present a dynamical spectrum sharing blockchain
framework, which can overcome the problem of suffi-
cient trust lack for executing cooperation, information
exchange, and spectrum sharing among multiple wireless
service providers.
• We propose an evolutionary game scheme to allocate the
spectrum resource among different WSPs, considering
the vehicle users communication demands and vehicles’
mobility, which will make the model more practical.
• Except for executing numerical simulations on our pro-
posed evolutionary game scheme, we built a blockchain
structure to verify the real situation of spectrum data
storage and the process of allocation results recording
under the hyperledger fabric environment.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II describes the system model. Section III presents the evolu-
tionary game enabled multi-WSP spectrum allocation scheme.
The simulation results are presented in Section IV. And section
V is the conclusion of this paper.
II. SYSTEM MODEL
A. Network Framework
As shown in Fig. 1, our system scenario is an area where
multiple WSPs coexist. Vehicle users in this area choose
an operator to subscribe and access the base station of the
operator that is closest to their current location. There are 4
roles exist in our model:
Vehicle user: Vehicle users are the roles that require
spectrum resources in our scenario. They choose a WSP to
subscribe and choose the base station closest to their location
among the base stations of the WSPs. For vehicle users, we
use collections to represent collections of vehicle users, i.e.
U = {u1, u2, . . . , uM}.
Wireless service provider (WSP): There are N competing
WSPs in our scenario. They have different locations and
different numbers of base stations in this region. In addition,
the frequency band held by each WSP is fixed. We use
N = {n1, n2, . . . , nN} to represent the WSP set.
Base station: Each base station belongs to a WSP. The
base station is a direct server that provides spectrum resources
for vehicle users. Each base station has a fixed bandwidth.
When more users access the base station, each user gets
less spectrum resources. The user can choose different base
stations to access, but can only access the base stations owned
by the currently subscribed WSP. The interference of user
communication mainly comes from other base stations in the
region from the same WSP. We use bjn to represent the j-th
base station of the n-th WSP.
Alliance node: The alliance node is the overall manager
of each region and is responsible for the information inter-
action between vehicle users, base stations and WSPs in this
region. The spectrum blockchain in our system is composed
of alliance nodes. Each region is managed by an alliance
node. Each alliance node is outsourced by different companies,
which greatly reduces the possibility of collusion. There is
no center between the alliance nodes, and each alliance node
Fig. 1. Multi-WSP spectrum allocation system under a blockchain system.
stores the spectrum resource usage in all regions. Once there is
a need, you can query the spectrum transactions at the required
time point, and the distributed ledger at each alliance node can
prove the correctness of the results, safe and reliable. Alliance
nodes can be denote as a set G = {G1, G2, . . . , Gk}.
B. Process of The System
In the area shown in Fig 1, the alliance node integrates the
location information and spectrum resources of each operator’s
base station, combines the current location information of
vehicle users, and uses an evolutionary game to allocate spec-
trum resources. Then, the alliance node sends the spectrum
allocation result to the miners selected by the vehicle users to
package the data and generate blocks. The blocks verified by
the miners will be stored distributed at each alliance node.
We can explain the process described by the model as the
following steps:
Step 1. System initialization: The alliance nodes collect
information of all vehicle users who have spectrum require-
ments and base stations of multiple WSPs. Each vehicle user
and WSPs are provided with a pair of public and private keys,
which will be used when they have spectrum transactions.
Step 2. Spectrum allocation: The vehicle user chooses to
initially subscribe to the WSP, the alliance node integrates the
spectrum resources of multiple WSPs, and uses evolutionary
game methods to complete multi-WSP spectrum allocation.
Under the condition of fast convergence, the rationality and
fairness of spectrum resource allocation are guaranteed.
Step 3. Block generation and profit allocation: The data
of the spectrum transaction is packaged into blocks, and the
transaction results are stored as the form of the distributed
ledger of each alliance node distributedly. The smart contract
(SC) automatically allocates profits corresponding to spectrum
resources to various WSPs based on transaction data in the
distributed ledger.
III. EVOLUTIONARY GAME ENABLED MULTI-WSP
SPECTRUM ALLOCATION SCHEME
A. Evolutionary Game Model
The evolutionary game model we built can be divided into
the following parts:
Population: The users of each collection choose a WSP
to subscribe, and the collection of these users is called a
population. Because there are N WSPs, there are N different
populations.
Strategy space: For the users in each population, they
decide which WSP to access next to get better service.
Therefore, their Strategy space can also be expressed as
S = {s1, s2, . . . , sN}
Population state: For an evolutionary game, the share of
users currently choosing different strategies is expressed as
x = {xs1 , xs2 . . . , xsn}. Obviously, we have
∑
X
xsn = 1.
Payoff function: The payoff function πsn for each strategy
is used to quantify the satisfaction or benefits that users can
obtain by using strategy space in the current population state.
Mathematically, the payoff function of an individual user can
be illustrated as a mapping: πsn : x → payoff
In our scenario, we use λWn
to denote the base station
density of the n-th WSP in this area, and λu to denote the
density of vehicle users. After the vehicle users select the WSP
they subscribe, they choose to access the base station from this
WSP which is closest to his location at the current time. Then
the expected signal to noise ratio (SINR) γ̄ of the vehicle users
at current time t can be expressed as
γ̄ = E

PWn
hj
(
Dt
W
b
j
n
i
)−α
∑
k ̸=j
PWn
hk
(
Dt
W
bkn
i
)−α
+ σ2
 , (1)
In equation (1), PWn
denotes the transmit power of the base
station of WSPn, α is the path-loss expont. σ2 denotes the
Additive White Gaussian Noise (AWGN) power density, hi is
the effect of Rayleigh fading, and Dt
W
b
j
n
i
denotes the distance
between the vehicle user i and the accessed base station of
WSPn (i.e. bjn) at time t. The source of the noise is divided
into two parts. The first part is the interference caused by other
base stations of the same WSP to the vehicle users, and the
second part is white Gaussian noise. By defining the signal-to-
noise ratio, we can get the expected user rate R̄(t) of vehicle
users through the Shannon formula at time t:
R̄(t) = E {Bi(t)log2[1 + γi(t)]} . (2)
B. Payoff Function for Vehicle Users Considering Mobility
Different from static cellular users, vehicles have high-
speed mobility when communicating. The traditional user rate
cannot fully express the communication needs of the vehicle
during driving. Combining the expected driving path of the
Fig. 2. Illustration of vehicle expected driving path.
vehicle, we propose a vehicle user payoff function based on
the expected driving path.
As shown in Fig (2), when the spectrum allocation evolu-
tionary game starts, the vehicle user i has the Expected driving
path Li at the speed vi. In order to more accurately reflect
the communication needs of vehicle users, we also consider
the expected driving path of the vehicle while considering the
current location of the vehicle.
We assume that the vehicle users are at the starting point of
the expecting driving path, and time t = 0 at the starting point.
The vehicle users will move along their expected driving path,
and they will reach our first record point at the time t = τ , and
they will reach our second record point at the time t = 2τ , etc.
We select the first A record points for consideration. In other
words, when the vehicle users are at the starting point, each of
them estimates his locations at future moments in preparation
for the calculation of his payoff. We denote the number of
record points A as the length of record points. And combined
with (1) and (2), the expected payoff function in each strategy
can be expressed as follows:
πsn = E
{
1
A+ 1
A∑
t=0
Bsn(t)log2[1 + γsn(t)]
}
, (3)
where
γsn(t) =
PWn
hj
(
Dt
W
b
j
n
sn
)−α
∑
k ̸=j
PWn
hk
(
Dt
W
bkn
sn
)−α
+ σ2
.
Then we define the average user rate when each vehicle
user i crosses through these A record points as the payoff
function πi. For each vehicle user i , the payoff function can
be expressed as:
πi =
1
A+ 1
A∑
t=0
Bi(t)log2[1 +
PWnhj
(
Dt
W
b
j
n
i
)−α
∑
k ̸=j
PWn
hk
(
Dt
W
bkn
i
)−α
+ σ2
].
(4)
The above equations (3) and (4) show that we define the
payoff function, i.e. the user rate of vehicle users by combining
the current locations and future expected locations of vehicle
users (A+1 points in total), which reflects the communication
demand of vehicle users more appropriately. Since it takes
both the current locations and vehicle expected driving path
into consideration.
C. Replicator Dynamics and ESS Formulation
To depict the dynamical behavior of users, we adopt the
replicator dynamics in this section which can be expressed as
follows:
ẋsn = δxsn(πsn − π̄(x))
= δxsn(xsn −
∑
sn′∈S
xsn′πsn′(x)),∀n ∈ N. (5)
In the formula, δ > 0 is the rate of strategy and π̄(x) is
the average payoff of all populations. Based on the above
replicator dynamics, the percentage growth rate of the pop-
ulation share of each strategy is proportional to the excess
of the strategy’s payoff over the population’s average payoff
[4]. It could be interpreted biologically as a model of natural
selection, and economically as a model of imitation [3].
By replicator dynamics, we can get N first-order equations.
Armed with these equations, all the vehicle users can find the
fixed point, which is also the point of evolutionary equilibrium
(EE). When the state of EE is established, there won’t be
any user would like to change his strategy. Next, we give the
definition of ESS.
Definition 1: (ESS): We set x∗ as an evolutionary stable
strategy (ESS), if for any different population state x ̸= x∗,
we have
π̄(x̄, (1− ε)x̄+ εx) > π̄(x, (1− ε)x̄+ εx), (6)
where π̄(x̄, (1− ε)x̄+ εx) and π̄(x, (1− ε)x̄+ εx) respec-
tively denote the expected payoff in state(1−ε)x̄+εx under the
population state (1− ε)x̄+ εx with ε being a small constant.
From the definition of ESS, we also have the Theorem 1,
which shows our strategy is an ESS.
Theorem 1: The equilibrium point x∗ obtained from Algo-
rithm 1 is also an ESS.
Proof : Based on the theorem of an evolutionary game,
any strict nash equilibrium (NE) will correspond to an ES-
S [3]. Meanwhile, we can obviously see that the solution
from Algorithm 1 is an equilibrium point since there is no
vehicle users would change his own strategy for there will
be no other strategies that can provide more profit than
the current one. i.e. ẋsn=0 for any s ∈ S. Then we prove
that equilibrium point x∗ is a strict NE. We assume the
payoff obtained by a vehicle user selecting strategy s is
πs = E
{
1
A+1
A∑
t=0
Bs(t)log2[1 + γs(t)]
}
. Now, suppose some
vehicle users deviate from the strategy, then the population
state becomes:
x′ = (x∗
1, · · · , x∗
s − ξ, · · · , x∗
l + ξ, · · · , x∗
|S|), (7)
where ξ is determined by the number of users. And ξ > 0.
Then the payoff of vehicle users becomes:
πl = E
{
1
A+ 1
A∑
t=0
Bl(t)log2[1 + γl(t)]
}
. (8)
In equation (7), γl(t) is the SNR influenced by the location
of base station and the user, which will be not changed
by the strategy selection. It is also the constant of record
length. Because more users deviate to strategy l, so we
have Bl(t)|x=x∗
l +ξ < Bl(t)|x=x∗
l
, and E [·] just stands for the
average value of each vehicle user. Then we can obtain that
πl(x
∗) > πl(x
′), which shows that the deviating from the
equilibrium state will lower the payoff of the vehicles. Now,
the proof is completed.
In what follows, we show the algorithm of Multi-WSP
spectrum allocation method.
Algorithm 1 Multi-WSP Spectrum Allocation Method
1: Initialization Each vehicle user first subscribes to a WSP
randomly, and accesses the WSP’s base station which is
closest to him. And t = 0.
2: loop
3: Each user calculates the payoff πi in the current access
state by using (4), then he uploads the result to the alliance
node G.
4: Alliance node G receives the user rate from all the vehicle
users, and calculate the average payoff π̄(x), broadcast the
results to all vehicle users.
5: if For vehicle user i , πi < π̄(x) then
6: Vehicle user i change his strategy, subscribes to WSP m,
where m = argmax(πsm) for each user i.
7: End if
8: Vehicle upload the new strategies to G, G update the data.
9: t = t+ 1
10: End loop
In Algorithm 1, the alliance node acts as the information
interactor in this region, and overall allocates the spectrum
resources of multiple WSPs in this area. Because of the
characteristics of the evolutionary game method, our spectrum
allocation scheme can have a fast convergence speed. Besides,
in our scheme, the alliance node only needs to calculate the
average user rate of all the vehicle users in this area. The user
rate will be calculated distributedly by each vehicle user. So
our scheme can avoid numerous complicated calculations in
the alliance node, which is equivalent to sharing the computing
burden to each vehicle user.
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS
In the blockchain based multi-WSP evolutionary game
method, we illustrate the dynamic behaviors of the vehicle
TABLE I
PARAMETERS AND VALUES
Parameter Value
Number of services N 3
Available bandwidth for each WSP 10 MHz
AWGN power density -174 dBm/Hz
Path-loss exponent 4
Transmission power of base station PWn 46 dBm
Length of record points A 3
Fig. 3. The dynamics of the population share in the vehicle users of WSP1,
WPS2 and WSP3 with (λW1
, λW2
, λW3
) = (3, 3, 6) and λu = 60.
users. We consider the region where there are 3 WSPs and
many vehicle users. The region is a 200 m × 200 m square
area, and the base stations of different WSPs are randomly
distributed in this area at a density of λW1
, λW2
and λW3
.
The vehicle users are distributed randomly in a randomly
distributed over a crossroads area with the density λu. Some
main parameters and values are shown in Table.1. Each of
the vehicle users has an expected driving path. During the
initialization of the simulation, users in each population would
randomly subscribe to a WSP, select the closest base station of
the WSP. Then the evolutionary game will start, each vehicle
user will adopt the strategy that he can benefit most.
The dynamics of population state and the mean user rate
are shown in Fig. 3, Fig. 4 and Fig. 5. In Fig. 3 and
Fig. 4, we set (λW1
, λW2
, λW3
) = (3, 3, 6) and λu = 60,
while (λW1 , λW2 , λW3) = (4, 3, 6) and λu = 300 in Fig. 5.
From these three figures, we can see that the evolutionary
equilibrium of the evolutionary game can be achieved less
than 8 iterations. Meanwhile, the mean user rate is also can be
achieved quickly. Fast convergence speed ensures that vehicle
users can still obtain spectrum allocation results while driving.
Then we compare the mean user rate between our
blockchain-based multi-WSP spectrum allocation scheme and
fixed WSP allocation scheme. In our blockchain-based multi-
WSP spectrum allocation scheme, each vehicle user can select
the best base station among all WSPs (i.e. WSP1, WSP2
Fig. 4. The mean user rate of all vehicle users with (λW1
, λW2
, λW3
) =
(3, 3, 6) and λu = 60.
Fig. 5. The dynamics of the population share in the vehicle users of WSP1,
WPS2 and WSP3 with (λW1 , λW2 , λW3 ) = (4, 3, 6) and λu = 300.
and WSP3) because of the assistance of blockchain. These
WSPs can cooperate in a reliable way. And the vehicle users
can use the spectrum resource more effectively. In a fixed
WSP allocation scheme, vehicle users only can select the
base station from the WSP they originally subscribe to, which
is also consistent with traditional spectrum usage scenarios.
Without the assistance of blockchain, it is difficult for WSPs
to trust their rivals. Fig. 6 shows the mean rate of our proposed
scheme and the fixed WSP allocation scheme under different
amounts of vehicle users. We can see that our blockchain-
based multi-WSP spectrum allocation scheme has a better
mean rate than the fixed WSP allocation scheme. It is because,
under the blockchain-based system, vehicle users can choose a
Fig. 6. The mean rate of our proposed scheme and the fixed WSP allocation
scheme under different amounts of vehicle users.
TABLE II
PERFORMANCE IN OUR BLOCKCHIAN NETWORK
Command Success rate(%) Average latency(s) Throughput(TPS)
data query 100% 0.11s 100.6
data storage 94% 3.52s 10.6
better strategy and select the best base stations from all WSPs,
which help them make use of the spectrum more efficiently.
In addition, in order to investigate the implementability of
the blockchain framework in our network model by using
the hyperledger FABRIC and the hyperledger CALIPER tool,
we simply analyze the performance of a 2-alliance node
framework by the CALIPER. We show the data we obtain
in table II. We perform simulation and testing in a personal
computer (lenovo legion y7000,intel i7 8-th gen) environment
by using CALIPER. In the fabric network, we simulate a 2-
alliance node environment blockchain network and test the
success rate and throughput of data storage and data query,
and the result is listed in Table II. From Table II, we show
that the network has a high success rate of these commands
and in the future we will simulate a more complex network
to confirm the effectiveness.
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have proposed an evolutionary game-
enabled multi-WSP evolutionary game spectrum allocation
scheme. Moreover, when defining the payoff function of the
vehicle users, we also take the vehicle mobility into consid-
eration to reflect the vehicle users’ communication demand
more appropriately. In our system, each vehicle user will
choose the strategy that allows him to get the maximum user
rate. Armed with evolutionary game theory and blockchain
framework, WSPs in our scenario can cooperate with each
other and allocate their spectrum in a more reasonable way.
The simulation results have shown that our proposed approach
can outperform the fixed WSP allocation scheme. For future
work, we will consider the details in the blockchain data
verification and block generation.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work is supported in part by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (No. 61871211), in part by the
Natural Science Foundation of Jiangsu Province Youth Project
(BK20180329), in part by the Innovation and Entrepreneurship
of jiangsu Province High-level Talent Program, and in part
by the Summit of the Six Top Talents Program of Jiangsu
Province.
REFERENCES
[1] C. Xu, M. Sheng, V. S. Varma, T. Q. S. Quek, and J. Li, “Wireless
service provider selection and bandwidth resource allocation in multi-
tier hcns,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 18, 2016.
[2] H. Zhou, N. Cheng, N. Lu, L. Gui, D. Zhang, Q. Yu, F. Bai, and X. S.
Shen, “Whitefi infostation: Engineering vehicular media streaming with
geolocation database,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communica-
tions, vol. 34, no. 8, 2016.
[3] R. Cressman, Evolutionary Dynamics and Extensive Form Games.
Cambridge, MA, USA: MIT Press, 2003.
[4] M. Liu, F. R. Yu, Y. Teng, V. C. M. Leung, and M. Song, “Distributed
resource allocation in blockchain-based video streaming systems with
mobile edge computing,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communica-
tions, vol. 18, no. 1, 2019.
[5] D. Yaga, P. Mell, N. Roby, and K. Scarfone, “Blockchain technology
overview,” Draft NISTIR 82022, 2018.
[6] M. Liu, F. R. Yu, Y. Teng, V. C. M. Leung, and M. Song, “Distributed
resource allocation in blockchain-based video streaming systems with
mobile edge computing,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communica-
tions, vol. 18, no. 1, 2019.
[7] N. Cheng, N. Zhang, N. Lu, X. Shen, J. W. Mark, and F. Liu, “Op-
portunistic spectrum access for cr-vanets: A game-theoretic approach,”
IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 63, 2014.
[8] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang, and E. Hossain,
“Enabling localized peer-to-peer electricity trading among plug-in hybrid
electric vehicles using consortium blockchains,” IEEE Transactions on
Industrial Informatics, vol. 13, no. 6, 2017.
[9] R. Cressman, The Blockchain and the New Architecture of Trust. MIT
Press., 2018.
[10] Y. Jiao, P. Wang, D. Niyato, and Z. Xiong, “Social welfare maximization
auction in edge computing resource allocation for mobile blockchain,”
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), 2018.
[11] H. Zhou, W. Xu, J. Chen, and W. Wang, “Evolutionary v2x technologies
toward the internet of vehicles: Challenges and opportunities,” Proceed-
ings of the IEEE, 2020.
[12] Y. Choi and I.-G. Lee, “Game theoretical approach of blockchain-based
spectrum sharing for 5g-enabled iots in dense networks,” 2019 IEEE
90th Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2019-Fall), 2019.
[13] Z. Zhou, X. Chen, Y. Zhang, and S. Mumtaz, “Blockchain-empowered
secure spectrum sharing for 5g heterogeneous networks,” IEEE Network,
vol. 34, no. 1, 2020.
[14] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao, and Q. Wu, “Blockchain-based secure
spectrum trading for unmanned-aerial-vehicle-assisted cellular networks:
An operator’s perspective,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7,
no. 1, 2020.
[15] K. Kotobi and S. G. Bilen, “Secure blockchains for dynamic spectrum
access: A decentralized database in moving cognitive radio networks en-
hances security and user access,” IEEE Vehicular Technology Magazine,
vol. 13, no. 1, 2018.
[16] Y. Yao, X. Chang, J. Mii, V. B. Mii, and L. Li, “Bla: Blockchain-
assisted lightweight anonymous authentication for distributed vehicular
fog services,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 2, 2019.
[17] S. Li, S. Lin, L. Cai, W. Li, and G. Zhu, “Joint resource allocation and
computation offloading with time-varying fading channel in vehicular
edge computing,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 69,
no. 3, 2020.
[18] R. Shen, D. Zhang, Y. Zhang, T. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “A block
prefetching framework for energy harvesting iot devices,” IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, 2020.