Blockchain Technology and Decentralized Applications Using Blockchain
Blockchain Technology 
and Decentralized Applications Using 
Blockchain 
Mohd. Osama Iqbal, Ahmed J. Obaid , Parul Agarwal , Tabish Mufti , 
and Ahmed R. Hassan 
Abstract A blockchain is a collection of blocks, each of which contains a set of 
transactions that are verified using an encryption algorithm. The blocks are constantly 
adding to each other, forming a chain of blocks. Blockchain technology is widely used 
for security and smart contracts, financial and non-financial spheres, a large variety of 
blockchain systems are used. Decentralized applications (DApps) are in their early 
stages of development, and several critical issues which services, the Internet of 
Things (IoT), healthcare services, and supply chain to name a few. This paper throws 
light on several aspects of blockchain technology, the linkage between blockchain and 
DApps. It also illustrates working of blockchain transaction process and Ethereum 
transaction. It also elaborates on the working of smart contracts. Furthermore, this 
paper also discusses the making of decentralized application in detail and enlighten 
the architecture of DApps. Moving ahead this paper also discusses the implemen-
tation of DApps in various sectors in industry like health care, banking and stock 
market. It also puts light on the challenges of implementing decentralized application 
in the present centralized market and its scalability as well. We have also discussed the 
future of decentralized application and its growing market demand due to its various 
unique features. The actual user interaction in the projects is exceedingly small: in 
fact, even the five major applications in any sector, be it games or exchanges, have 
roughly over 1 k users. However, the marketplace for DApps is expected to increase 
substantially in the near future. 
Keywords Blockchain · Decentralized applications · Blockchain applications ·
Ethereum · Smart contract
Mohd. O. Iqbal · P. Agarwal (B) · T. Mufti 
Department of CSE, Jamia Hamdard, Hamdard Nagar, New Delhi-62, India 
e-mail: pagarwal@jamiahamdard.ac.in 
A. J. Obaid 
Faculty of Computer Science and Mathematics, University of Kufa, Kufa, Iraq 
A. R. Hassan 
National University of Science and Technology, Nasiriyah, Iraq 
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023 
M. Tuba et al. (eds.), ICT Infrastructure and Computing, Lecture Notes in Networks 
and Systems 520, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-5331-6_57 
555
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-19-5331-6_57\&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0376-5546
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7297-335X
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-7438-2393
mailto:pagarwal@jamiahamdard.ac.in
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-5331-6_57
556 Mohd. Osama Iqbal et al.
1 Introduction 
Blockchain enables peer-to-peer digital asset transfer without the use of interme-
diaries [1]. Blockchain was designed to aid in the development of a very well-
acknowledged Cryptocoin Bitcoin. Bitcoin as a Cryptocoin was first conceived 
in 2008, and it was first used in 2009, thanks to the work of Satoshi Nakamoto 
[2]. The chain continues to develop as additional chunk blocks are added to it. 
Blockchain operates in a decentralized environment, which is made possible by 
the use of a number of core technologies, including virtual signatures, cryptographic 
hashes and allocated consensus methods. Decentralization, privacy, immutability and 
auditability are just a few of the major qualities of blockchain [3]. 
DApp allows developers to create applications that are completely open to users 
and run independently of any external body. To abstain from a single point of system 
failure, the contents and code of that program are stored securely and controlled by 
a decentralized blockchain. This represents a DApp’s overall architecture. 
The data is kept on the Ethereum blockchain system under this design. Smart 
contracts are used to construct the application logic, which is then published and 
controlled on the blockchain. EVM is in charge of executing any smart contract code 
in this case [4]. 
In this architecture, the smart contract functions as the backend. The code for 
this backend is saved on, handled and operated by the blockchain, which makes 
it completely decentralized. The user must contact a blockchain network node in 
the ability to engage with the smart contract. If a node goes down, other nodes are 
notified and substituted for that node. In addition, the Ethereum-based DApp profits 
from ETH, a cryptocurrency. This coin can be used to create financial applications 
or to quickly include monetary activities into DApps [5]. 
The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 throws the light on the back-
ground process of the blockchain technology live various transaction processes and 
smart contracts. Section 3 discusses the decentralized application in detail and its 
various uses in different industries. Section 4 puts light on the making of decen-
tralized application and building its core architecture. Section 5 illustrates the chal-
lenges of decentralized application in current market which in centralized in nature. 
Section 6 discusses the future of decentralized application and its growing demand 
due to various unique feature. Section 7 provides the limitations of the decentral-
ized applications. Section 8 provides the conclusion while discussing some aspect 
of decentralized application and its use in present market and in different industries. 
2 Background Review 
A node in a decentralized blockchain network initiates a transaction by creating a 
digital signature using private key cryptography. A transaction on the blockchain 
network is a data structure that reflects a digital asset exchange between peers. When
Blockchain Technology and Decentralized … 557
the miners have verified and validated the transaction, it is put in a block. Miners are 
people who pool their computing power to search for blocks [6]. 
2.1 Blockchain Transaction Process 
A blockchain transaction is a small portion of a larger operation that is recorded 
in a public ledger. These data are also known as blocks [7]. These chunks are then 
created, implemented and recorded here on blockchain for every miner to see and 
verify. The status of any past transaction can be examined at whatever time, but it 
cannot be changed [8]. Blockchain processing and voting solutions that primarily 
use a hashing algorithm can be used to address security concerns. The SHA-256 
algorithm, for example, is indeed a 256-bit cryptographic hashing algorithm used by 
Bitcoin. Words, digits, letters, or maybe a system-generated document of any type 
can be created from any type of data. Bitcoin may generate 256 bits or 64 bytes 
output. 
2.2 Ethereum Transaction 
Ethereum brought the theory of an institution as a protocol component that acts 
as both the sender and receiver of a transaction. As a result, transactions directly 
change account balances rather than retaining state. In Bitcoin, UTXOs allow for 
the movement of responsibilities, information and data between accounts, which can 
give outcome as state transitions [9]. Ethereum has similar properties to Bitcoin, such 
as the preceding block hash, nonce and transaction data. All produced transactions 
will be checked by looking at the time stamp, nonce combination, and whether there 
are adequate fees for execution. 
2.3 Smart Contracts 
Smart contracts comprise software programs that run on the Ethereum platform. They, 
like vending machines, can enforce some sorts of contracts between participants, even 
though they have no fundamentally direct relationship with legal contracts. 
An Ethereum smart contract had already grown in popularity to the point where it 
has supplanted the term’s original definition, resulting in a number of misinformation 
about what blockchain can do. What is the significance of the term “contract”? It 
was created with the goal of serving as a kind of settlement across parties [10].
558 Mohd. Osama Iqbal et al.
3 Decentralized Applications (DApps) 
Decentralized applications are frequently referred to as a trustless network with the 
distinction that they are not controlled by a single server or organization, as in a 
client–server model. We recognize the smart contract’s appealing features and the 
platform’s adaptability. 
However, it is necessary to evaluate what goes into a modern centralized 
application in order to grasp it. 
3.1 What Distinguishes a DApp from a Centralized 
Application? 
A commonly modernized software application that must include at least one user 
interface (UI), such as a mobile application downloaded from an android market, 
a blog (opened from just a smart device), or a desktop application installed on a 
computer network. In most cases, data is involved. This information could come from 
a single source, such as a weather application that incorporates data from a national 
weather organization. Finally, it necessitates database operations or computation 
[11]. 
The blockchain is at the heart of a DApp’s processing and storing of data. A smart 
contract is used to do this. A typical website model is currently used to construct the 
UI for a DApp. As a result, a fully functional DApp can be compared to a website 
that contains one or more smart contracts. The fundamental difference seems to be 
that the blockchain is responsible for both data and processing [11]. 
3.2 Decentralized Application and Blockchain 
The following examples given are some of the benefits of utilizing blockchains 
decentralization for DApps: 
Before calling a function or providing any data, the client will see what would 
happen. 
1. An interaction cannot be retracted, tampered with, or erased once it has been 
done by the user. These characteristics are useful in and of themselves. At the 
protocol level, this embodies decentralization. This, on the other hand, promotes 
another sort of decentralization, which is a major motivation for DApps: 
2. Administration can be decentralized, allowing application users to directly 
engage in its management. Another of the more well-known decentralized appli-
cations is CryptoKitties. It’s an Axiom Zen game in which users can trade, 
nurture, acquire and sell digital cats. In CryptoKitties, these digital items are
Blockchain Technology and Decentralized … 559
stored on the blockchain [12]. The decentralized autonomous organization (DAO) 
is another example of a DApp. 
3.3 The Case for DApps 
In the DApp sector, a variety of applications are being pursued. So far, they’ve 
generally fallen into the following categories: 
. Initial Coin Offerings (ICOs) 
. Exchanges and marketplaces 
. Know your customer (KYC) & Anti-money laundering (AML) 
. Banking and accounting services 
. Games are just a few examples. 
We’ll look at a few of these applications presently. In a preliminary decentralized 
application environment, the major obstacle is entry to just provide finance or secu-
rities operations like a bank or stock exchange is high. The regulatory compliance, 
staffing, infrastructure and institutional linkages that are required to run a business 
are enormous. Anyone with the ability to write programs can use a smart contract-
based framework to create a system that safely maintains large amounts of assets, 
with deposits regulated by publicly available computer code. In 2016, an enterprising 
software developer called EtherDelta established a successful Bitcoin exchange [13]. 
At its peak, the exchange smart contract contained more than a billion dollars in ETH 
and tokens. A few applications of DApps are mentioned below: 
Health care—The use of decentralized blockchain technology has the potential 
to revolutionize health care. One of the main priorities in the healthcare business is 
maintaining patient data security. 
Energy Industry—Microgrids are by far the most often used blockchain applica-
tions in the energy sector. Blockchain can also be used in microgrids to ease, register 
and confirm transactions between power buyers and suppliers. 
Stock Market—Connectivity, reliability and integrity are all difficulties that decen-
tralized market systems face. Blockchain technology may be successful in over-
coming these issues. It can improve the stock exchange’s efficiency by decentralizing 
and automating it. 
Voting—Blockchain may be used in a variety of fields to solve problems that a 
traditional database could have. Voting is one example of such an issue. It recently 
came in the knowledge that a major voting machine vendor in the USA had placed 
different remote support software with some of its machines. 
Insurance—Insurance businesses can utilize the blockchain to negotiate, buy, and 
register policies, file and handle claims, and assist reinsurance activities. 
Identity Management—Self-identity can be validated in the real-world using iden-
tification credentials like a driver’s license, ID card or country passport. Djuri Baars 
et al. propose a new self-sovereign decentralized identity management architecture 
based on blockchain technology (Table 1).
560 Mohd. Osama Iqbal et al.
Table 1 Applications of 
decentralized applications in 
various sectors 
Description References 
Health care [14] 
Energy market [15] 
Stock market [16] 
Voting [17] 
Insurance [18] 
Identity management [19] 
4 Making of Decentralized Application (DApps) 
Most of those technologies being used to construct and use DApps are still in their 
infancy. To engage with just a DApp like a user, you’ll need a way to create and 
maintain a network identity. In a typical application, access credentials (username 
and password) are stored on a server. In a DApp, your account is a cryptographic hash 
key recorded on your local hard drive or in your smartphone’s memory. There are 
gadgets that can help you keep track of your keys. The most useful methodology for 
controlling DApp (Ethereum) profiles and communicating with DApps is MetaMask, 
a browser plugin for Chrome, Firefox and Opera. 
Furthermore, the revolutionary DApp framework, which includes icons, words 
and actions, may be confusing to new users. Other popular web-based wallets, such as 
MyEtherWallet, allow you to conduct transactions without downloading any software 
[4]. 
However, instead of just interacting with DApps, it is primarily meant for dealing 
with Ethereum as a coin. To contact a DApp, you must repost obscure programming 
language into the web form. Solidity is a suite of tools for software developers that 
includes implementation tools (IDEs) like Remix, checking mechanisms like Truffle 
and Ethereum’s fundamental programming language. 
5 Challenges in Decentralized Application (DApps) 
5.1 Obligation of Laws 
Regulatory frameworks are essential considerations when creating various applica-
tions that wish to transfer to the blockchain. Let’s take a look at several of the realtor 
tokenization cases. If Alice provides Bob a token that represents a share in a piece 
of Tokyo real estate, these transactions can take place in a way that is guaranteed 
and verified by the technology. Bob may see if he pays the price, and if he does, the 
token will be handed to his possession. Nothing can make Alice refuse to hand over 
the tokens or Bob refuse to pay. In this case, the blockchain takes the position of
Blockchain Technology and Decentralized … 561
a reliable party’s escrow service. It’s doesn’t, however, negate the reality that rules 
tying a portion of the property to a digital token are required [20]. 
5.2 Scalability 
Ethereum, Bitcoin, emerged spontaneously as a test. The demands for technology 
increase as even more people connect to the network. The system’s scalability 
refers to its ability to fulfil those rising demands. Understanding the pricing model 
surrounding transaction and block formation is helpful in framing the concerns of 
scalability. The current goal block formation time is 12 s between blocks, which is a 
balance among security, efficiency and actual network limits. The main problem of 
mining difficulty is automatically changed by the Ethereum network and software as 
mining power is added or detachment from the network to maintain this pace. 
The following are some of the most important aspects of scalability: 
. Transaction processing speed 
. Cost of computation 
. Data archiving. 
6 The Future of Decentralized Application (DApps) 
We’ve focused on Ethereum, but there are variety of other competing technologies 
under development, among which Ethereum is there. But not all of those innovations 
will catch on. We anticipate some of these conflicting and redundant systems to merge 
in the months and years ahead of blockchain innovation. Polkadot, for example, is a 
platform that combines and connects many blockchains and subnetworks. The use 
of blockchain with IoT in transforming the education sector can also be done [21]. 
Under a shared security mechanism, Bitcoin and Ether could trade with one another. 
7 Limitations 
Apart from several advantages, there are certain limitations too. Due to those major 
limitations, the adoption of culture of decentralization of applications is slow. Some 
major limitations are given. 
Maintenance issue—Maintenance is quite tough in decentralized application as 
the code when published is hard to modify for updates and error. 
Performance overhead issue- Performance overhead is quite a bit and scaling 
decentralized application is quite tough. The output that Ethereum is looking is quite 
tough to get.
562 Mohd. Osama Iqbal et al.
Network congestion issue- Currently, there is slow transaction rate which is about 
10–15 s per transaction due to lack of users. 
8 Conclusion 
Applications have grown into DApps as a result of blockchain technology. DApps 
are superior to standard applications in that they have the ability for becoming self-
sustaining resources by enabling stakeholders to contribute in DApp development. 
DApps will be favoured over presently offered traditional applications for a variety of 
purposes in the near future, including payments, storage, cloud computing and so on. 
The adoption of blockchain is unavoidable, and many present processes will become 
obsolete as a result. Banking services are already preparing to implement blockchain 
in the near future, which will enable them to operate with trustless, self-sustaining 
and decentralized networks. 
References 
1. Aste T, Tasca P, Di Matteo T (2017) Blockchain technologies: the foreseeable impact on society 
and industry. Computer 50(9):18–28 
2. Nakamoto S (2008) Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system. Decentralized Business Rev 
21260 
3. Kouhizadeh M, Sarkis J (2018) Blockchain practices, potentials, and perspectives in greening 
supply chains. Sustainability 10(10):3652 
4. Farnaghi M, Mansourian A (2020) Blockchain, an enabling technology for transparent and 
accountable decentralized public participatory GIS. Cities 105:102850 
5. Six N, Herbaut N, Salinesi C (2022) Blockchain software patterns for the design of decentralized 
applications: a systematic literature review. Blockchain: Res Appl 100061 
6. Kroll JA, Davey IC, Felten EW (2013) The economics of Bitcoin mining, or Bitcoin in the 
presence of adversaries. In: Proceedings of WEIS, vol 2013(11) 
7. Tschorsch F, Scheuermann B (2016) Bitcoin and beyond: a technical survey on decentralized 
digital currencies. IEEE Commun Surv Tutorials 18(3):2084–2123 
8. Zheng Z, Xie S, Dai H, Chen X, Wang H (2017) An overview of blockchain technology: 
Architecture, consensus, and future trends. In: 2017 IEEE international congress on big data 
(BigData congress), pp 557–564 
9. Wood G (2014) Ethereum: a secure decentralized generalised transaction ledger. Ethereum 
Project Yellow Paper 151:1–32 
10. Mohanta BK, Panda SS, Jena D (2018) An overview of smart contract and use cases in 
blockchain technology. In: 2018 9th international conference on computing, communication 
and networking technologies (ICCCNT), IEEE, pp 1–4 
11. Casino F, Dasaklis TK, Patsakis C (2019) A systematic literature review of blockchain-based 
applications: current status, classification and open issues. Telematics Inform 36:55–81 
12. Metcalfe W (2020) Ethereum, smart contracts. DApps. Blockchain and Crypt Currency, pp 77 
13. Nguyen H, Pham T, Nguyen T, Do N, Nguyen H (2019) KardiaChain-the first decentralized 
interoperable and self-optimised blockchain ecosystem 
14. McGhin T, Choo KKR, Liu CZ, He D (2019) Blockchain in healthcare applications: Research 
challenges and opportunities. J Netw Comput Appl 135:62–75
Blockchain Technology and Decentralized … 563
15. Lasseter RH, Paigi P (2004) Microgrid: a conceptual solution. In: 2004 IEEE 35th annual power 
electronics specialists conference (IEEE Cat. No. 04CH37551), vol 6. IEEE, pp 4285–4290 
16. Lee L (2015) New kids on the blockchain: How bitcoin’s technology could reinvent the stock 
market. Hastings Bus LJ 12:81 
17. Pawlak M, Poniszewska-Marańda A (2021) Trends in blockchain-based electronic voting 
systems. Inform Process Managem 58(4):02595 
18. Gatteschi V, Lamberti F, Demartini C, Pranteda C, Santamaría V (2018) Blockchain and smart 
contracts for insurance: is the technology mature enough?. Future Internet 10(2):20 
19. Tan E, Mahula S, Crompvoets J (2022) Blockchain governance in the public sector: a conceptual 
framework for public management. Government Inform Quart 39(1):101625 
20. Fatima N, Agarwal P, Sohail SS (2022) Security and privacy issues of blockchain technology 
in health care—a review. ICT Anal Appl 193–201 
21. Agarwal P, Idrees SM, Obaid AJ (2021) Blockchain and IoT technology in transformation of 
education sector. Int J Online Biomed Eng 17(12)
	 Blockchain Technology and Decentralized Applications Using Blockchain
	1 Introduction
	2 Background Review
	2.1 Blockchain Transaction Process
	2.2 Ethereum Transaction
	2.3 Smart Contracts
	3 Decentralized Applications (DApps)
	3.1 What Distinguishes a DApp from a Centralized Application?
	3.2 Decentralized Application and Blockchain
	3.3 The Case for DApps
	4 Making of Decentralized Application (DApps)
	5 Challenges in Decentralized Application (DApps)
	5.1 Obligation of Laws
	5.2 Scalability
	6 The Future of Decentralized Application (DApps)
	7 Limitations
	8 Conclusion
	References