A Blockchain Solution for Universal Electronic Health Record: Mexican Healthcare System Case
A Blockchain Solution for Universal Electronic
Health Record: Mexican Healthcare System Case
A. F. Jaramillo-Alvarado, G. Diaz-Arango, J. R. Garcia-Baez,
C. Gamino-Aparicio, J. Hernandez-Capistran,
O. J. Velandia-Caballero, J. Huerta-Chua
Research and Postgrade Department,
Instituto Tecnológico Superior de Poza Rica,
Poza Rica, Veracruz, Mexico
Email: anfejaramillo@utp.edu.co
H. Vazquez-Leal
Facultad de Instrumentación Electronica,
Universidad Veracruzana,
Xalapa, Veracruz, Mexico
Email: hvazquez@uv.mx
Abstract—The Mexican health system cover around 69 million
people by public healthcare programs and private institutions.
A universal electronic health record (EHR) is a fundamental
software to enhance the quality of medical services and ad-
ministrative procedures, and only until 2013 the law focused
in this topic was decreed. Due to this, the EHRs in Mexico
are very fragmented and have little coverage throughout the
country, also they do not comply the international requirements
and the totality of the public standards. In this work the
technical, functional and legal requirements for EHR systems
are presented and described where blockchain technology arise
as a fundamental framework to meet them, also a review
of conventional server-client EHRs in Mexico and the most
important blockchain based EHR implementations are exposed.
Finally, the architecture, the components description and the
software design patterns necessary in a universal EHR are
exposed and explained, in which the technical and functional
requirements are accomplished, and in the case of the Mexican
healthcare system the legal requirements are met too.
Index Terms—Electronic Health Record, EHR, Blockchain,
Mexican Health System, Decentralized Storage.
I. INTRODUCTION
AS most of the countries in the world, Mexican health sys-
tem has two main components: public and private. The
private hospital are the majority, with almost two thirds of
total, but also most of them are small establishments (only
around of 6% of them have more than fifty beds [2]). In
contrast, the IMSS is the biggest public institution, there
almost 69 million affiliated people are assisted, and IMSS-
Bienestar more than 11 million of not affiliated persons [3],
between them assist the sixty-three percent of the Mexican
population.
Public and private institutions lack fundamental problems
that can not be allowed in a critical industries such as the
healthcare system like a low number of medical personnel (a
hundred thousand deficit [4]), a restricted per capita budget
(second-last in the OECD countries [5]), a not reliable and
non-standardized electronic health record (EHR), medicine
shortage [2], etc. In this work we present a decentralized
application architecture that focus on the most demanding
features in the medical industry for the EHRs, from law
accomplishment to the specific requirements in the healthcare
institutions to manage patients, doctors and the administrative
workers.
Medical records in Mexican hospitals, electronic and not
electronic, are stored locally, in a centralized server (elec-
tronic) or physical proceedings. These records are not shared
neither among other hospitals, patients or doctors, and even
sharing data between different hospital sections may be dif-
ficult. Useful and valuable patients health information is lost
or mutate due to the fact that records are only stored locally,
since they are not transferable, patient can not access to his
own record (unless a court order demands it), even the details
of the record are lost if a transfer to other hospital is needed,
as the record given to the patient is only a summary. It is
also common the misinterpretation of handwritten records and
the loss of a paper or prescription, this cause a bad diagnosis,
bad treatment and even death, being medical errors the third
leading cause of death in the USA [6].
The EHRs were not considered in the Mexican General
Health Law until 2013, when NOM-024-SSA-2012 was de-
creed, which imposed on the health industry that an EHR
system would be mandatory. In the NOM-024-SSA-2012
the criteria and requirements are established for the gen-
public sector is composed of social security institutions that 
provide service to formalized workers through the public insti-
tutions such as Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social (IMSS), 
Instituto de Seguridad y Servicios Sociales de los Trabajadores 
del Estado (ISSSTE), among others. These institutions have 
been used to implementing public social health programs like 
IMSS-Bienestar, Seguro Popular de Salud (SPS). These public 
programs are focused on people without formal health security. 
On the other hand, private entities can be accessed by everyone 
that can afford the service and it is provided by institutions 
that not belong to the government.
According to the last population census, Mexico has 126 
million of people inhabitant [1]. A Mexican patient can be 
assisted in one of the 4903 hospitals in the country [2]. The
978-1-6654-5213-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 E
ng
in
ee
rin
g 
V
er
ac
ru
z 
(I
C
EV
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
52
13
-7
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
EV
56
25
3.
20
22
.9
95
92
74
           2022 IEEE International Conference on Engineering Veracruz (IEEE ICEV 2022®)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
eration, storage, interpretation and exchange of information
among Electronic Health Record Information Systems [7].
There the requirements imposed for the EHRs are technical
and functional, since the connectivity requirements demands
an architecture that meets the open connections with some
government web applications/APIs. In general, the technical
and functional requirements in NOM-024-SSA-2012 and the
observed by patients and doctors, for a universal EHR are as
follows:
• Interoperability. The ability to exchange information be-
tween hospitals, institutions and medical doctors is re-
quired, where the patient owns his data and also has
the power to share their records to multiple or differ-
ent health providers, pharmaceutical companies, research
institutions, etc. The capability to add complementary
information to his record like vital signs history, adminis-
tered vaccines, diet, recreational drugs, hours of rest and
exercise, etc. is mandatory.
• Low latency. A rapid response is fundamental in critical
operations as medical ones. This is a tough task mainly
because of the amount of data that needs to be processed,
stored and queried.
• Big data storage. Management and storage of a large
amount of data must be supported, since a hospital
generates approximately fifty Petabytes per year [8]. A
distributed storage scheme must be used to guarantee this
characteristic, mostly for imaging files.
• Data robustness. Information always be available, private,
secured and protected to data leakage, immune to changes
and losses. Blockchain technologies, through its natural
cryptography properties, can guarantee immutability of
the records, authentication of patients and doctors, and
also security and privacy of the data [9].
• Treatment optimization and utilization of the data. Corre-
lation of historical data of a specific patient to improve of
their treatments and diagnosis assistance through Artifi-
cial Intelligence (AI) is one of the most priorities, because
97% of the health data is not used or even accessed after
their collection [10].
• Medical inventory. Besides the medical record, a list of
available medicine, medical equipment, items, vehicles,
furniture are fundamental, as well as traceability of all
these medical objects is desired.
• Compatibility with generation of assisted reports. Au-
tomatic reports generation for institutions that interact
with the law as insurance companies, pharmaceutical
institutions, etc. The advantages of these reports are the
streamlining of legal issues, the protection of patient
rights and transparency due to the immutability of regis-
ters.
In addition to the technical and functional requirements, a
universal EHR demands international standards to allow the in-
teroperability, information privacy and software requirements,
the most important them as described below:
• International Statistical Classification of Diseases and
Related Health Problems, ICD. It is an international
standard, published by the World Health Organization
(WHO), and as its name indicates, it classifies and
encodes diseases, symptoms, causes of diseases, injuries
and death, etc. The most recent version, ICD-11, was
approved in 2019, and it is mandatory to be adopted in
any electronic health record system [12].
• Health Level Seven/Fast Healthcare Interoperability Re-
sources, HL7/FHIR. FHIR is a standard for data format,
encoding and exchange of information between different
health systems, an evolution from previous versions of
HL7, that supports standard web communications like
HTTP/HTTPS, JSON, XML and REST API support
[13]. Interoperability can be achieved with both ICD
and HL7/FHIR because the data is well formatted and
obeys both standards, the remaining task would be the
transmission of information through a secure channel.
• Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine, DI-
COM. Imaging standard that establishes the way in which
medical images are stored, printed, acquired, compressed
(without loss) and shared through a network [11]. This is
an especial standard for every EHR application, mainly
because imaging is the most demanding area of the
project, in terms of storage, processing and data acquisi-
tion processes.
• Cryptography. The privacy of data is a main topic to
be solved and an aspect to take into account, since
the information shared between systems are confiden-
tial and private. HTTPS protocol for internet related
communications is widely used in web applications like
[21]. Blockchain raises as a key technology that em-
ploys cryptography natively, and which recently has been
adopted by many of business projects. Blockchain in
EHRs has been employed for the construction of decen-
tralized records in which each node of the network has
a copy of the medical registers, where the records are
immutable since any addition or modification operations
to the database are registered, using cryptography and
making this chain of linked entries immutable, even if
that registered information belongs to the authentication,
diagnosis, prescriptions, treatments and laboratory tests.
Finally, the decentralized finance (DeFi) enables the peer
to peer exchange of cryptocurrencies between patients or
members of the network allowing the establishment of
new types of medical services, and making introduction
to the industry easier. [14]- [16].
This work presents a solution for the universal EHR that
meets the requirements before stated, composed by a web
client in which medical institutions will build the records by
registering every medical activity. A blokchain, also known as
ledger, containing medical information of the institution, text
data and imaging files of the patients. Distributed databases
implemented through blockchain technologies, and a REST
API as interface between the web client and databases to guar-
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
antee instantaneous access, data integrity and immutability.
The implementation of standards like HL7/FHIR to enable
the storage of medical records meets the interoperability
requirement between institutions, which is a mainly feature
within the objective of the proposed system.
The structure of this paper is as follows. In the section two
we present a summary of EHRs in Mexico and also blockchain
based EHRs. The section three describes the proposed univer-
sal EHR system. Section four, presents the discussion giving
the advantages and disadvantages of the proposed system, and
finally, the conclusions section is exposed.
II. ELECTRONIC HEALTH RECORDS
This section explores Mexican EHRs, we introduce two
EHRs raised as public initiatives and officially used in the
states of Colima and Ciudad de México (CDMX), that have
achieved great results, also a private project that is in accor-
dance with NOM-024 is described. The main characteristic
of these EHRs is that institutions and medical doctors have
the power over data, patients have not control on their own
records. Secondly, countries like Australia, Estonia and Fin-
land have EHRs similar to the ones reported in Mexico [17],
then we focused to blockchain based EHRs, three of the most
important are briefly described, where patient empowerment
over his data is the main objective.
A. EHRs in Mexico
Mexican EHRs were born twenty three years ago with
NOM-168-SSA1-1998 and since then, sixty five public health
EHRs were created [19]. State governments are the main pro-
moters, being Colima and CDMX the ones that have achieved
significant results. “Sistema Administativo del Expediente
Clinico de Colima” (SAECCOL) is present in every public
hospital that assist non-social workers, a total of 134 facilities
[18]. Its main objective is to register medical information in
a digital, continuous, efficient and allowing the storage and
exchange of EHRs between the hospitals network of the state.
The main components of this EHR are a desktop application
and a real time updated website. This system has also been
implemented in some institutions in Guanajuato, Chiapas and
202 hospital facilities in Tlaxcala that corresponds to a 100%
coverage in that state.
“Sistema de Administracion Medica e informacion Hospi-
talaria” (SAMIH) is an EHR that connects thirty one hospitals
around Mexico City. It has been recognized as a platform
that fulfills HL7 requirements [19], and as a consequence
interoperability within the hospitals is guaranteed. SAMIH
has reduced waiting times for the patient, improved security
and identification of patients with a unique and only record
in the system, a better tracking of vaccines, allergies, drug
dependencies, etc. Since its implementation, more than four
million of patients have been registered and contributed to the
generation of health statistics employed in the development of
more efficient public health programs.
On the private side of EHRs, there are systems that are
mostly adapted to the specific requirements of the institutions.
Medisel is an EHR offered mainly to individuals and medical
doctors [21]. It is a platform aligned with NOM-024-SSA3-
2012, used by more than two thousand medical doctors,
with the record of five million of patients and being active
since 2007. This platform includes telemedicine services,
prescription administration, laboratory tests, statistical reports,
appointment administration, among other functionalities.
B. Blockchain based EHRs
Currently, there are several EHRs that take advantage of
innate characteristics of blockchain technologies, being a
distributed database acting like a historical ledger, and giving
immutability to the recorded entries in the ledger, enabling de-
sired behaviors to the cryptocurrencies, DeFi, etc. A summary
of EHRs based on blockchain technology is introduced.
Medicalchain is a decentralized platform that allows the
exchange, usage, and fast access of medical data [14]. They
use blockchain technology to create a single EHR of the user
that has total control of who can view his records, how much
and for how long. Medicalchain is also a platform for digital
health applications fed by the data of the user. Currently,
two applications are being developed in this platform, a
telemedicine app that enable a user to consult a doctor at
the distance and an marketplace that allows a commercial
negotiation between the user and third parties for the usage
of his health data.
Medical Veda is very similar to Medicalchain, they have a
distributed EHR, decentralized data management, where the
user is the owner of his data and has the power of sharing
and negotiate with third parties for the use of their records
[15]. An attractive aspect of this project is the introduction
of capabilities of DeFi, in which peer to peer lending enables
users to carry out procedures and also gives this opportunity to
doctors so that they can get capital for medical projects. This
is made through an ERC-20 token deployed in the Ethereum
network. AI-based chat bots that use big data and machine
learning are also available for mild diseases or an initial
diagnostic.
Solve.Care [16] have as main objective to diminish the
excessive healthcare administration costs, where up to 30%
of medical bills goes towards administrative fees, this money
should be directed to improving healthcare services. By
utilizing blockchain technologies individuals control health
related operations as making appointments, sharing records,
comparing prices, managing prescriptions, make payments,
etc. Their first client was a big health organization, Arizona
Care Network that has 250 thousand patients, five thousand
doctors and two thousand locations. In Table 1 the main
blockchain related characteristics of the projects mentioned
are shown.
III. PROPOSED SYSTEM
The proposed EHR system is based on development tech-
nologies such as Blockchain, Model View Controller (MVC),
Distributed Databases, REST API and the Ethereum platform
to implementing an ERC 20 standard token. The architecture
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Table I
BLOCKCHAIN BASED EHRS
Characteristic Medicalchain Medical Veda Solve.Care
Blockchain
technology
Ethereum/
Hyperledger
Fabric
Ethereum/
Hyperledger
Fabric
Ethereum
Consensus
protocol
Proof of work/
PBFT
Proof of work/
PBFT
Proof of work
ICO/IEO
(USD)
$0.25 ICO $0.16 IEO $0.1 ICO
Capitalization
(USD)
$1,284,914 - $23,390,436
Marketplace Yes Yes Yes
Status In Operation In
Development
In Operation
PBFT: Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance
ICO: Initial Coin Offering
IEO: Initial Exchange Offering
of the whole EHR system meets the SOLID principles [22] and
the architecture requirements for blockchain applications [23]
to optimize the development and support processes starting
from the software design step. The general architecture of the
proposed system is shown in Fig. 1 where each layer only can
invoke methods in the layer below and the result must be given
to the layer above accomplishing the Inversion Dependency
Principle. The transversal layer must contain only utilities,
helpers and entities definitions. Each component of the system,
its technology and main objective are described below.
Figure 1. Components, their layers and interactions in a universal EHR
system.
A. WEB Client
The user interface of the EHR system must be implemented
as a WEB Application, and the design pattern that must be
used is MVC, because its implementation allow to add new
features, updates and bugs corrections easily, since the struc-
ture of the project diversifies its specific functionalities at the
level of single files, so by this way the Single Responsibility
Principle and Open/Close Principle are implementing in the
system.
B. Distributed Database
The data storage technology is a critical issue considering
that the loss and mutability of the data is a common problem
in today’s EHR systems. Due to this, a fast and immutable
distributed database is needed to store information, so the
Blockchain technology is mandatory to meet that require-
ments. All data within the database must be encrypted using
a symmetrical cryptography, since the patients must have the
keys to have greater control over their own information.
C. REST API for Blockchain Access
An API REST server is needed to access the storage
information in the EHR system by a structured read processes,
and the changes made it to records must be done through trans-
actions, so the immutability and traceability for information of
EHR is ensured. The REST API must be implemented through
the HTTPS or TLS protocols to prevent phishing and others
identity supplanting techniques.
D. Binary to Connectivity Management
To allow a third party nodes to contribute with the decen-
tralized EHR database to empower the patients and doctors, a
desktop multi-platform application to management the connec-
tion to the blockchain network is fundamental, since through
this software the community have a way to verify the integrity
and transaction history of the EHR data, even without an
access to the information decrypted. This binary allow to any
user to join and have a copy of all information, but the keys
remains only belongs to the patient preserving the privacy of
data.
Taking into account each component definition of the
technological solution, we now explain the way that they
are integrated to meet the technical, functional and legal
requirements for a universal EHR implemented within Mexico.
IV. RUNTIME AND DISSCUSSION
The medical institutions are the only type of nodes that can
access to the WEB Client and REST API. The client must be
implementing in a traditional server-client schema using the
MVC pattern, since each computer within the VPN of hospital
must have to access to the client to read/modify the infor-
mation, this must be conducted through an Object Relational
Mapping (ORM) component to bring the capabilities needed
for the data model. In the same way, the REST API must
be allocated within the same server to manage the requests
generated by any user in the web client and interact with the
blockchain network as read/writer peer. To allow the decrypt
and writting information in the blockchain the subscribers
must be verified, this is done through the use of the binary
to manage connections, this send request to a central server to
obtain a proper credentials, and the verification must be done
manually. Also, this connection generate a token to specific
permissions requested.
All the requirements are reviewed in the following points,
to expose how to achieve it and how it should work.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
A. Standards
All information in the distributed database must be en-
crypted and the key is only given to the medical institutions
by previous approve from the patients. The structure of the
database must contain a constant values for the ICD standard,
by this way the relation between the records of each patient
must refer to that registers. Also, all information stored must
formatted following the resource-type pattern exposed in the
HL7/FHIR standard to ensure the native compatibility with the
standard. Finally, the DICOM standard must be implemented
through the use of a compression/decompression algorithm
recommended, a compatible VPN network structure for insti-
tutional users, and with an interface that make the read/write
processes seem a conventional server-client schema.
B. Interoperability
Being one of the main requirements, it is fundamental to
provide a native interoperability capability within the universal
EHR, this can be reached through the standard implementation
mentioned above and including import/export services within
WEB Client. That services must taking into account the ex-
tension resources types (FHIR) and private specific structures
mappings.
C. Low Latency and Big Data Management
The low latency is reached through the use of the de-
centralized database, since exists two types of servers. The
first is the private and third party members that join to
the blockchain, and the second is the local server of the
medical institutions which is an anchor peer of the blockchain
network, also, this decentralized structure gives the big data
management capability to the universal EHR system. For the
case of distributed database with blockchain technology the
consensus protocol must be chosen taking into account a quick
response of the network (Proof of Elapsed Time protocol is
recommended).
D. Data Robustness and Immutability
The blockchain technology provides a native immutability
and data robustness to the information stored, but also the
consensus protocol must be chosen prioritizing the stability of
the network, because protocols like PBFT have the chance to
corrupt the network if the "bad" nodes exceeds the 33% + 1
of the total of nodes.
E. Medical Inventory and Assisted Reports
The assisted reports are of two types, AI assisted diagnostics
for the patients and medical reports for the insurance or
pharmaceutical companies etc. Since the EHR system have
the whole clinical history of the patients, AI assisted reports
for treatments and diagnostics can be generated with more
accuracy, having a direct impact in the patient healthcare. The
autogenerated medical reports for several types of companies
are useful, since the data provided and the traceability of the
information are the most demanding and desired characteristic,
and due to the technology used in database this capabilities
are covered. The medical inventory and traceability is included
within the EHR system with the blockchain technology capa-
bilities.
By the criteria exposed above, the recommended technolo-
gies to implementing the components in the universal EHR
should have frameworks with Long Time Support (LTS) ver-
sions, due to this the suggested frameworks are shown below.
For the WEB client is mandatory an MVC framework like
CakePHP (PHP), React (Javascript) or even DJango (Python).
In the case of REST API server this can be implemented
in any web server framework like NodeJS (Javascript) or
ASP.NET (C#), and the blockchain distributed database must
be developed with a framework that allows to manage the
join/leave processes from an independent binary, the read/write
permissions and compatible with TLS protocol.
V. CONCLUSIONS
The technical and functional requirements for a universal
EHR were introduced, also the legal needs for this type of
application in Mexico were shown too. A brief review of
conventional server-client schema and blockchain based EHR
implementations were presented, where the blockchain emerge
as a critical technology that must be in charge of managing
the stored information. Starting from whole requirements we
presented the architecture of a universal EHR system, also
the technologies, target objectives and their descriptions of
the components of the system were presented and explained.
Following the structure and design patterns specified in this
work, the EHR system developed meets the technical and func-
tional requirements specified in the Mexican General Health
Law NOM-024-SSA-2012, at the same time, the international
standards like HL7/FHIR implemented gives to the system a
native interoperability with the existing EHR systems allowing
a smooth market transition.
REFERENCES
[1] Instituto Nacional de Estadistica y Geografia, “Censo de poblacion y
vivienda 2020,” 2020, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.inegi.org.mx/programas/ccpv/2020/default.html
[2] M. A. G. Block, H. R. Morales, L. C. Baladran, A. Mendez and World
Health Organization. “Mexico: health system review,” 2020, Accessed:
Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://apps.who.int/iris/handle/10665
/334334
[3] Statista Research Department, “Numero de derechohabientes en el Insti-
tuto Mexicano del Seguro Social por tipo 2020,” 2022, Accessed: Jul. 15,
2022. [Online]. Available: https://es.statista.com/estadisticas/599093/nu
mero-de-derechohabientes-en-el-instituto-mexicano-del-seguro-social-
por-tipo/
[4] S. B. Fernandez, “El acto Medico: Error y la mal praxis,” CONAMED,
2016, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: http://www.coname
d.gob.mx/gobmx/boletin/pdf/boletin5/acto_medico.pdf
[5] Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, “Gasto en
Salud, 2021,” 2022, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.oecd.org/centrodemexico/estadisticas/gastoensalud.htm
[6] M. A. Makary and M. Daniel “Medical error, the third leading cause of
death en the US” British Medical J., vol. 353, p. i2139, 2016.
[7] J. A. Ochoa, “El expediente clinico electronico universal en Mexico,”
CONAMED, 2018, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: www.
conamed.gob.mx/gobmx/boletin/pdf/boletin18/expediente.pdf
[8] EMC MC, “The digital universe driving data growth in healthcare,” 2014,
Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.cycloneinterac
tive.com/cyclone/assets/File/digital-universe-healthcare-vertical-report-a
r.pdf
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[9] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,” 2008,
Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022, [Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.
pdf
[10] K. Murphy, “How data will improve healthcare without adding staff or
beds,” 2019, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://www.
wipo.int/edocs/pubdocs/en/wipo_pub_gii_2019-chapter8.pdf
[11] H. Leal Vazquez, R. Martinez Campos, C. Blazquez Dominquez and
R. Castaneda Sheissa, “Un expediente clinico electronico universal para
Mexico: caracteristicas, retos y beneficios,” Rev. Medica Univ. Ver-
acruzana, no. 228, p. 53, 2011.
[12] L. M. Torres and M. Yanez, “La nueva revision de la clasificacion
internacional de enfermedades (CIE-11),” CONAMED, 2019, Accessed:
Jul 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: http://www.conamed.gob.mx/gobmx/b
oletin/pdf/boletin26/Besp26_15.pdf
[13] HL7, “Executive summary,” HL7, Accessed: Jul 15, 2022. [Online].
Available: https://www.hl7.org/fhir/summary.html
[14] Medicalchain, “Medicalchain white paper,” Medicalchain, White Paper,
2018,Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://medicalchain.c
om/Medicalchain-Whitepaper-EN.pdf
[15] Medicalveda, “Medicalveda white paper,” Medicalveda, White Paper,
2020, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://medicalveda.
com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/whitepaper.pdf
[16] Solve Care, “Solve Care platform for decentralization of healdcare and
benefits administration,” Solve Care, White Paper, 2018, Accessed: Jul.
15, 2022. [Online]. Available: https://solve.care/docs/solve-care-whitepa
per/solve-care-whitepaper.pdf
[17] Competitive Intelligence Unit, “Expediente clinico electronico en Mex-
ico,” Competitive Ingelligence Unit, 2021. [Online]. Available:
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/587fdc951b10e30ca5380172/t/6189
9479c81043611a8c6911/1636406394990/The+CIU-Working+Paper+Ser
ies+2020-III+E+lectronic+Health+Record_ESP+v24.pdf
[18] Secretaria de Salud Colima, “Manual de implementacion expediente
clinico electronico SAECCOL,” 2013. [Online]. Available: https://salu
dcolima.gob.mx/images/documentos/4_a_1.0_MIM001_Manual_de_Imp
lementacion_del_Expediente_Clinico_Electronico_SAECCOL_V.1.0_2
013.pdf
[19] S. K. Neme, “A 20 anos de la implementacion del expediente clinico
electronico en Mexico,” CONAMED, 2019, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022.
[Online]. Available: http://www.conamed.gob.mx/gobmx/boletin/pdf
/boletin26/Besp26_10.pdf
[20] J. G. Morales, “Sistema de administracion medica e informacion hospi-
talaria con expediente clinico electronico, una experiencia en ciudad de
mexico,” CONAMED, 2019, Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022. [Online]. Available:
http://www.conamed.gob.mx/gobmx/boletin/pdf/boletin26/Besp26_11.pd
f
[21] “MediSel, Expediente Clinico Electronico”. MediSel, Expediente Clin-
ico Electronico. https://expedienteclinico.mx/ (Accessed: Jul. 15, 2022).
[22] Joshi, Bipin "Beginning SOLID Principles and Design Patterns for
ASP.NET Developers", Apress, Berkeley, CA, pp. 1-44, ISBN: 978-1-
4842-1848-8
[23] Irannezhad, Elnaz "The Architectural Design Requirements of a
Blockchain-Based Port Community System", MDPI Logistics, vo. 4, no.
4, pp. 1-44. DOI: 10.3390/logistics4040030
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.