Comprehensive overview on the deployment of machine learning, deep learning, reinforcement learning algorithms in Selfish mining attack in blockchain
2022 IEEE 2nd Mysore Sub Section International Conference (MysuruCon) 
978-1-6654-9790-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 
Comprehensive overview on the deployment of 
machine learning, deep learning, reinforcement 
learning algorithms in Selfish mining attack in 
blockchain 
1st M.J. Jeyasheela Rakkini  
School of Computing  
SASTRA Deemed University 
Thanjavur, India 
jeyasheelarakkini@cse.sastra.ac.in  
2nd K. Geetha 
School of Computing 
SASTRA Deemed University  
Thanjavur, India 
geetha@cse.sastra.edu 
Abstract— Blockchain, a disruptive technology, has many 
applications in the domain of Finance, banking, real estate, 
insurance, supply chain, gaming industry with much more 
plethora of applications in near future.  In spite of the 
decentralized, distributed, transparent, tamper-proof, data-  
provenance nature of the blockchain, it is subject   to a lot of 
security   attacks such as forking   attacks   and   block 
withholding   attacks.   One such attack   under   the forking 
attack   is selfish mining, which targets the reward distribution 
and also the difficulty adjustment algorithms(DAA).  An 
exhaustive surve is done on the existing approaches to detect 
selfish mining and also on the profitability of selfish mining 
attacks.  This survey is organized particularly around the 
aspects of selection or exploration of the shortest branch of the 
blockchain when a fork occurs. We aim to identify the 
implications of selecting the shorter branch   of the fork in the 
blockchain, especially after 2016 blocks, where a difficulty 
adjustment occurs.  Our survey focuses on the deployment   of 
machine learning and deep learning, reinforcement methods on 
mitigating the selfish mining attacks in the blockchain.  
Keywords— Selfish  mining,  Reinforcement  learning,   hash 
rate,  Difficulty adjustment algorithms, forking attack.  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Satoshi [1] proposed a peer to peer money transaction 
system without the need for thirdparty or the intermediate 
party and also a way to mitigate the double spending attack in 
digital currency with blockchain architecture. Blockchain is a 
ledger of records backed up by hash functions. The records 
hold blocks of transactions and may be up to 1 MB in size. 
The inter block arrival time is 10 minutes in bitcoin 
blockchain and the block is mined by miners. Mining is the 
process of collecting the transactions from the mempool in the 
full node and solving a puzzle. Mining is done by the miners 
who have built a mining rig with CPU, GPU and ASIC and 
would be either doing solo mining or have joine the mining 
pools. 
 Colloborating with the miners in the mining pool and 
getting paid accordingly for the hash rate contribution is the 
prudent mining. There are some crypto farms who offer hash 
rate to mine cryptocurrencies for a rational rate. 
Mining is the process of finding a target value or a nonce 
that when appended with the hash of the current block and 
hash of the previous block, results in a hash that is less than 
the target hash value given by the PoW system. The header of 
the block and the nonce are hashed repeatedly. Once the has 
value reduced below the threshold which is determined by the 
difficulty level in the Proof of Work (PoW) systems, the 
finding of target process will continue. PoW systems consume 
more electricity and have huge investment for their 
infrastructure.  Proof of Stake consensus algorithms require 
only mild computational power, electricity and involves 
validators who stake their cryptocurrency Ether for the 
validation of transactions. There are many consensus 
algorithms and to design a consensus algorithm, is a 
interesting research insight. In Fig 1., illustrates the blocks in 
blockchain. 
 
Fig. 1. The chaining of blocks in blockchain 
The blocks have time stamp, previous block hash merkle 
hash of the current transactions in the current block and nonce. 
The full node has the full blockchain running with all the 
blocks, which amounts to massive data. Lightweight nodes 
have only the block headers and uses simplified payment 
verification method to verify the transactions.  Bitcoin 
blockchain uses proof of work and Ethereum uses proof of 
stake for the consensus mechanisms.  Crypto wallets are used 
to store the rewards of the miners. 
Bitcoin mining involves finding a hash value that is equal 
to Hash (Nonce|| hash of transactions in current block||  hash 
of the previous block) < target value.. This will give a value 
of 256 bits.(||-append symbol). Hash rate is the computational 
power in MB/s used for verification of transactions and in the 
formation of new blocks. orphaned blocks are valid blocks 
that are rejected and are not in that major canonical 
blockchain. The availability of malicious activity in the 
blockchain mining is directly proportional to the orphaned 
blocks. Each block has time stamp, merkle tree of the 
transactions collected by the miner, in forming a block of one 
megabyte and hash of the previous block. Genesis block is the 
first block in the blockchain. Coinbase transaction in each 
block has the crypto address of the miners. In this crypto 
address, the miners get their mining rewards. Blockchain as a 
disruptive technology, has it’s applications in plethora of 
domains such as finance, banking sector, logistics and supply 
chain management, health care sector, insurance, tracking of 
land assets and much more as given in Narayanan et al .[2]. In 
Fig 2., Selfish mining is 
20
22
 IE
EE
 2
nd
 M
ys
or
e 
Su
b 
Se
ct
io
n 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
(M
ys
ur
uC
on
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
97
90
-9
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
M
ys
ur
uC
on
55
71
4.
20
22
.9
97
24
84
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Fig. 2. Selfish  mining 
shown with the branches of the fork from selfish miners 
and honest miners. Jeyasheela et al. [7] gives the exploration 
of the branch of the fork of honest  miners,  which is shorter  
than the branch  of the selfish miners.  The research directions 
in 
 
Fig. 3. Selfish  mining 
the blockchain are in designing new consensus 
mechanisms that are efficient than the existing algorithms, 
privacy and security preserving applications, data provenance 
applications in blockchain, federated machine learning 
algorithms and attack mitigation, detection strategies in 
blockchain who release two or more blocks at the same time 
when honest miners release a block, to earn more rewards. 
Reinforcement learning methods can be used to explore the 
profitability of the selfish miners, to select an optimal mining 
technique and also to mitigate the selfish mining attack. Henry 
et al. [3] discusses the privacy access methods of blockchain 
and to publish transactions anonymously in permissioned and 
permission less blockchain. n Fig 4., the previous papers have 
analyzed the profitability 
 
Fig. 4. Taxonomy of Selfish mining attack 
of selfish mining attacks with MDP simulators, 
profitability of selfish mining with different difficulty 
adjustment algorithms, the time for profitability,  optimal 
selfish mining attack  with the combination  of  other attacks 
such as  Eclipse attack, mitigation  of selfish mining attacks  
and detection  of selfish mining  attacks. The possibility  of 
deploying  deep learning models,  machine  learning  models  
in selfish  mining  datasets has not been explored in full. With 
the selfish mining dataset, the possibility of  offline 
reinforcement  learning with SM datasets has not yet been 
explored. Prediction of the hash rate, classification of the hash 
rate, prediction of the rewards of the selfish miners are yet to 
be developed in machine learning and deep learning (ML/DL) 
approaches to selfish mining. 
II. ATTACKS IN BLOCKCHAIN 
A. Double spending attack 
Double spending  attack refers to  the same amount of 
cryptocurrency  spend  frequently  more than once. If  an at- 
tacker can form the longest branch of  the fork with the same 
cryptocurrency  spent, on the other fork also, then it becomes 
a successful  double spending attack. So one has to wait for 6 
confirmations in blocks for a particular transaction to avoid 
double spending. Usman W et al.[4], explores in detail the 
accounting  and auditability  details in double spending 
problems  with cryptocurrencies.  Nicolas et al.[5], analyzed 
defensive  strategies  for selfish mining  and double  spending 
attack strategy  with alert broadcasting,  alert forwarding,  in- 
form about attack, detection of attack and conceptual research 
design about the attacks.  
B. Selfish mining attack  
Selfish mining  attack also known  as block with holding 
attack, is a strategy  known  to increase revenue  of miners 
adapting this strategy,  and to centralize bitcoin mining pools. 
Selfish miners stealthily mine blocks and form a  private 
chain. When the private chain reaches  an adequate size then 
the selfish miner releases  its blocks, at the time the honest 
miners release their block, in order to create a fork. The 
longest fork is accepted  and the selfish miners gain more 
rewards. There are two types of fork, one is hard fork. Hard 
fork is a radical  upgrade that can make previous transactions 
and blocks either  valid or invalid  and requires  all validators  
in a network to upgrade to a newer version. There is no 
backward compatibility and the validators have to validate the 
new chain. The other fork is soft fork. Soft fork is backward 
compatible, has validators  in older version see the new 
version as valid. Soft fork will follow the new rules and will 
also honour the new rules. 
III. MACHINE LEARNING METHODS APPLIED FOR BLOCK 
MINING REWARD PREDICTION 
Blockchain  powered by crypto currencies have 
voluminous real time data ,which can be used for prediction  
of block mining rewards,  with machine  learning  and deep 
learning methods. Simon et al.[6] have implemented a k 
means clustering algorithm with Ethereum crypto miners who 
have unique crypto  addresses  and rewards.  Clustering  
algorithms  can be done with the datasets  posted in  
http://xblock.pro/xblock- eth.html[7].The  silhouette score of 
71% is obtained  for K- means clustering of miners with same  
rewards. Tao-Hung  et al.[8] clusters the crypto  addresses 
based  on the patterns  of transactions. The crypto addresses 
of the miners are classified as the address of the miners or as 
the address of the mining pools. The selfish mining attack is  
mitigated  with upper confidence  bound algorithm  by 
Rakkini et al.[9]. Rakkini  et al.[10] predicts the profitability 
of selfish mining attack with dash cryptocurrency  blockchain  
and the corresponding DAA. 
A. Deep learning 
Prediciton of the crypto coin prices, decentralization 
trends in mining pools, hash rate classification  of the miners, 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
clustering of the miners who have same amount of input and 
output transactions  are the potential  problem  statements  for 
deep learning  and machine  learning  with blockchain.  Gas 
price optimization in Ethereum transactions is another 
problem that has vast potential for the usage of deep learning 
and machine learning algorithms.  Simon  et al.[6] uses keras 
classification model to identify the crypto addresses either  
mining pools or individual miners for binary classification 
problem. The upper confidence bound methodology has been 
used to elect the upcoming branch of the blocks to be included 
to the main blockchain when a fork occurs. This will mitigate 
selfish mining attacks after difficulty adjustment 
algorithm(DAA),  where in previous works, selfish miners 
take over the mining process. 
IV. EXISTING METHODS  
A. How the longer chain is adapted 
Attacker  fork the chain from the genesis block or when 
the difficulty  level is low, and  secretly mine the blocks and 
maintain  a stealthy  chain of blocks. The block time stamps 
are manipulated so that it gives an illusion that the block has 
been mined in the future. Difficulty  adjustment algorithm has 
been manipulated owing to this selfish attack and the difficulty 
has been lowered. Below are the papers that are explored in 
selfish mining, for the detection of selfish mining, profitability 
of selfish mining with respect to their revenue and the reward 
distribution mechanisms. 
V. REINFORCEMENT  LEARNING ALGORITHMS WITH SELFISH 
MINING 
Most of the previous papers have focused on selfish 
mining attack detection  and mitigation.  This paper focusses  
on the selection of the shortest branch when a fork occurs after 
the initial difficulty  adjustment  algorithm.  The longest 
branch of the fork of the selfish miners gets selected, 
according to the protocol of the blockchain. At this stage γ 
hash rate of rational honest miners would drift from honest 
mining pools and mine ahead selfish mining pool’s block for 
more block rewards and this will increase the selfish mining 
attack. This is the basic model of selfish mining as given in 
[18]. Since the fork occurs mainly  due to selfish mining 
activities,  any reinforcement learning that gives the optimal 
attack parameters for mitigating the attack or for increasing 
the relative gain, the revenue of the miners would be of utmost 
importance. 
Wang, Z., et al.[32], analysed the profitability  of selfish 
mining with a higher mining power and the attackers can 
optimize their rewards with scrutinizing attack strategies. 
Charlie Hou et al.[33],explores  optimal selfish mining attack 
in bitcoin blockchain,  Nash equilibrium  in block withholding  
attacks and a  partially  observed  Markov game with multi 
agents is devised  with SquirRL framework.  Here the multi 
agents are selfish miners. A deep reinforcement  learning  is 
used to analyze attacks  on the incentive  mechanisms of 
blockchain. Yang, Guoyu et al.[34], uses reinforcement  
learning strategy to learn a mining  strategy  dynamically  by 
interacting  with the network.  Liu et al.[35] uses blockchain  
enabled deep reinforcement  learning to a secure and reliable  
data sharing among mobile terminals. Lu, Cong, et al.[36], 
analyzes about offline reinforcement learning from visual 
observations, with continuous actions  spaces.  In offline 
reinforcement learning, the objective is to maximize a policy 
that maximizes expected discount  return,  through  
interactions  with the environment. Model based and model  
free environments  are deployed  in offline reinforcement 
learning. Shi, Laixi, et al.[37] analyzes offline reinforcement 
learning for learning an optimal policy using history  data 
without active exploration of the environment. 
TABLE I. COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY  ON THE SELFISH  MINING 
Authors Strategy Method  used Advantages Limitations and  Future  work 
Davidson, M.et al. 
[11] 
Various adjustment 
algorithms are managed by 
the profitability of selfish 
mining algorithms 
Profitability of Selfish mining Suggestion of parameter sets that 
would improve the DAA algorithms 
resilience against selfish mining 
Combinations   of  different DAA 
can be tried 
Eijkel.  D.  et 
al.[12] 
Detection of  selfish 
mining 
The Block publishing height 
model along with the 
Transaction confirmation 
height  model also uded 
Network wide defense mechanism to 
disincentivize selfish miners 
No method  had been devised  to 
fond the re-org  attack  and also to 
find the number of blocks that are 
reorganized. 
Gober, J.A. et 
al.[13] 
Revenue model of the 
Blockchain which focusses 
on  the  profitability of the 
miners. 
The hash rate of the multiple 
selfish miners, speed of 
propagation of the blocks 
mined by them is considered. 
Selfish mining is favorable for miners 
with certain threshold  of hashing 
power, with other network conditions 
in his/her favor. 
True dynamics of such a network has 
not been explored. Classification of 
the hash rate of those multiple selfish 
miners can be explored. 
Zhang .R et al.[14] Fork resolving policy Block that has links to the 
competing block of their 
predecessor is accepted. 
The hash of the uncle block has to 
be embedded in the valid in time 
block for it be appended  as next block. 
Incentive compatibility for   the 
blocks who have embedded  the hash 
of  the uncle block can be devised. 
Grunspan, C et 
al.[15] 
Profitability of selfish 
mining 
Honest miner’s attraction  to 
selfish mining pools after the 
first DAA is explored. 
 The honest  miner when he joins the 
selfish mining  pool after the initial 
DAA increases the relative profit of the 
pool 
The attack vector of withdrawing 
from the network, switching mining 
from one cryptocurrency to another 
with the same hashing function can 
be explored 
Nayak, K,  et 
al.[16] 
Analyzes    Stubborn 
mining     and      its 
profitability 
Combining mining  attacks 
and network level attacks 
crypto mining attack  and network 
level attacks are combined to earn the 
miners more revenue by combining the 
attacks to form a complex strategy, to 
perform analytics with optimal 
parameters  for the same strategy 
To design a secure consensus 
protocol whose security is on 
rationality assumptions 
Bai, Q. et al.[17] Profitability of selfish 
mining 
Markov chain to describe at 
tacker and honest miners 
The minimum hash rate along with the 
minimum  time taken to become 
profitable is derived 
Rather than miners with small hash 
rate, miners with more hash rate can 
collaborate together to  get more 
benefit.  Hence a classification 
algorithm for the hash rate of miners 
can be devised. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Saad, M.  et al.[18] Defense strategy for selfish 
mining 
In order to find the behavior of 
selfish mining, the block 
publishing height along with 
the transaction confirmation 
height  
In order to Disincentivize the selfish 
miners, a network wide defense 
mechanism was utilized  
By including the predictable 
confirmation height in the each 
transactions, the processing  
overhead  and the fees overhead can 
be analyzed 
Negy, K.A. et 
al.[19] 
Profitability of selfish 
mining 
New selfish mining known as 
intermittent  selfish mining is 
developed 
This strategy is more profitable than 
honest mining 
Comparison between intermittent 
selfish mining and smart mining can 
be carried out 
Sapirshtein, A. et 
al. [20] 
Profitability of selfish 
mining 
Model for profitability of 
selfish mining in the presence 
of communication delays 
Algorithm that  finds E-optimal 
policies for selfish  miners and for the 
profitable attack, the  fraction  of 
resources is minimized. 
The algorithm  proposed  by them 
can be used to reduce the 
profitability 
Eyal, I. et al. [21] The basic model of selfish 
mining 
The  blockchain selects  the 
longest branch when a fork 
occurs 
After the first DAA, the honest miners 
get attracted to the selfish mining  pool 
along with the start mining  on the 
head of  the fork of  selfish miners 
A novel method to divert the honest 
miners from joining the selfish 
mining pool can be devised 
Zhu, s. et al.[22] Survey of    Reward 
Distribution mechanisms         
in pool mining. Survey of       
Pool      attack strategies 
and defense mechanisms     
have been examined 
Pay per  share mechanism, Pay    
per    last    N    share 
mechanism, slush mechanism, 
geometric mechanism, double 
geometric Mechanism has 
been extensively studied 
Existing reward distribution 
mechanisms has been studied. 
Summarization of the block 
withholding attacks with defense 
strategies has been done 
Fair and secure practices in bitcoin 
mining pools with validation  has yet 
to be found out 
Zhang, S. et al.[23] Game models are proposed 
to address the denial of 
service, selfish mining and 
majority attack.  
Economic trading and 
energy  the block chain, 
pool allocation and reward 
allocation, also the power 
allocations also 
considerable issues in 
mining management.  
 
Game theory models in reward 
allocation in block mining, 
energy trading is analyzed. 
Sequential game, repeated 
game, potential game, 
extensive form of game and 
non-cooperative form of game 
are various games used in all 
the papers surveyed 
Reviewed and analyzed using game 
theory to   deal   with   security   and 
blockchain mining management 
Game theoretical approach to 
incentive 
mechanism design can be devised 
Francesco et al.[24] Blockchain activities 
are monitored and the 
Ethereum log files are 
analyzed for anomalous 
behavior 
Log files with time stamp of 
Ethereum Classic is analyzed 
for 
anomaly in time series 
Variable auto encoder   is   used   for 
anomaly detection 
A bitcoin blockchain can be used for 
anomaly detection 
Sudeep et al.[25] Analyze the attack on 
blockchain based   net 
works 
Machine learning   approach   
to 
make blockchain more 
resilient to 
attacks including majority 
attack and double spending 
 
IDS that works on fraudulent 
transactions and network attacks in 
blockchain 
based energy applications 
Quantum resilience and privacy 
issues 
has not been declared 
J Niu et al.[26] Determine the threshold 
of computational power for 
selfish mining profitability 
In Ethereum, the selfish 
mining profitability is 
controlled by the threshold 
of computational power. 
Two-dimensional Markov 
process that models the selfish 
mining Ethereum. 
In order to determine the long 
term average mining rewards, 
the stationary distribution of 
Markov model was utilized 
The threshold of computational power 
is lower than 25% as cited by Eyal and 
Sirer 
The major limitation of selfish 
mining is controlled by the mining 
mechanism, When the mining 
mechanism is modified, selfish 
mining pool make major impacts its 
mining strategy to maximize its 
profit. This has to be solved. 
Heilman, E.et al. 
[27] 
Defense mechanism to 
selfish mining 
Incentive compatible defense 
mechanism against selfish 
mining 
The threshold power of mining is 
raised from 25% to 32% by 
unforgeable timestamps 
Freshness of the next block is to 
examined 
Jang J et al.[28] Number of quantitative 
resources to profitable 
double spending attack is 
analyzed 
Derivation of the probability 
distribution function of the 
attack success time is done 
The less is the block confirmation 
number, minimum resource is needed 
for attack 
Given the value of the transaction, 
the network can provide a service to 
inform the payee with the least block 
confirmation number that reduces the 
profit of double spending attack. 
Kedziora, M. et al. 
[29] 
Attack on the proof of 
work consensus of the 
blockchain with selfish 
mining strategy 
Persistent mining algorithm in 
pursuit of a longer chain with 
a modified selfish extraction 
algorithm is used 
Persistent mining algorithm works 
better with the hash rate of the selfish 
miners > 0.37 
Malicious block extraction strategies 
can be explored in detail 
Saad, M.et al.[30] The attack surface of the 
blockchain has been 
analyzed 
The attacks on the blockchain 
structure, attacks on the 
decentralized peer to peer 
system, at tacks on blockchain 
applications have been 
exhaustively studied 
The attacks have been outlined. The 
counter measures are surveyed, major 
threats to blockchain and how one 
attack may facilitate the other attacks 
The hash rate of the attackers plays a 
vital role and any machine learning 
or deep learning algorithm can be 
deployed for the same 
Chicarino et al.[31]Detection of selfish mining Blockchain height deviates 
from a standard heighten alert 
is created 
The probability of detection of selfish 
mining is 99.99% 
The detection has false positive rate 
which can be resolved by machine 
learning methods 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
In this paper we have given the blockchain,  mining basics 
and an comprehensive  survey  on the selfish mining  attack. 
We have taken 37 papers  and made an exhaustive analysis of 
the deployment  of machine  learning,  deep learning  and 
reinforcement  learning  algorithms  in various  ways such as 
clustering  of  crypto addresses,  classification   of  crypto ad- 
dresses,  revenue prediction,  crypto currency  price prediction 
and in the mitigation of selfish mining attacks in blockchain. 
We discussed the usage of bandit algorithms and it’s research 
directions in the alleviation of selfish mining attacks. We hope 
that the survey will guide in the design of many selfish mining 
attack mitigation  methods and will lead to more exploration, 
during  selection of  the next block of  the main canonical 
blockchain,  when a fork occurs. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Nakamoto,  Satoshi,  and A. Bitcoin. “A peer-to-peer electronic  cash 
system.“ Bitcoin. URL: https://bitcoin. org/bitcoin.pdf  4 (2008). 
[2] Narayanan,  Arvind,  et al. “Bitcoin and cryptocurrency  technologies.” 
(2021). 
[3] Henry, Ryan, Amir Herzberg,  and Aniket Kate. “Blockchain access 
privacy:  Challenges  and directions.”  IEEE Security and Privacy 16.4 
(2018): 38-45. 
[4] Chohan, Usman W. “The double  spending problem  and cryptocurren- 
cies.“ Available at SSRN 3090174 (2021). 
[5] Nicolas, Kervins, et al. “Blockchain system defensive  overview  for 
double- spend and selfish mining attacks: A systematic approach.” 
IEEE Access 9 (2020): 3838-3857. 
[6] Simon, Jeyasheela Rakkini, and K.  Geetha. “Block Mining reward 
prediction with Polynomial  Regression,  Long short-term memory, and 
Prophet  API for Ethereum blockchain  miners.” ITM Web of Confer- 
ences. Vol. 37. EDP Sciences, 2021. 
[7] http://xblock.pro/xblock-eth.html. 
[8] Chang, Tao-Hung, and Davor Svetinovic.  “Improving bitcoin 
ownership identification using transaction patterns analysis.” IEEE 
Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems 50.1 (2018): 
9-20. 
[9] Rakkini MJ, and Geetha K. Deep learning classification of bitcoin 
miners and exploration of upper confidence bound algorithm with less 
regret for the selection of honest mining. Journal of Ambient 
Intelligence and Humanized Computing. 2021 Oct 24:1-7. 
[10] Rakkini, Jeyasheela, and K.  Geetha. “Stochastic Gradient Descent with 
Selfish Mining Attack Parameters on Dash Difficulty  Adjustment 
Algorithm.” Machine Vision and Augmented Intelligence—Theory  
and Applications. Springer, Singapore, 2021. 589-597. 
[11] Davidson, Michael, and Tyler Diamond. "On the profitability of selfish 
mining against multiple difficulty adjustment algorithms." Cryptology 
ePrint Archive (2020). 
[12] Eijkel, D., and FehnkSaad,  M., Njilla, L., Kamhoua, C., and Mohaisen, 
(2019, February). Countering selfish mining in blockchains. In 2019 
International Conference on Computing, Networking, and 
Communications (ICNC) (pp. 360-364). IEEE.er, A. (2019, October). 
[13] Gober, J.A., 2018. The Dynamics of a“ Selfish Mining” Infested 
Bitcoin Network:  How the Presence of Adversaries Can Alter the 
Profitability Framework of Bitcoin Mining (Doctoral dissertation). 
[14] Zhang, R.,  and Preneel, B.  (2017,  February).  Publish or perish: A 
backwards-  compatible  defense against selfish mining  in bitcoin. In 
Cryptographers’ Track at the RSA Conference (pp. 277-292). Springer, 
Cham. 
[15] Grunspan, Cyril, and Ricardo Pérez-Marco. "On profitability of selfish 
mining." arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.08281 (2018). 
[16] Nayak, K., Kumar, S., Miller, A., and Shi, E. (2016, March).  Stubborn 
Mining: Generalizing  selfish mining  and combining  with an eclipse 
attack. In 2016 IEEE European  Symposium  on Security  and Privacy 
(EuroSandP)  (pp. 305-320). IEEE. 
[17] Bai, Q., Zhou, X., Wang, X., Xu, Y., Wang, X., and Kong, Q. (2019, 
May). A deep dive into blockchain  selfish mining. In ICC 2019-2019 
IEEE International  Conference  on Communications  (ICC) (pp. 1-6). 
IEEE. 
[18] Saad, M., Njilla, L., Kamhoua, C., and Mohaisen,  A. (2019, February). 
Countering  selfish mining  in blockchains.  In 2019 International  
Conference on Computing,  Networking and Communications (ICNC) 
(pp.360-364). IEEE. 
[19] Negy, K. A., Rizun, P. R., and Sirer, E. G. (2020, February). Selfish 
Mining Re- Examined. In International Conference  on Financial 
Cryptography and Data Security  (pp. 61-78). Springer, Cham. 
[20] Sapirshtein,  A.,  Sompolinsky,  Y.,  and Zohar, A.  (2016,  February). 
Optimal selfish mining strategies in bitcoin. In International 
Conference on Financial  Cryptography and Data Security (pp. 515-
532). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. 
[21] Eyal, I., and Sirer, E. G. (2014, March). Majority is not enough: Bitcoin 
mining is vulnerable. In International conference  on financial 
cryptography and data security  (pp. 436- 454). Springer, Berlin, 
Heidelberg. 
[22] Zhu, S., Li, W., Li, H., Hu, C., and Cai, Z. (2018). A survey: Reward 
distribution mechanisms and withholding attacks in Bitcoin  pool 
mining. Mathematical Foundations of Computing, 1(4), 393. 
[23] Zhang, S.,  Zhang, K.,  and Kemme, B.  (2020, May). A simulation-
based analysis of multi-player selfish mining. in 2020 IEEE 
International Conference on Blockchain  and Cryptocurrency (ICBC) 
(pp. 1-5). IEEE. 
[24] Scicchitano, F., Liguori, A., Guarascio, M., Ritacco, E., and Manco,  G. 
(2020). A Deep Learning Approach for Detecting Security Attacks on 
Blockchain. In ITASEC (pp. 212-222). 
[25] Tanwar, S., Bhatia, Q., Patel, P., Kumari, A., Singh, P. K., and Hong, 
W. C. (2019). Machine learning  adoption  in blockchain-based  smart 
applications: The challenges,  and a way forward. IEEE Access, 8, 474 
488. 
[26] Feng, Chen, and Jianyu Niu. "Selfish mining in ethereum." In 2019 
IEEE 39th International Conference on Distributed Computing 
Systems (ICDCS), pp. 1306-1316. IEEE, 2019. 
[27] Heilman, E. (2014, March). One weird trick to stop selfish miners: 
Fresh bitcoins, a solution  for the honest  miner.  In International  
Conference on Financial  Cryptography and Data Security (pp. 161-
162). Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. 
[28] Jang, J.,  and Lee, H. N. (2020). Profitable  double-spending  attacks. 
Applied Sciences, 10(23), 8477. 
[29] Kedziora,  M., Kozlowski,  P., Szczepanik, M., and Jo´z´wiak,  P. 
(2019, September).  Analysis of blockchain  selfish mining attacks. In 
International Conference on Information Systems Architecture and 
Technology (pp. 231-240). Springer, Cham. 
[30] Saad, Muhammad,  et al. “Overview  of attack surfaces in blockchain.” 
Blockchain for distributed systems security (2019): 51-66. 
[31] Chicarino, Vanessa, et al. “On the detection of selfish mining and 
stalker attacks in blockchain  networks.” Annals  of 
Telecommunications  75.3 (2020): 143-152. 
[32] Wang,  Taotao, Soung Chang Liew,  and  Shengli  Zhang. “When 
blockchain  meets AI: Optimal  mining  strategy  achieved  by machine 
learning.” International Journal of Intelligent Systems 36.5 (2021): 
2183-2207. 
[33] Hou, Charlie, Mingxun Zhou, Yan Ji, Phil Daian, Florian Tramer, 
Giulia Fanti, and Ari Juels. "SquirRL: Automating attack analysis on 
blockchain incentive mechanisms with deep reinforcement 
learning." arXiv preprint arXiv:1912.01798 (2019).  
[34] Yang, Guoyu, Yilei Wang, Zhaojie Wang, Youliang Tian, Xiaomei Yu, 
and Shouzhe Li. "IPBSM: An optimal bribery selfish mining in the 
presence of intelligent and pure attackers." International Journal of 
Intelligent Systems 35, no. 11 (2020): 1735-1748. 
[35] Liu, Chi Harold,  Qiuxia Lin, and Shilin Wen. “Blockchain-enabled 
data collection  and sharing for industrial IoT with deep reinforcement 
learning.”  IEEE  Transactions  on Industrial  Informatics   15.6  (2018): 
3516- 3526. 
[36] Lu,  Cong,  et  al.  “Challenges and  Opportunities   in  Offline 
Reinforcement Learning from  Visual  Observations.”   arXiv  preprint 
arXiv:2206.04779 (2022). 
[37] Shi,   Laixi,  et   al.   “Pessimistic q-learning for  offline  reinforcement 
learning: Towards  optimal  sample complexity.”  arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2202.13890 (2022). 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:50:00 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.