Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games: A Case Study of Aavegotchi
Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games:
A Case Study of Aavegotchi
Yu Jiang
The Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Shenzhen
Shenzhen, China
yujiang1@link.cuhk.edu.cn
Tian Min
The Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Shenzhen
Shenzhen, China
tianmin@link.cuhk.edu.cn
Sizheng Fan
The Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Shenzhen
Shenzhen, China
sizhengfan@link.cuhk.edu.cn
Rongqi Tao
y2z Ventures
Shanghai, China
taorongqi@gmail.com
Wei Cai∗
The Chinese University of Hong
Kong, Shenzhen
Shenzhen, China
caiwei@cuhk.edu.cn
ABSTRACT
Blockchain games introduce unique gameplay and incentive mech-
anisms by allowing players to be rewarded with in-game assets
or tokens through financial activities. However, most blockchain
games are not comparable to traditional games in terms of lifes-
pan and player engagement. In this paper, we try to see the big
picture in a small way to explore and determine the impact of
gameplay and financial factors on player behavior in blockchain
games. Taking Aavegotchi as an example, we collect one year of
operation data to build player profiles. We perform an in-depth
analysis of player behavior from the macroscopic data and apply
an unsupervised clustering method to distinguish the attraction
of the gameplay and incentives. Our results reveal that the whole
game is held up by a small number of players with high-frequent
interaction or vast amounts of funds invested. Financial incentives
are indispensable for blockchain games for they provide attraction
and optional ways for players to engage with the game. However,
financial services are tightly linked to the free market. The game
will face an irreversible loss of players when the market experiences
depression. For blockchain games, well-designed gameplay should
be the fundamental basis for the long-lasting retention of players.
CCS CONCEPTS
•Human-centered computing→ Empirical studies in collab-
orative and social computing; • Applied computing → Com-
puter games.
KEYWORDS
Blockchain games, player behavior, empirical study
∗Wei Cai is the corresponding author (caiwei@cuhk.edu.cn).
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece
© 2022 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9795-7/22/09. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3555858.3555883
ACM Reference Format:
Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai. 2022. Towards
Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games: A Case Study of
Aavegotchi. In FDG ’22: Proceedings of the 17th International Conference on
the Foundations of Digital Games (FDG ’22), September 5–8, 2022, Athens,
Greece.ACM, New York, NY, USA, 12 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3555858.
3555883
1 INTRODUCTION
Blockchain game is not a new term. As early as 2017, Cryptokitties1,
one of the first blockchain games, caused a sensation upon its re-
lease, accounting for more than 10% of the total traffic on Ethereum.
However, a large number of players quickly forwent Cryptokitties
within one month. The possible reasons behind the rapid decline
in the game’s popularity include the oversupply of kitties, the re-
duction of player income, a widening gap among players, and the
limitations of the current blockchain systems [13].
Fortunately, the progress of blockchain technology and the diver-
sity of its ecosystem bring the possibility of further development of
blockchain games. The first promotion is High-performance Infras-
tructure: Sidechains and layer 2 enable credible, fast, low-cost, and
high-frequency transactions for players. For example, the transac-
tions per second (TPS) of Polygon2 is 65,000, which is 4000 times
faster than Ethereum [6]. Another promotion is A Thriving Ecosys-
tem. The boom of specific blockchain projects has dramatically
contributed to the growth of blockchain games. For example, de-
centralized exchanges (DEXs) [24] can meet players’ demand to
exchange tokens; decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs)
can lower the barrier to participating in blockchain games by pro-
viding players with training sessions and lending services of in-
game non-fungible tokens (NFTs) [11]. These factors have led to
the rise of blockchain games in 2020. According to DappRadar3, the
number of unique active wallets (UAW) connected to decentralized
applications (DApps) of games has reached 754,000, accounting for
approximately 50% of blockchain industry interactions [12]. The
proliferation of players has also triggered a creative impetus among
1https://www.cryptokitties.co
2Polygon is a decentralized Ethereum scaling platform that enables developers to build
scalable user-friendly DApps with low transaction fees without ever sacrificing on
security.
3https://dappradar.com/
https://doi.org/10.1145/3555858.3555883
https://doi.org/10.1145/3555858.3555883
https://doi.org/10.1145/3555858.3555883
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3555858.3555883&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2022-11-04
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai
developers, with the number of games on the blockchain exceeding
1,100 by the end of 2021.
Why have blockchain games achieved such massive success in a
short time? The main reason behind this is the blockchain, as an
infrastructure, provides different gameplay and ecosystem from
traditional games: 1) Diverse Ways of Participation. With the ability
for players to truly own their assets without relying on a centralized
service provider, the reusability of digital assets across games and
user-generated content offers a plethora of innovative gameplay
options. 2) Open Economy System. Blockchain games can issue their
own fungible tokens to build in-game economies, giving developers
a richer and more creative space and the possibility of connect-
ing their games with the whole ecosystem. Players can exchange
in-game tokens without hindrance for USDT, USDC, or ETH. 3)
New Incentive Mechanism. In addition to earning tokens by play-
ing the game, the player can also gain in-game rewards, including
assets and tokens by staking, which is a typical financial activity.
Specifically, this can be interpreted as financing from developers
to players, where developers use the financed cryptocurrencies to
develop better game content and give back to players with assets
or tokens as interest, which could create a better community.
However, the current blockchain games are still in a preliminary
stage. Many games have a lifespan of just a few months or even
weeks. We summarize the following open research questions to
explore the problems existing in the development of blockchain
games:
Q1. What’s the trend of player activity in blockchain games?
Q2. What attracts players to blockchain games, and why do they
leave?
Q3. What should the design of blockchain games focus on?
A straightforward way to answer these questions is to survey
how blockchain games appeal to players. However, conducting user
surveys will incur higher costs, especially on the blockchain. For
the survey results to be representative, a relatively large number of
player profiles would need to be collected. It can be challenging to
send questionnaires to eligible players by their wallet addresses or
select players who participated in certain blockchain games from
the blockchain community. At the same time, the cryptocurrency
used to pay as the rewards will entail a substantial monetary cost.
Based on these considerations, it’s wiser to extract the information
we need from open-source data.
Hence, in this paper, we select a particular blockchain game,
Aavegotchi, as the case and collect on-chain open-source data. The
rationale support behind this choice can be summarized as follows:
1) Aavegotchi is the most popular fostering game on Polygon. 2)
Aavegotchi is the first blockchain game with NFT generated by
financial asset collateral. 3) Aavegotchi has experienced a relatively
complete game life cycle from prosperity to recession. In the fol-
lowing content, we collect a year of player operation data from
Aavegotchi. Then, we perform and visualize an in-depth analysis
from the aspect of gaming and financial activities. We analyze the
number of daily active addresses, functions called by users, and den-
sity distribution to reflect the player behaviors. Besides, we apply
an unsupervised Self-Organizing Map (SOM) algorithm to divide
user groups and discuss the player behavior in different clusters.
The main contributions of this work can be summarized as follows:
• To the best of our knowledge, we are the first to quantita-
tively analyze player behavior in blockchain games from the
perspective of finance and gameplay. Through the cluster
results of players, we conclude that in-game staking can, to
a certain extent, quickly attract players in the short term but
cannot retain them in a long time.
• We point out the future direction of blockchain games. Fi-
nancial incentives can sometimes create the illusion of game
prosperity. As interest declines, players can withdraw from
the game at any time. Blockchain games should be more
cautious in utilizing the economic attributes and free market
of blockchain. Instead, they should develop innovative game-
play taking advantage of the data sharing and transparency
of the blockchain.
2 RELATEDWORK
2.1 Blockchain Technology
The blockchain has become the most disruptive technology since
it was first mentioned in the Bitcoin whitepaper [19] released by
Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008. The primitive blockchain is a distributed
ledger system of all transactions across a peer-to-peer network that
provides tamper-proof and traceable functions. With the further
development of blockchain technology, Ethereum, known as the
blockchain 2.0 platform, emerged [23]. In addition to the classic ap-
plication of distributed ledger, the smart contracts on Ethereum are
open-source programs that can be automatically executed without
any centralized control [9, 10], which allows the developers to cre-
ate decentralized applications, covering the areas such as finance,
and gaming [1, 4].
Hence, many researchers have begun to focus on the study of
DApps. Cai et al. [5] surveyed the state-of-the-art DApps to reveal
the direction of blockchain development. A study in [7] illustrated
the blockchain-driven metaverse and highlighted the representative
applications for social good. The work in [17] attempted to profile
DApp users through publicly available data and applied an unsu-
pervised clustering method to distinguish investors and players.
Moreover, some studies focus on niche areas in the gaming indus-
try. For example, Min et al. [18] delved into blockchain games and
analyzed the trends of blockchain games from a statistical approach.
The work in [14] analyzes the loot box trading market in blockchain
games from the perspective of game theory. However, blockchain
games still face many problems, such as security and economic
issues. The work in [16] analyzed the blockchain game architecture
and summarized a security overview from the perspective of the
web server and smart contract, respectively.
2.2 Behavioral Profiling
The game industry has widely adopted the evaluation and visual-
ization of player behavior. Behavioral profiling highlights behavior
patterns by condensing high-dimensional and high-volume data
into descriptions [2, 15, 22]. To explore what is behind a behav-
ioral pattern, quantitative approaches, such as deep learning, data
mining, and statistical analysis, effectively identify and analyze
patterns from players’ operation data. The paper [3] applied cluster
analysis to profile players’ behavior in Just Cause 2, an open-world
game. A study [8] researched the impact of role familiarity on team
Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games:
A Case Study of Aavegotchi FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece
performance in the Multi-player Online Battle Arena gaming en-
vironment using Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) and visualization
techniques. The work in [20] found the optimal team composition
for multiplayer online games by clustering player behavior. Most
researchers study players’ behavior in traditional games, while only
few works focuses on behavioral profiling in blockchain games.
3 INTRODUCTION TO AAVEGOTCHI
3.1 Game Rules
Aavegotchi is a simulation game (SLG) of crypto assets. Like Tam-
agotchi4 introduced the world to digital pets, Aavegotchi introduces
the world to playable NFTs, backed with a value of digitalization
and medialization. Aavegotchi (can be called Gotchi5) is a kind of
ghost in the form of a pixel living on the Polygon, whose nature is
an NFT created by ERC-721 standard6. Before raising the pixelated
ghost baby, the player must summon it via a portal. There are three
ways to acquire portals: in an auction, in a Drop Ticket activity,
and at the Baazaar (Aavegotchi’s secondary marketplace), among
which auctions and Drop Ticket activity are time-limited events. If
players missed these events, the only way left to acquire portals is
through Baazaar. Once opening a portal, players can choose 1 of 10
Gotchis to summon. This choice often depends on the value of the
Gotchi, which can be decided from intrinsic and rarity aspects.
Intrinsic Value: To claim a Gotchi from the portal, the players
need to stake the required amount of aTokens7 interest-generating
tokens from the Aave, as collaterals called Spirit Force. ATokens
generate yield via Aave’s LendingPool, which increases the number
of aTokens held in the wallet. Therefore, the number of aTokens
held in Gotchi’s escrow address will increase over time, improving
the intrinsic value of Gotchi.
Rarity Value: Upon summoning, the Gotchi will be given a
rarity score based on the initial trait, which is randomly generated,
but the scope of randomness depends on the Spirit Force. Then, the
players can improve Gotchi’s rarity value through various activities,
which can be understood as the main gameplay.
As shown in Figure 1, the game framework has pointed out sev-
eral ways to cultivate the Gotchi by improving the rarity value.
Specifically, there are three main methods to improve the rarity
score: increasing kinship, getting more experience (XP), and chang-
ing traits. Firstly, to increase the kinship, players can pet the Gotchis
every twelve hours and feed the Gotchis with kinship potions
bought from Baazaar using GHST, the native token launched by
Aavegotchi. Then, players can play mini-games with Gotchis, par-
ticipate in the voting activities held by AavegotchiDAO, and feed
XP potion to Gotchis to get more XP. Besides, the traits of the
Gotchi can be changed by equipping the wearables, which can be
acquired from the Baazaar or using Raffle Tickets.
In the process of cultivation, players can earn money. When
players participate in voting activities held by AavegotchiDAO
4Tamagotchi is the world’s first virtual pet, first released by Bandai in 1996.
5The game’s name is the same as the ghost’s name. For better presentation, Aavegotchi
stands for the name of the game, and Gotchi stands for the name of the ghost below.
6ERC-721 is a free, open standard that describes how to build non-fungible or unique
tokens on the Ethereum blockchain. Besides, ERC-721 tokens are all distinct.
7Aave is a decentralized lending protocol that allows players to earn interest on
deposits or borrow assets. When depositing money in the Aave, the player will receive
a corresponding amount of aToken, and aTokens accrues interest directly to the wallet.
Figure 1: Game Framework
and mini-games, they have the chance to be rewarded with GHST
tokens. Besides, when players raise the rarity of their Gotchis to
a higher level, they can win GHST rewards in rarity farming, a
competition organized by the project. Moreover, the Gotchi with
high rarity can also be sold at a high price in the secondary market.
3.2 In-game Token Staking
How to get drop tickets and raffle tickets? In this part, we will de-
scribe the most innovative and exciting aspect of the game. Staking
is the process of locking up cryptocurrency in exchange for rewards.
GHST can be staked to earn FRENs, the non-transferable balances
in Aavegotchi. Currently, Aavegotchi offers four types of staking:
staking GHST, staking GHST-QUICK, staking GHST-USDC, and
staking GHST-WETH. FRENs earned by players through staking
any single or a pair of the above tokens will enable them to redeem
Drop and Raffle Tickets.
3.3 The Timeline of Aavegotchi Development
Figure 2: The Timeline of Aavegotchi Development
From Figure 2, we can observe that the three staking pools, stak-
ing GHST, staking GHST-QUICK, and staking GHST-USDC, were
launched in February 2021, which were nearly onemonth before the
official release of gameplay. Since its launch, Aavegotchi has posted
many extraordinary events. In this subsection, we will present the
influential events in chronological order, shown in Figure 2. On
March 2, 2021, Aavegotchi was released and followed by a so-called
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai
bid-to-earn auction, the most distinctive event ever held by Aaveg-
otchi. A bid-to-earn auction is a typical English Auction in which the
opening bid starts low and increases as buyers bid for the item until
one buyer is willing to pay a certain amount and a higher bid isn’t
received during the given time. Every time a participant is outbid,
that person earns a payout up to a percentage of his original bid.
The bid-to-earn auctions motivate the players to keep searching
for earnings.
The bid-to-earn auction was held four times in 2021 on July
15 (1st bid-to-earn auction), August 26 (2nd bid-to-earn auction),
October 28 (3rd bid-to-earn auction) and December 2 (4th bid-to-
earn auction), each lasts for three days. The 1st bid-to-earn auction
is on a smaller scale for wearables. The 2nd bid-to-earn auction was
expanded to allow players to bid for portals as well as wearables.
When it comes to the release of Gotchiverse Realm8 project’s release,
the subsequent 3rd and 4th bid-to-earn auction were held for land
in Gotchiverse. Finally, it’s worth noting that GHST-ETH liquidity
rewards were launched on July 16, 2021.
Figure 3: Data Collection Process
4 DATA COLLECTION
4.1 Dataset
As shown in Figure 3, we obtain the open records of addresses that
have interacted with Aavegotchi’s contracts from February 2, 2021,
to February 25, 2022, with Polygonscan9. We collect over 3,241,236
transaction records for five contracts through Aavegotchi’s contract
address. By reorganizing and consolidating the records of these
contracts, we collect a record in terms of the individual addresses
with which it had interacted. At the same time, we obtain the
8Gotchiverse Realm mixes elements of real-time strategy and sandbox farming with
playable NFTs to deliver. Because Gotchiverse Realm was not fully developed at the
time of writing, we will not cover it here.
9https://polygonscan.com/
application binary interface (ABI) of the contracts from Polygon
network and use it to decode the input parameters in the records
to generate function names and parameters. After that, we merged
the records with the same address to get a complete record of user
transactions, including 31,464 independent addresses. Finally, we
map a Function Relabel Dictionary to the user records to transform
the wide range of function names into functionally categorized
labels. After normalizing and filtering out invalid transactions, we
have a time series of all function calls by the user and use it as a
preliminary material for the cluster input.
4.2 Smart Contracts
In this paper, we collect five smart contracts related to Aaveg-
otchi’s major services from its official Wiki10. The main functions
of these five smart contracts can be introduced as: Opensea (for
Aavegotchis and Wearables) Address is responsible for most
gameplay-related functions, including interacting with Gotchis,
summoning new Gotchis, using consumables, managing equip-
ment, and trading with other players. In addition, it enables players
to handle miscellaneous tasks such as downloading or updating
SVG images, generating URLs, etc. GHST Token Address is able
to record all token transaction information. stkGHST-QUICK Ad-
dress, stkGHST-USDC Address, and GHST-WETH Liquidity
Pool Address enable players to stake single token of GHST, as
well as token pairs, including GHST-QUICK, GHST-QUICK and
GHST-WETH, to obtain FRENs.
Table 1: Basic Transactions and Address Statistics for Aave-
gotchi’s Smart Contracts
Smart Contract Transaction Unique Address
Opensea 2,720,415 12,135
GHST Token 117,375 29,937
stkGHST-QUICK 396,477 15,622
stkGHST-USDC 3,920 1,419
GHST-WETH Liquidity Pool 3,049 2,311
Table 1 shows the basic transactions and address statistics for
five major smart contracts mentioned above. The data contained
31,464 individual addresses and generated a total of 3,241,236 trans-
action records. We can see that the Opensea contract, which carries
the most significant functionality, has the highest number of trans-
actions, but the number of independent addresses is less than the
GHST Token contract. This can be explained by the fact that in the
pre-publication phase of the game, most pre-purchasers involved
in GHST Token were not actually active in the real game content.
Including stkGHST-QUICK Address, stkGHST-USDC Address,
GHST-WETH Liquidity Pool Address, the contracts used to provide
staking services account for a substantial 12.45% of the total trading
volume, which shows that even as a DApp with a gaming-based
business, its financial services can still attract a significant number
of users targeting in-game rewards.
10https://wiki.aavegotchi.com/en/contracts
Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games:
A Case Study of Aavegotchi FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece
4.3 Functions
We found a total of 59 functions from the five main contracts that
had been invoked, in which the Opensea contract contains the
majority of functions, while most of the staking contracts include
only a few functions that allow users to manipulate their funds. As
depicted in Figure 4, we regrouped 59 functions into 4 categories
and created a relabel dictionary for translating function names,
which is on the principle of classifying functions by the services
they provide. The categories can be described as follows.
Gameplay contains the functions needed for the user to partici-
pate in the game itself, including summoning Gotchis and interact-
ing with it. Trade allows players to trade assets, including Gotchis,
wearables and other items. They also include support for pending
order trade and batch trade systems. Stake provides an interface
for staking and withdrawal of single coins as well as token pairs.
Misc includes functions for players to handle miscellaneous needs
such as redeeming vouchers and transferring digital assets to other
blockchain networks such as Ethereum. In addition, a number of
administrative functions used by game developers are included.
Figure 4: Function Relabel & Categories
5 METHODOLOGY
In this section, we present how we carry out feature extraction.
Then, we describe how to apply SOM, an unsupervised clustering
algorithm, to capture user groups with similar behavioral patterns.
5.1 Feature Extraction
From the description of smart contracts in Section 4.2, we can see
that the operations related to gameplay are included in the Opensea
contract, while the operations related to staking are included in
the other four contracts. Hence, we divide user operations into
interaction and staking, thenworkwith the corresponding contracts
to extract features.
For interaction data construction, we need to construct the op-
erations performed in the Opensea contract for each address and
count the times the functions were invoked. Figure 5 illustrates
the process of interaction operation data construction for address
0x014. . . c1. Firstly, we extract the function calls of each address
from the Opensea contract and rearrange them in the form of
Figure 5: The Process of Interaction Operation Extraction
time series to construct operation flow. For example, the address
0x014. . . c1 firstly called ’<Function openPortals(uint256[])>’ to open
the portals to acquire a Gotchi, then called ’<Function equipWear-
ables(uint256, uint16[16])>’ to equip a wearable with his Gotchi,
and called ’<Function interact(uint256[])>’ to pet his Gotchi, etc.
According the function labels mentioned in Figure 4, we rename
each function and abandon the labels in Misc category. Hence, the
address 0x014. . . c1 has his reconstructed flow of operations: ’Claim’,
’Interact’, ’Interact’, ... Finally, we count the number of each label
invoked by each user. After these processes, the transaction history
of address 0x014. . . c1 has been recorded as 1 ’Claim’, 3 ’Interaction’
and so on, as demonstrated in Figure 5.
Figure 6: The Staking Operation of Address 0x014. . . c1
To format the staking operation, we need to calculate theweighted
total value locked (TVL) for each address in the four staking con-
tracts. From the staking transaction log, we can locate the number
of token pairs acquired or given away by players when adjusting
liquidity based on the hash value of transactions, which was then
converted to USD at a price on the day11 the transaction was made
based on GHST price lists obtained from CoinGecko12. As shown in
Figure 6, we take the address 0x014. . . c1 as an example, usingvi and
ti to denote the value and time of the ith staking operation of an
address. This address has stakedv1 at t1, stakedv2 at t2, withdrawn
v3 at t3, ..., and staked vn at tn . We can format the value and time
sequences as [v1,v2,v3, · · · ,vn ] and [t1, t2, t3, · · · , tn ]. When the
ith of operation of the address is to withdraw the fund, vi < 0. To
further format a valid TVL sequence, we calculate how long each
fund stays in the staking pool. Hence, the TVL sequence for address
0x014. . . c1 will be [V1,V2,V3, · · · ,Vn ] with corresponding duration
list [t2 − t1, t3 − t2, · · · , tn+1 − tn ], where Vn = v1 + v2 + · · · + vn
and tn+1 represents the cut-off date for data collection (February 25,
2022). Finally, we compute the weighted average of TVL for each
address:
Weighted Average of TVL =
∑n
i=1Vi · (ti+1 − ti )
tn+1 − t1
(1)
11We have taken the price at the time of transactions made. We believe this value can
better reflect players’ decisions and behaviors and is the most feasible and persuasive
solution to make the data discrete.
12https://www.coingecko.com/
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai
5.2 Clustering
SOM [21] is an unsupervised artificial neural network that applies a
competitive learning strategy that neurons are activated under amu-
tually exclusive principle. This competition result can be achieved
by having transverse inhibitory connections (negative feedback
paths) between neurons so that neurons are forced to reorganize
themselves. A nearest neighbor function is used to maintain the
topology of the input space, which means that a two-dimensional
map containing the relative distances between data and adjacent
samples in the input space are mapped to adjacent output neurons.
Compared with the traditional clustering method, it can keep the
topological structure unchanged, and the clustering center formed
can be mapped to a surface.
Figure 7: SOM’s Architecture
As is shown in Figure 7, we use the number of interaction times
and the weighted average of TVL for each address as the input. We
traverse learning ratio and sigma that controls the competitiveness
of the neurons, finding a decent result with low quantization error
where sigma = 0.1 and learning ratio = 0.5.
6 ANALYSIS AND RESULTS
This section finds out the user activity in blockchain games, ana-
lyzes player behavior, and discusses the impact of staking mainly
after the official release of Aavegotchi from March 2, 2021, to Feb-
ruary 25, 2022. We firstly present the activity of unique players and
divide the game into five stages. Next, we analyze the functions
called by users and the density distribution of duration of inter-
action and staking behavior. Besides, we investigate two specific
users: those who only stake but do not interact and those who
only interact but do not stake. Then, we show the clustering result,
discuss the player behavior in different clusters, and obtain the
following insights: 1) Player activity in Aavegotchi is supported by
a few players with high-frequent gaming or high-volume staking. 2)
In the short-term, staking can attract a large number of players, but
cannot retain them. Well-designed gameplay should be the basis
for the long-lasting retention of players. 3) The activity of staking
is closely related to the market. As the price of GHST drops, many
players will withdraw their staking funds, resulting in a decline in
the number of players in the game.
.
6.1 The Five Stages of Aavegotchi Progress
We extracted the participation of all addresses in the game and
the marketplace and depicted the results in Figure 8. We use an
area chart (unstacked) to represent the activity of unique players
(purple) and active traders (orange). GHST price is represented by
the blue curve above. Selected special events of Aavegotchi are
marked by vertical lines with annotation in the block under the
chart. As we can see from the graph, special events significantly
impact the activity of addresses. Specifically, the number of daily
unique players fluctuating declined until (1) 2021-07-15, the 1st bid-
to-earn auction. One day after, GHST-ETH staking was released on
(2) 2021-07-16. After these two events, there has been a remarkable
increment in the number of players and the price of GHST. On (3)
2021-08-26, the 2nd bid-to-earn auction was launched for Gotchis
andwearables, leading to a peak in unique players and active traders.
After this transient peak, the numbers recovered to a steady level.
Even though the GHST price has slightly fallen, it stabilized at a
relatively high level. A similar phenomenon repeated itself at the 3rd
bid-to-earn auction for Gotchiverse land on (4) 2021-10-28: a surge
in user activity as well as the price of GHST, which gradually rose
to a record high. However, the identical incident did not happen a
third time. The 4th bid-to-earn auction for Gotchiverse land at (5)
2021-12-02 was not as effective as the previous two. Players started
to drop out of the game and the market. At the same time, the price
of GHST has gradually gone down.
Figure 8: Player Status by Time
Based onAavegotchi’s featured campaign and the activity records
of players, the game can be divided into five stages: the introduction
(Stage 1), the growth (Stage 2), the rise (Stage 3), the rush (Stage 4)
and the decline (Stage 5), and the activity records of players and
traders. Considering the publicity of the bid-to-earn events, the
number of players will increase before the events start. Therefore,
we set the splitting point of the stages three days before the event.
• The introduction stage (Stage 1) ranges from March 2,
2021, to July 11, 2021, during which the game does not hold
many events and gradually loses players.
• The growth stage (Stage 2) ranges from July 12, 2021, to
August 22, 2021, when the 1st bid-to-earn event and GHST-
WETH staking are launched. Both the gameplay and the
financial services of Aavegotchi are improved gradually.
• The rise stage (Stage 3) ranges from August 23, 2021 to
October 24, 2021. Because of the success of the previous
auction event, the auction is held once again for the Gotchis,
strengthening the core of the gameplay.
Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games:
A Case Study of Aavegotchi FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece
• The rush stage (Stage 4) ranges from October 25, 2021 to
November 28, 2021. Aavegotchi publishes the new project
of Gotchiverse and starts the lands auction, enriching the
game content and gameplay.
• The decline stage (Stage 5) ranges fromNovember 29, 2021
to February 25, 2022. Aside from the second land auction,
there are no other exceptional innovations or changes.
6.2 Analysis of Functions Called
We calculate the number of times five types of functions called:
claim, interact, trading NFT, trading item and staking.
Figure 9: Number of Each Function Called Per Day
As shown in Figure 9, each block represents a date, and the color
of the block represents the number of calls. First, we focus on the
whole picture that five types of functions have some degree of
co-occurrence. A clear example of this is around September 2021,
when there is a clear vertical highlighting band on the heat map,
representing a significant increase in the number of function calls
for all categories. This indicates the clear impact of the 2nd bid-
to-earn auction on the game activity. However, the 3rd and 4th
bid-to-earn auctions around November and December 2021, the
vertical light bands they formed on the heat map are then not that
obvious.
On March 2, 2021, the call of staking exploded to over ten thou-
sand. In the introduction stage, the number of times staking called
gradually declines. We can observe that the number of calls in-
creases during the growth stage. On the first day of the 2nd bid-
to-earn auction, there is a noticeable change in the color of the
block for staking. During the rise and rush stage, the number of
times staking called has generally remained in the thousands per
day. Nevertheless, the calls have significantly increased at the 3rd
bid-to-earn auction and the 4th bid-to-earn auction. In the decline
stage, there is a downward trend in the call of staking. For the
other four types of function, their trends in the number of calls are
similar to staking. However, it is worth mentioning that the call of
the four types of function, claim, interact, trading NFT and trading
item, grows appreciably after the 2nd bid-to-earn auction, while
the call of staking booms at the first day of the 2nd bid-to-earn
auction. That’s because the players can stake when participating
in the auction. However, players get what they bid for after the
auction, such as portals, wearables, and other items. Hence, the
calls of claim, interact, trading NFT and trading item increase after
the 2nd bid-to-earn auction. Besides, since players can pet their
Gotchis every 12 hours, interact is called significantly more often
than the other four.
Thus, from the trend of the five types of functions called, we can
see that bid-to-earn activities that enable players to make money
can only achieve short-term incentives. In other words, this money-
making activity attracts the majority of speculators, who exit the
market after a short period of profit. A few players are attracted
by the gameplay and stay in the game, continuing to interact with
Gotchis.
6.3 Analysis of Density Distribution
In this subsection, we apply kernel density estimation to analyze
the duration of interaction and staking behavior for players.
Figure 10: Logged Kernel Density Distribution of Duration
of Interaction and Staking behavior
As shown in Figure 10, we can observe that most players only
remain in the game for only one day, regardless of the interaction
or staking operation. This part of the addresses is called sideliners.
They just came in to quickly experience the game or staking ser-
vices, then left with no return. There are several reasons to explain
this phenomenon: 1) Systematic problems in gameplay design and
staking mechanism lead to irretrievable user churn. 2) Excessive
and unaffordable in-game assets discourage the entry of new play-
ers, hinder older players from keeping up with the pace of game
content development, and further lead to fragmentation among
the player community. 3) The ’inflation’ in the in-game economic
ecosystem implicitly shrinks the rewards gained from staking. After
losing the novelty, relatively unprofitable staking services struggle
to absorb more users.
Fortunately for Aavegotchi, some users still have been interact-
ing or staking for more than 100 days. The user base of Aavegotchi
varies widely, and the gameplay evaluation system applicable to
traditional hardcore gamers may not be able to fully describe the
entertainment and financial services needs of blockchain players.
But as far as the data-level findings have proven, even without user
surveys, the vast majority of users’ behavior rates the Aavegotchi
experience negatively.
6.4 Analysis of Specific Users in Stages
In this section, we analyze the behavior of two specific categories
of addresses: (1) stake-only addresses that only stake but do not
interact, and (2) interact-only addresses that only interact but do
not stake. As shown in Table 2, we count the number of addresses
in each stage, the number and proportion of the two categories
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai
Table 2: The Number and Ratio of Specific Addresses in Each Stage
Stage # Address
(Total)
Stake-only Addresses Interact-only Addresses
In the Current Stage Remain in the Next Stage In the Current Stage Remain in the Next Stage
# Address % Address # Address % Address # Address % Address # Address % Address
1 10,760 5,702 52.99% 857 15.03% 188 1.75% 39 20.74%
2 8,467 4,881 57.65% 2,146 43.97% 927 10.95% 741 79.94%
3 10,570 4,936 46.71% 1,480 29.98% 860 8.14% 555 64.53%
4 10,077 5,148 51.09% 1,897 36.85% 984 9.76% 788 80.08%
5 14,069 8,504 60.44% - - 1,190 8.46% - -
of users in each stage, and their activity data in the next stage,
respectively.
Firstly, we discuss the stake-only addresses. As shown in Table
2, stake-only addresses account for a large proportion that exceeds
over 50% in 4 out of 5 stages, which could be concluded as staking
may be a considerable effective way to encourage user engagement.
It is worth noting that the GHST-WETH staking pool is opened
to the public in the growth stage and offers more generous par-
ticipation rewards, directly attracting more newcomers, making
stake-only addresses occupy a much more significant percentage
in the growth stage than the introduction stage. In addition, stake-
only addresses account for a smaller portion in the rise stage and
rush stage. However, in the decline stage, stake-only addresses ex-
ceed 60%. This phenomenon is because, in the early stages, many
arbitrageurs in a free market have led to high prices for Gotchis
that are unaffordable so that the latecomers can only stake. We also
notice that the churn rate of this category is very high. For example,
in the introduction stage, only 15.0% of addresses remained in the
next stage. This can be explained as the staking mechanism was
not perfect until the GHST-WETH staking pool helped improve the
retention rate. On the whole, staking rewards can motivate users
to participate but cannot retain them long-term.
As for interact-only addresses, this category of addresses ac-
counts for a tiny proportion in each stage. In the introduction
stage, due to the imperfect gameplay, which is a common problem
for most blockchain games, the number and the retention rate of
interact-only addresses stay considerably low. As gameplay was
improved and innovative activities such as bid-to-earn auctions
are introduced in the upcoming stages, more players that can be
categorized in interact-only addresses are attracted. Even more, the
retention rate of this group is over 60%. Based on the behavior of
these addresses, improvement of the gameplay is clearly an effective
way to hold users over the long run, proving that for blockchain
games, having compelling gameplay is much more important than
adding financial factors.
6.5 Cluster Result
In this subsection, we apply SOM to analyze the player behavior
and summarise five clusters, named Lazy Player and Heavy Staker
(Cluster 1), Crazy Player and Middle Staker (Cluster 2), Moderate
Player and Light Staker (Cluster 3), Lazy Player and Light Staker
(Cluster 4) and Dispensable Player and Dispensable Staker (Cluster
5).
As shown in Figure 11, the descriptive data of the number of
interactions and the weighted average of TVL of the groups are
presented in the form of the boxplot.
(a) Logged Number of Interaction for Clus-
ter Result
(b) Logged Weighted Average of TVL of
Staking for Cluster Result
Figure 11: Logged Number of Interaction and Weighted Av-
erage of TVL of Staking for Cluster Result
Lazy Players and Heavy Stakers (Cluster 1) refer to the ad-
dresses that interact little with the game but heavily invest in the
staking pools, accounting for 0.50% of total addresses. From Figure
11(a), these addresses do not interact with the game frequently, and
there is even a part of them that does not interact with the game at
all. However, from Figure 11(b), these addresses have the largest
weighted average of TVL in staking pools among the five clusters,
providing a tremendous amount of liquidity that takes upmore than
half of the TVL of all. For example, the address 0x58f...98 locked
total value worth over $1,593,031 in the staking pool. The rich are
not appear to be attracted by the gameplay but rather interested in
staking in order to earn rewards quickly.
Crazy Players and Middle Stakers (Cluster 2) represent the
addresses that frequently interact with Gotchis and stake a rela-
tively large amount of capital, taking up 0.94% of all. From Figure
11(a), this group of users is the most enthusiastic of all groups to
participate in the game itself, to the extent that up to February
25, 2022, each user in this group interacted more than 1,000 times.
Moreover, about 10% of these users own more than 20 Gotchis. Be-
sides, from Figure 11(b), this group staked quite a large amount of
money with horizontal comparison. More than 80% of them staked
more than $1,000. This segment of users is more likely to be called
real players, those who have passion in Gotchis, than Cluster 1 who
are clearly motivated by profit. They bring more actual activity to
Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games:
A Case Study of Aavegotchi FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece
the game and have a reason to be actively involved in discussions
on the community and development of the game.
Moderate Players and Light Stakers (Cluster 3) are addresses
that are moderately involved in the game and staking compared
to other groups, as shown in Figure 11, which accounts for 4.48%.
These players’ activities are relatively balanced from the aspect that
they have positive interaction with Gotchi and can also provide a
certain amount of liquidity in staking. This group of users can be
considered fans of gameplay who acknowledge the exclusive design
of Aavegotchi. However, they are not able to invest a tremendous
amount of funds as Cluster 1 or leisure time as Cluster 2. They don’t
stand out statistically.
Lazy Players and Light Stakers (Cluster 4) are addresses that
do not interact frequently but provide a certain large amount of
liquidity, which take up 9.95% of total addresses. Themain difference
with Cluster 3 is that this group of users is not as keen to participate
in the game in comparison. This could be explained by the fact that
Aavegotchi’s gameplay did not appeal to this group or that their
enthusiasm for gaming itself was limited to a moderately low level
of engagement similar to Cluster 1.
Dispensable Players and Dispensable Stakers (Cluster 5) re-
fer to the addresses that lack enthusiasm for participation in neither
gameplay nor staking, which accounts for 84.12% of all. Shown in
Figure 11, the users in Cluster 5 rarely interact with the game. Ac-
cording to unlogged raw data, around 72.5% of this group did not
interact at all. Their staking amount is similarly unimpressive. If
we look at the aspect of interaction, they may fit the characteristics
of some addresses in Cluster 1, but the difference is that they are
cautiously reluctant to invest large amounts of money, motivated
by novelty, or are simply conservative in making an attempt to
invest in a project of combining game and finance. We summarize
the characteristics and motivations of this group as follows: 1) They
are users who are huge in number but cannot provide daily activity
records for Aavegotchi or provide buzz for discussion on social
media. The motivation of this part of participants should not be
interested in the game itself but more likely to be curiosity-driven.
2) They are similar to individual investors in the stock market,
holding a small amount of capital and preferring to invest limited
resources in projects with higher returns, given the volatile market
of blockchain.
Table 3: Number of Addresses for Engaged Times
Engaged Times # Address % Addresses
1 20,604 65.46%
2 4,771 15.16%
3 2,455 7.8%
4 1,895 6.02%
5 1,738 5.52%
6.6 Analysis of Clusters in Different Stages
In this section, we will discuss the difference among five clusters in
different stages in terms of the interaction and staking behavior.
6.6.1 The Distribution of Clusters by Engaged Times. From Table 3,
there are 20,604 addresses, which account for over 50% of all, that
only participate in a single stage. Very few addresses went through
the whole process. The game design of Aavegotchi is at issue in
general.
Figure 12: LoggedDistribution ofClusters by EngagedTimes
We plot the distribution of address numbers in clusters by the
count of stages they engaged in Figure 12. The result shows that
addresses in most clusters are quite evenly distributed across the
number of stages experienced, but those clusters with more inter-
actions, such as Cluster 2 and Cluster 3, have a higher proportion
of more than 50% addresses that experienced all five stages. The
durability of user engagement is positively related to the level of in-
teraction. Compared to Cluster 3, Cluster 2 has more staking, which
could be the reason behind it having more distribution in terms of
fully engaged addresses. This fact may indicate that participating
in both gaming and staking has a positive effect on user retention.
Figure 13: Ratio of Address Engaged in Stages by Clusters
6.6.2 Ratio of Address Engaged in Stages by Clusters. Figure 13
shows the percentage of addresses of different clusters participating
in different stages to the number of addresses in the corresponding
cluster. New-comers from Lazy Players and Heavy Stakers (Cluster
1) kept flowing in until Stage 5, in which the largest increment
happened in Stage 2, recalling that the GHST-WETH staking pool
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai
Table 4: The Participation and Quit of Clusters in Interaction by Stages
Cluster
Label
# Total
Addresses
# Addresses First Enter to the Aavegotchi # Full Participation
Addresses
# Return
AddressesStage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 Stage 5
1 131 60 28 16 17 10 28 19
2 261 241 12 5 2 1 211 7
3 1,371 988 118 200 38 27 750 89
4 2,665 1,658 416 854 373 364 396 491
5 6,706 2,105 1,032 1,500 888 1,181 11 445
with high rewards was released at that time. However, in Stage 5, the
rewards from the staking decreased as the TVL in the pool increased,
causing withdrawal from staking. Crazy Players and Middle Stakers
(Cluster 2) and Moderate Players and Light Stakers (Cluster 3) are
similar. They maintain a high percentage of addresses historically
recorded engaged in all stages. The number of two clusters increases
significantly in Stage 3 because the 1st bid-to-earn auction was held.
6.6.3 The Interaction of Clusters by Stages. In this part, we will ana-
lyze the participation and quit of clusters by stages from interaction.
Table 4 shows the number of addresses that join the Aavegotchi for
game interaction by stages.
Judging from the number of participants in Stage 1, we found
a remarkable preemptive advantage. If we focus on the groups of
users who contribute the most to the game and stay involved the
longest, the majority of Cluster 2 and Cluster 3 joined since the
early days of the game. They can purchase assets at a lower price
and have a more significant advantage over the latecomers as the
game develops with a rising asset price: the pioneers never lose
money. This advantage allows the pioneers to continuously invest
resources, including time and money, at a lower risk and transforms
into a strong competitive power in the NFT market, crowding out
the ability of latecomers to purchase and participate. Above all,
they could face asset inflation at a later stage comfortably.
However, for the marginal Cluster 4 and Cluster 5, although a con-
siderable portion of their users also belongs to the pioneers, it seems
that they are not active enough to participate in neither gameplay
nor staking from the statistical findings of Figure 11. Throughout
the development of the game, later campaigns and game policies,
such as Stage 2 and Stage 3, have much more attractive and mo-
tivating effects on the marginal groups than Cluster 2 and Cluster
3, which indicates that the urgent needs for blockchain games
should revolve around how to convert the light users attracted into
long-term users without harming the pioneers’ interests. This may
require 1) a more reasonable token distribution model, 2) a planned
regulation policy for the NFT market, 3) adequate benefits and pro-
tection zones for new users, 3) the improvement of distribution in
the value of Gotchis, and lowering the threshold for acquisition and
cultivation so that Aavegotchi can run into a long-term business
with better gameplay.
6.6.4 The Staking of Clusters by Stages. Figure 14 recorded the
average TVL of each cluster in curves, with their TVL distribution
shown in the form of a violin graph. The stage increases along the
x-axis, and the number from 1 to 5 above each stage represents the
label of the corresponding cluster.
Intuitively, the TVL of the clusters differs significantly in value.
Still, in terms of distribution, except for Cluster 1 which contains a
relatively small number of addresses, the distribution of the other
clusters is concentrated around a low TVL value with a long tail.
Regardless of the stage, Cluster 1 distinctly dominates the total TVL
supply of the game, while the difference between Cluster 3, 4, 5 is
not as noticeable.
From a cross-sectional view, we can find that at Stage 5, a signif-
icant drop in all clusters occurred. We attribute this phenomenon
to the impact of the overall market on user decisions. Recalling the
stage division in Figure 8, Stage 5 refers to the period from the end
of November 2020 to the present. During this period, the price of
Ether, which is a sign of the blockchain market, fell 45%. Meanwhile,
statistics about Aavegotchi show a gradual decline in the number
of active addresses and GHST prices. Users naturally turn funds
in financial products into stable assets to hedge risks when facing
market shocks. This indicates that when blockchain games are try-
ing to build up an in-game financial system connected to the whole
blockchain market to enjoy greater potential benefits, they also
face a considerable risk of embracing impacts. From Aavegotchi,
the decrease in daily active users is perhaps the most unacceptable
for a game. Whether in-game financial systems should be linked to
the free market should be one of the most critical topics for game
researchers when studying blockchain games.
After five stages, the opening of a new staking pool, the introduc-
tion of game events and auctions, will Aavegotchi’s efforts result in
more users participating in staking? If we look at Cluster 5, which
has the most significant number of users and is the most represen-
tative in percentage, the answer is No. In terms of distribution, the
layout of Cluster 5 is gradually concentrated to 0 over time, which
means that most users are less willing to participate in staking as
the game activity progresses. In their case, a simple lack of available
funds cannot be used as a reason for not participating in staking.
They have the freedom of choice, and the reward of staking offered
by Aavegotchi may not be competitive in terms of risk and rate
of return compared to financial services provided by other orga-
nizations, which is even more so for latecomers who missed the
preemptive advantage.
In general, the beautiful ideas of setting up an in-game financial
system linked to the market, financing the players in a staking
way to facilitate the development of the game to form a positive
feedback loop do not achieve the goals they were designed for.
Only a tiny number of preemptive users and large asset holders
can be the beneficiaries of such activities. In contrast, most users
are players who are gradually disappointed.
Towards Understanding Player Behavior in Blockchain Games:
A Case Study of Aavegotchi FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece
Figure 14: TVL Distribution of Clusters by Stages
7 DISCUSSION
In the following section, we discuss our findings and attempt to
answer three research questions previously proposed in Section 1.
Q1. What’s the trend of player activity in
blockchain games?
We define the two types of operation for players: interaction be-
havior and staking behavior.
Regarding interaction behavior, players are usually more active
in the early stages of a game. The reason is that the price of the token
and NFT is relatively low at the beginning of the game with low
barriers to entry, which is acceptable for many players to interact
with the game. The prices of both the token and NFT increase as the
game develops. The number of players who are willing to interact
with the game does not increase as the popularity of the game
because most of them are blocked by affordable assets price.
Staking behavior is similar to interaction behavior in the early
stages. That’s because the player who stakes early can receive more
rewards. The rewards for staking decrease after more players join
the staking, and therefore the activity level decline since it’s less
profitable. The activity level of staking behavior is also positively
affected by new staking mechanisms, for example, new staking
pools. The players will be attracted by the high rewards of the new
pool at the beginning.
Q2. What attracts players to blockchain games,
and why do they leave?
Well-designed gameplay will attract users and retain them. More-
over, users who like the gameplay design can stay in the game for
a long time without leaving.
Financial services can, to some extent, be attractive to players.
From the data of Aavegotchi, we can see that about 50% of users
only stake but do not interact with the game, which reflects that
most users are motivated by financial activities. In the blockchain
world, there is a large gap between the number of assets users
hold. Those with abundant assets can stake a large amount of
capital to earn considerable rewards in a short time. For those with
insufficient funds, staking provides a lower threshold than the NFT
market. They can stake any amount of capital into the pools to
earn rewards rather than buying expensive NFT to participate in
the game. However, as we mentioned in the analysis section, the
appeal of staking to the vast majority of general users is limited
in the long run, and staking does not significantly impact game
engagement. With the gradual decline of the staking rewards, the
number of participants reduced considerably to burst the illusion
of the early prosperity of the game, and the bursting of the bubble
may lead to more serious adverse effects, such as NFT and other
assets that linked to the game may face a substantial devaluation
for losing demand. This devaluation is usually irreversible and will
further lead to the collapse of the in-game economic system.
Besides, some special events or mechanisms that allow players
to make money will also attract players to enter. A large proportion
of these players are speculators who see lucrative activities. If there
are no lasting benefits to attract this group of speculators, they will
soon leave the game.
Q3. What should the design of blockchain games
focus on?
Blockchain games should be cautious about the in-game economic
system and carefully consider to what extent it should connect
to the overall blockchain market. At the same time, the need for
better gameplay development should take precedence over the
construction of financial services.
Gameplay is the key to user retention. Even though blockchain
itself has an inseparable financial factor, as a blockchain game, we
should not forget its essence as a game. However, many blockchain
games currently on the market abuse the publicity gimmick of
"To Earn" and ignore the importance of gameplay, which creates
FDG ’22, September 5–8, 2022, Athens, Greece Yu Jiang, Tian Min, Sizheng Fan, Rongqi Tao, and Wei Cai
a negative atmosphere of fast-paced and impetuousness for both
developers and users.
Setting a reasonable and long-lasting in-game economic system
is already a task that requires a lot of skill and experience to bal-
ance the numerical setting from player’s income to asset’s price.
However, most small-volume blockchain games try to operate an
in-game market that directly interfaces with the huge blockchain
market, which by implication is the real-world currency, without
the capability of controlling a decent in-game value design. The
prevailing overprices and plunges in the blockchain market have
led to extremely volatile asset prices, and these are the very reasons
why users are pulling out of assets and thus losing interest.
Financial services offered by the blockchain games are similar to
a coin with two sides. Positively, staking has a lower threshold than
NFT trading, allowing users with a small amount of money to earn
in-game rewards. In addition, staking can be considered attractive
to new users in the short term. On the negative side, staking is not
a sustainable solution. As time goes on, the yield decreases, and the
churn rate continues to grow.
In brief, blockchain needs a phenomenal game that implicitly
incorporates the economic and financial features of blockchain and
rivals traditional games in terms of gameplay in order to rebrand
a decent reputation. As for the in-game economic and financial
system, developers should optimize the token issuance model and
carefully control the degree of its connection with the blockchain
free market or, in the context of a free market, how to figure out a
way to effectively stabilize the prices of game-related assets, give
more space to light players, and avoid blockchain games from
becoming entertainment for minority elites, which is essential to
the further realization of Metaverse.
8 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we attempt to identify the user activity level of
blockchain games and the impact of financial activities. We choose
Aavegotchi as a case and collect all addresses from February 2, 2021,
to February 25, 2022. After extracting the feature from two aspects,
interaction and staking, we use SOM to compare player behaviors
in different stages. We then visualized and analyzed the player pro-
file and cluster result. We observe that player activity is not high in
either gameplay or financial activities. Very few users provide most
of the activity for financial activities. Similarly, a small percentage
of players interact with the game frequently, and more than half are
dispensable. Besides, we conclude that financial activities are indis-
pensable for blockchain games and play a unique role in attracting
players and providing a way for players to engage with the game.
However, financial incentives tend to create the illusion of a boom
in game players. Once the market fades, players will drop out of the
game. Finally, blockchain games cannot ignore the improvement of
gameplay, which is crucial to the long-term retention of players.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by Shenzhen Science and Technology
Program (Grant No. JCYJ20210324124205016), in part by y2z Ven-
tures.
REFERENCES
[1] a16z. 2021. The web3 Landscape. URL: https://a16z.com/wp-
content/uploads/2021/10/The-web3-Readlng-List.pdf (2021).
[2] Sabbir Ahmad, Andy Bryant, Erica Kleinman, Zhaoqing Teng, Truong-Huy D
Nguyen, and Magy Seif El-Nasr. 2019. Modeling individual and team behavior
through spatio-temporal analysis. In Proceedings of the Annual Symposium on
Computer-Human Interaction in Play. 601–612.
[3] Myat Aung, Simon Demediuk, Yuan Sun, Ye Tu, Yu Ang, Siva Nekkanti, Shantanu
Raghav, Diego Klabjan, Rafet Sifa, and Anders Drachen. 2019. The trails of Just
Cause 2: spatio-temporal player profiling in open-world games. In Proceedings of
the 14th International Conference on the Foundations of Digital Games. 1–11.
[4] W. Cai, Z. Wang, J. B. Ernst, Z. Hong, C. Feng, and V. C. M. Leung. 2018. Decen-
tralized Applications: The Blockchain-Empowered Software System. IEEE Access
6 (2018), 53019–53033. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2870644
[5] Wei Cai, Zehua Wang, Jason B. Ernst, Zhen Hong, Chen Feng, and Victor C. M.
Leung. 2018. Decentralized Applications: The Blockchain-Empowered Software
System. IEEE Access 6 (17 September 2018), 53019–53033. https://doi.org/10.
1109/ACCESS.2018.2870644
[6] Mihai Christodorescu, Erin English, Wanyun Catherine Gu, David Kreissman,
Ranjit Kumaresan, Mohsen Minaei, Srinivasan Raghuraman, Cuy Sheffield, Ar-
juna Wijeyekoon, and Mahdi Zamani. 2021. Universal Payment Channels: An
Interoperability Platform for Digital Currencies. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.12194
(2021).
[7] Haihan Duan, Jiaye Li, Sizheng Fan, Zhonghao Lin, Xiao Wu, and Wei Cai. 2021.
Metaverse for social good: A university campus prototype. In Proceedings of the
29th ACM International Conference on Multimedia. 153–161.
[8] Joshua A Eaton, David J Mendonça, and Matthew-Donald D Sangster. 2018.
Attack, Damage and Carry: Role Familiarity and Team Performance in League
of Legends. In Proceedings of the Human Factors and Ergonomics Society Annual
Meeting, Vol. 62. SAGE Publications Sage CA: Los Angeles, CA, 130–134.
[9] Sizheng Fan, Hongbo Zhang, Zehua Wang, and Wei Cai. 2022. Mobile Devices
Strategies in Blockchain-based Federated Learning: A Dynamic Game Perspective.
IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering (2022).
[10] S. Fan, H. Zhang, Y. Zeng, and W. Cai. 2021. Hybrid Blockchain-Based Resource
Trading System for Federated Learning in Edge Computing. IEEE Internet of
Things Journal 8, 4 (2021), 2252–2264. https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.3028101
[11] Lewis Gudgeon, SamWerner, Daniel Perez, and William J Knottenbelt. 2020. Defi
protocols for loanable funds: Interest rates, liquidity and market efficiency. In
Proceedings of the 2nd ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies.
92–112.
[12] Pedro Herrera. 2021. BGA Blockchain Game Report Q3 2021. URL:
https://dappradar.com/blog/bga-blockchain-game-report-q3-2021 (2021).
[13] Xin-Jian Jiang and Xiao Fan Liu. 2021. Cryptokitties transaction network analysis:
The rise and fall of the first blockchain game mania. Frontiers in Physics 9 (2021),
57.
[14] Yu Jiang, Sizheng Fan, and Wei Cai. 2022. Economic Analysis of Loot Box Market
in Blockchain Games. In Proceedings of the Fourth ACM International Symposium
on Blockchain and Secure Critical Infrastructure. 35–46.
[15] Erica Kleinman, Sabbir Ahmad, Zhaoqing Teng, Andy Bryant, Truong-Huy D
Nguyen, Casper Harteveld, and Magy Seif El-Nasr. 2020. ” And then they died”:
Using Action Sequences for Data Driven, Context Aware Gameplay Analysis. In
International Conference on the Foundations of Digital Games. 1–12.
[16] Tian Min and Wei Cai. 2019. A Security Case Study for Blockchain Games. In
2019 IEEE Games, Entertainment, Media Conference (GEM). 1–8. https://doi.org/
10.1109/GEM.2019.8811555
[17] Tian Min and Wei Cai. 2022. Portrait of decentralized application users: an
overview based on large-scale Ethereum data. CCF Transactions on Pervasive
Computing and Interaction (2022), 1–18.
[18] T. Min, H. Wang, Y. Guo, and W. Cai. 2019. Blockchain Games: A Survey. In 2019
IEEE Conference on Games (CoG). 1–8. https://doi.org/10.1109/CIG.2019.8848111
[19] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin whitepaper. URL: https://bitcoin. org/bitcoin.
pdf-(: 17.07. 2019) (2008).
[20] Hao Yi Ong, Sunil Deolalikar, and Mark Peng. 2015. Player behavior and optimal
team composition for online multiplayer games. arXiv preprint arXiv:1503.02230
(2015).
[21] Juha Vesanto and Esa Alhoniemi. 2000. Clustering of the self-organizing map.
IEEE Transactions on neural networks 11, 3 (2000), 586–600.
[22] Helen Wauck, Brian S Woodard, Ziang Xiao, Tiffany Wenting Li, and Brian P
Bailey. 2020. A Data-Driven, Player-Centric Approach to Evaluating Spatial Skill
Training Games. In Proceedings of the Annual Symposium on Computer-Human
Interaction in Play. 349–361.
[23] GavinWood et al. 2014. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger. Ethereum project yellow paper 151, 2014 (2014), 1–32.
[24] Hongbo Zhang, Sizheng Fan, Zhixuan Fang, and Wei Cai. 2022. Economic Analy-
sis of Decentralized ExchangeMarket with Transaction FeeMining. In Proceedings
of the Fourth ACM International Symposium on Blockchain and Secure Critical
Infrastructure. 59–70.
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2870644
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2870644
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2870644
https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.3028101
https://doi.org/10.1109/GEM.2019.8811555
https://doi.org/10.1109/GEM.2019.8811555
https://doi.org/10.1109/CIG.2019.8848111
	Abstract
	1 Introduction
	2 Related Work
	2.1 Blockchain Technology
	2.2 Behavioral Profiling
	3 Introduction to Aavegotchi
	3.1 Game Rules
	3.2 In-game Token Staking
	3.3 The Timeline of Aavegotchi Development
	4 Data Collection
	4.1 Dataset
	4.2 Smart Contracts
	4.3 Functions
	5 Methodology
	5.1 Feature Extraction
	5.2 Clustering
	6 Analysis and Results
	6.1 The Five Stages of Aavegotchi Progress
	6.2 Analysis of Functions Called
	6.3 Analysis of Density Distribution
	6.4 Analysis of Specific Users in Stages
	6.5 Cluster Result
	6.6 Analysis of Clusters in Different Stages
	6.6.1 The Distribution of Clusters by Engaged Times
	6.6.2 Ratio of Address Engaged in Stages by Clusters
	6.6.3 The Interaction of Clusters by Stages
	6.6.4 The Staking of Clusters by Stages
	7 Discussion
	8 Conclusion
	Acknowledgments
	References