iVOLUNTEER — A Digital Ecosystem for Life-long Volunteering
iVOLUNTEER — A Digital Ecosystem for Life-long Volunteering∗
Elisabeth Kapsammer, Eugen Kimmerstorfer,
Birgit Pröll, Werner Retschitzegger, and
Wieland Schwinger
Johannes Kepler University, Linz
firstname.lastname@cis.jku.at
Johannes Schönböck
Upper Austrian University of Applied Sciences
Hagenberg, Austria
johannes.schoenboeck@fh-hagenberg.at
Nikolaus Dürk
X-Net Services GmbH, Linz
nd@x-net.at
Gustavo Rossi, Silvia Gordillo
National University of La Plata
firstname@lifia.info.unlp.edu.ar
ABSTRACT
Volunteering is an indispensable cornerstone of our society, cov-
ering nearly every part of our life, from social care to emergency
management and education. This omnipresence of volunteering
led to a plethora of volunteer management systems (VMS), mainly
supporting NPOs in scheduling and allocating tasks to volunteers.
In contrast to this NPO-centric approach of existing VMS, we focus
on volunteers by investigating the following core question: “How
can the engagement of volunteers be digitized and exploited in a
life-long way”. To provide a first step towards answering this ques-
tion, the contribution of this paper is threefold. First, an in-depth
study of related approaches is provided identifying shortcomings
but also promising concepts. Second, challenges which have to be
tackled to deal with the broad spectrum and peculiarities of vol-
unteering are identified and a vision for a next-generation VMS
called iVolunteer is pointed out. Third, promising technologies are
identified and discussed in detail to lay the basis for the technical
architecture of our envisioned iVolunteer-prototype.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Information systems → Collaborative and social computing
systems and tools;
KEYWORDS
Volunteer Management, Blockchain-Technology, NoSQL-DB, Gam-
ification, Semantic Technologies, Recommender Systems
ACM Reference Format:
Elisabeth Kapsammer, Eugen Kimmerstorfer, Birgit Pröll, Werner Rets-
chitzegger, and Wieland Schwinger, Johannes Schönböck, Nikolaus Dürk,
∗This work is supported by the Austrian Research Promotion Agency (FFG) under
grant FFG COIN 845947 and OeAD AR10/2015.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria
© 2017 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to Associa-
tion for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-5299-4/17/12. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3151759.3151801
and Gustavo Rossi, Silvia Gordillo. 2017. iVOLUNTEER — A Digital Ecosys-
tem for Life-long Volunteering. In iiWAS ’17: The 19th International Con-
ference on Information Integration and Web-based Applications & Services,
December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 7 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3151759.3151801
1 INTRODUCTION
Indispensable and Omnipresent Volunteering. In times of re-
fugee and health-care crisis, volunteering is becoming more and
more an indispensable cornerstone of our society, covering nearly
every part of our life, from social care and emergency management
to education, sports, politics, religion, environment and cultural
activities. More than 10% of the world’s population is already vol-
unteering, topped by 23% in the EU, 25% in the US, 36% in Australia
and even more than 46% in Austria [50].
Fundamental Changes in Volunteering. The current world-
wide growth of both, volunteering demand and supply is inter-
twined with a fundamental structural change in the whole vol-
unteering sector. While in the past, formal and long-term volun-
teering organized by NPOs was prevalent, an enormous variety of
new forms of volunteering emerged recently, often informal, i.e.,
organization-independent, and virtual, i.e., done by digital natives.
The spectrum of this new volunteering generation stretches from (i)
Patchwork Volunteers, being engaged in different NPOs (e.g., from
pathfinders to senior-citizens neighbourhood-assistance) during
different phases of life, to (ii) Engagement Hoppers, getting active in
an ad-hoc way depending on own availability and actual demand
(e.g., refugee aid or disaster relief), and finally to (iii) Crowd Volun-
teers, performing online micro tasks (e.g., postings in online-forums
or open-source development). In several countries such as in Aus-
tria, these new forms of mostly informal volunteering have even
exceeded the amount of formal volunteering [46].
Insufficient IT-Support. As emphasized in the “UN Worlds
Volunteerism Report 2015” [50], in face of these current massive
developments in volunteering, adequate IT-support for the conse-
quent exploitation of the potential of volunteering is not only of
paramount importance from an economic point of view, but lies
also in the very own interest of NPOs, help seekers and volun-
teers themselves. However, current approaches rarely consider the
specific interests of a volunteer but focus on the NPOs only.
Aim and Structure of this Paper. Consequently, this paper is
trying to approach the challenges induced by the current develop-
ments in the volunteering sector from a different point of view. The
https://doi.org/10.1145/3151759.3151801
https://doi.org/10.1145/3151759.3151801
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3151759.3151801&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2017-12-04
iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria Kapsammer et al.
Table 1: Comparison of Existing VMS
iVolunteer FOOTPRINT iVolunteer MARKETPLACE iVolunteer ENCOURAGEMENT
Trust Competency Derivation Recommendation Brokerage Incentives Evolution
Movements
movements.org
   n.a.  
BeWorthwhile
beworthwhile.me   ✓
semantic matching
(competencies, 
location, time)
  
Samaritan
samaritan.com  ~ reviews ✓ semantic matching   
Volgistics
volgistics.com   ~ syntactic filtering  ~ awards 
Volunteer Impact
betterimpact.com   ~ syntactic filtering   
VolunteerHub
volunteerhub.com  ~ reminder for
outdated profiles  n.a.  
VolunteerMatch
volunteermatch.org   ~ syntactic filtering
(location, keyword)   
Volunteer Matters
volunteeringmatters.org.uk   ~ syntactic filtering   
YourVolunteers
yourvolunteers.com   ~ syntactic filtering
(time, interests)   
linkedIn
linkedin.com   ~ syntactic filtering   
Involver
involver.com   ✓ semantic matching
(preferences)  ✓
pers. „karma“, 
rewards, statistics, 
fotos sharing

GiveGab
givegab.com  ~ reviews ✓
semantic matching
(competencies, 
interests)
 ✓ awards, challenges, 
social sharing 
Zeall
zeall.us  ~ reviews
reports ✓ semantic matching
(missions)  ~ awards ~ missions
O
rg
an
is
at
io
n
C
E
N
T
E
R
E
D
O
rg
an
is
at
io
n
IN
D
E
P
E
N
D
E
N
T
plethora of existing, commercial volunteer management systems
(VMS) predominantly support NPOs in scheduling and allocating
diverse tasks to volunteers and provide communication and coor-
dination mechanisms for collaboration and cooperation [54]. In
contrast to this NPO-centric view, however, we put the volunteer in
the middle of concern by investigating the following core question:
“How can the engagement of each volunteer be digitized and ex-
ploited in a life-long way”. In order to provide a first step towards
answering this question, Section 2 investigates in-depth on related
approaches and identifies the challenges which have to be tackled
to deal with the broad spectrum and peculiarities of volunteering.
In Section 3 the vision of a next-generation VMS called iVolunteer
is presented. The architecture for our envisioned digital eco-system
is presented in Section 4, together with a discussion of the tech-
nologies and mechanisms which should be employed. Section 5
concludes the paper with a brief summary.
2 RELATEDWORK
In order to derive requirements for the envisioned iVolunteerVMS
the state of the art is discussed in detail in the following. Not least
because of the world-wide omnipresence of volunteering, a plethora
of mostly commercial systems is already available, from simple
messaging hubs to full-fledged VMS supporting different phases of
volunteering. Based on our in-depth evaluation of the state of the
art on basis of a reference model for VMS comprising more than
100 evaluation criteria in [45], VMS can be roughly categorized into
majority of “organisation-centric systems” focusing on volunteering
support within NPOs and a few “organisation-independent systems”
targeting especially the area of informal volunteering.
In Table 1, thirteen VMS falling into these two categories are
evaluated. The rationale behind the selection of these systems was
influenced by several factors, comprising among others (i) the com-
prehensiveness of the functionality provided being as closely related
to iVolunteer as possible (especially the organisation-independent
category), (ii) not only long-term players like Samaritan but also
new innovative start-up systems like GiveGab or Zeall and finally
(iii) also non-dedicated VMS like LinkedIn. Additionally, all of them
are web-based or provide (in addition) a mobile front-end and have
been empirically evaluated as most used systems. The criteria cho-
sen for evaluation focus on the volunteer perspective. In this respect,
volunteers want to get information about their digital volunteer
footprint, e.g., which tasks have been fulfilled for which NPO. In
order to support the volunteer to find the best matching tasks, a vol-
unteer marketplace should provide according recommendations and
means for brokerage. Finally, to motivate a lifelong volunteering,
means for encouragement should be included in a VMS.
Table 2: Three Core Deficiencies of Existing VMS
• data stored centrally and proprietary
 Lack of exploitation across the borders 
of IT-systems & organizations
• data gathered just once in a manual fashion
 no automated, continuous evolution 
based on accomplished tasks
• semi-automatic on basis of simple filter criteria
 no automatic recommendations based on 
competencies or social relationships
• no proper balance between adequacy and 
privacy
missing brokerage across NPOs
• incentives for volunteers short-lived
 no long-term or sustainable encouragements
• present-oriented
 lack of mechanisms for personal carrier
development through volunteer work
Data Islands Recommendation Weakness Encouragement Deficits
iVOLUNTEER — A Digital Ecosystem for Life-long Volunteering iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria
The findings concerning the evaluated systems are discussed in
the following and are summarized in Table 2.
Data-Islands. Existing VMS are foremost walled, static data-
islands since they are designed as black-boxes which can not be
exploited across the NPOs borders in a trustworthy and confident
way. Additionally, organization-centered approaches focus on the
coordination of formal volunteering and do not cope with the need
for incorporating also informal volunteers. For example, a volunteer
has to state his personal data and competencies to every NPO she
is engaged in. Finally, competencies are static in the way that the
volunteer’s qualifications are not automatically and continuously
actualized on basis of volunteering activities.
RecommendationWeakness.The aforementioned data-islands
additionally hamper the provision of intelligent recommendation-
and brokering facilities across NPOs and prevent to achieve a proper
balance between recommendation adequacy and privacy on the
one hand and pre-conditions at demand-side and supply-side on
the other hand. In this respect, current systems often only provide
semi-automatic means for filtering task lists but miss more sophisti-
cated means, e.g., matching on basis of a volunteer’s competencies
and a task’s requirements or on basis of social relationships.
Encouragement Deficits. Existing VMS suffer from fundamen-
tal encouragement deficits since there are neither mechanisms for
the preservation or acceleration of volunteering engagement nor
support for the achievement of future personal development goals
of volunteers, i.e., there are no means available for long-term en-
couragements or personal carrier developments of volunteers.
3 CHALLENGES AND VISION
Starting out from these three core deficiencies, several questions
and challenges can be identified which should be addressed in next-
generation IT-support for volunteering as illustrated in Figure 1, all
of them focusing on the central metaphor “I am what I do” and the
resulting core question “How can the engagement of each volun-
teer be digitized and exploited in a life-long way”. Our envisioned
system called iVolunteer constitutes a first step towards finding
answers to the questions and challenges by putting forward a digi-
tal ecosystem, i e., a system bringing together various technologies
in order to put volunteers in the middle of concern and to facilitate
lifelong volunteering. Thereby, the system focuses three core goals
(cf. Figure 2) in order to tackle the aforementioned deficiencies and
to take a first step towards fulfilling the challenges.
iVolunteerFootPrint. First and foremost, volunteers should
be empowered to automatically track their volunteering activities
in terms of an individual “digital volunteering pass” also called
iVolunteer FootPrint. In order to respect a volunteer’s sovereignty
over his/her data, especially on competencies acquired during for-
mal and informal volunteering activities, the confident storage of
these qualifications in a decentralized, local repository is indispens-
able. However, this raises the question how to ensure traceabil-
ity and immutability of volunteer work across NPOs? In order to
achieve this, blockchain technology-based storage mechanisms are
envisioned. To get from a static user profile to a more dynamic one,
new competencies, which are achieved due to volunteering work,
sould be automatically derived by means of (semantic) profiling
mechanisms. To allow the external exploitation of these qualifica-
tion, e.g., at the labour market or at the educational sector, adequate
task-competency ontologies should be employed.
iVolunteer MarketPlace. Second, on basis of the explicit
and permanently actualized knowledge about the volunteers’ qual-
ifications, an optimal coordination between demand and supply for
volunteering should be enabled, thus realizing an open iVolunteer
MarketPlace. This should be, in principal, independent of certain
NPOs, thus also incorporating informal volunteers and help seeking
people directly, but nevertheless by giving NPO’s the possibility to
take part as well. In order to coordinate offers and needs between
NPOs and volunteers, adequate recommendations and sustainable
Figure 1: Core Challenges and Envisioned Solutions
iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria Kapsammer et al.
VMS
VMS
VMS
Figure 2: Vision and Goals of iVolunteer
commitments need to be achieved. Recommender technologies
using semantic-based similarity computations and brokering tech-
nologies, e.g., in terms of Blockchain Smart Contracts should be
used for realizing this goal.
iVolunteer Encouragement. Third, again on basis of the
volunteer’s explicitly stored qualifications, a generic encourage-
ment system is envisioned allowing a sustainable, long-term mo-
tivation of volunteers, called iVolunteer Encouragement. In
order to minimize entry barriers and to maximize life-long engage-
ment, gamification mechanisms seem to be a promising approach.
Additionally, situation-evolution models allowing a goal-oriented
volunteer task recommendation and allocation are foreseen for
supporting the personal development of volunteers.
4 ARCHITECTURE AND IMPLEMENTATION
ISSUES
The envisioned approach is discussed in the following along the
three goals of iVolunteer. The overall system architecture is de-
picted in Figure 3, separating the system components in a Trust
Layer, a Semantic Layer, an Encouragement Layer and a Market
Layer. These different components will be discussed successively
in the respective subsections.
4.1 Trust-guaranteed Persistence
Blockchains andNoSQL-DBs asTrust- andPersistency-Layer.
Since iVolunteer intends to persist volunteering activities, assess-
ments and acquired qualifications (i.e., skills and competencies) as
so-called digital footprints, it is essential to ensure trustworthiness
in terms of immutability and accountability on the one hand and
to guarantee confidence in terms of utterly data sovereignty of the
volunteers themselves on the other hand. As backbone technol-
ogy we envision to employ blockchains [54], which are based on
asymmetric cryptography and P2P-computing, being already om-
nipresent not only in the finance sector (e.g., BitCoin transactions)
but also in health care (e.g., Trusted Medical Reporting), education
(e.g., decentralized management of course certificates) or indus-
try 4.0 (e.g., Blockchain-powered Supply-Chain-Management) [37],
thus turning the Social Web into a Trusted Web, allowing to persist
arbitrary digital assets in a decentralized but fully trustworthy way.
Footprints represent digital assets, no matter if they were manu-
ally registered through volunteers themselves, NPOs or help seekers
or if they were derived on basis of semi-automatic profilers (cf. be-
low) or imported by means of appropriate adapters (cf. our work in
[23, 51]) from social networks like linkedIn or stackoverflow.com
(e.g. micro-tasks). In order to ensure trustworthiness, the footprints
are persisted within a “personal” repository which is exclusive to
the volunteers themselves (e.g., locally, on a private NAS). Each
entry is additionally persisted within a distributed blockchain (cf.
Trustifier in Figure 3) in form of an encrypted hash-value (e.g.,
on basis of ECDSA [21]) only, thus adhering to a “lightweight”
blockchain approach. Entries are additionally digitally signed (e.g.,
by means of SHA-256 [40]) using the private keys of the originator
and the receiver.
Resembling the common procedure in existing blockchain-based
applications, the entries are assembled to blocks and get inextrica-
bly linked with each other by means of a hash-function to achieve
trustworthiness – manipulation impossible, authentication possible
anytime (cf. Authentifier in Figure 3). For this, a P2P-network
[48] will be build up, where the blockchain is distributed and re-
dundantly persisted on the peer-nodes managed by NPOs or volun-
teers themselves. In order to allow new entries to be authenticated
through all nodes in a practicable but nevertheless trustworthy
way, it is crucial to choose a consensus-mechanism [41] which is
adequate for the peculiarities of iVolunteer.
Considering different existing open source blockchain implemen-
tations like OpenChain [7] or MultiChain [38], from a present-day
perspective, BigchainDB [33] seems to be most promising, since
this approach allows for persisting large data volumes aside the
blockchain on basis of NoSQL-DBs [25]. Thereby, not only the
need for a lightweight blockchain is fulfilled, but also the require-
ment for a personal FootPrint-Repository which is able to store
semi-structured or unstructured data (e.g., textual descriptions of a
volunteer’s competencies or of a task).
VMS
Adapter
Profiler
Blockchain
Authentifier
Broker
Gamifier
Engine/Wizard
FootPrint-Repository
Trust Layer
Semantic Layer
Encouragement Layer
Market Layer
Recommender
SN
Trustifier
eRecruiter eEducator
Task-Competence
Ontology
Evolution
Compass
FootPrintNavigator
PrivacyPolicies
SmartContracts
Figure 3: Technical Architecture of iVolunteer
Profiler and Ontologies for Semantic-driven Deduction of
Informal Competencies. A semi-automatic deduction of infor-
mal competencies which are gained by informal learning [29] in the
course of volunteer activities should be performed in iVolunteer
on basis of generic, rule-based Profilers (e.g., [18]) and corre-
sponding reasoning techniques [9]. These profilers are based on
according task-competence-ontologies, consisting of rather generic
iVOLUNTEER — A Digital Ecosystem for Life-long Volunteering iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria
parts in terms of an upper-ontology as well as domain-specific parts,
thus representing the peculiarities of certain volunteer sectors. For
this, semantic technologies will be employed, e.g., Web Ontology
Language (OWL) [24, 28, 42] and Description Logics (DL) [2]. The
ontologies will be based on existing work in the areas of Human
Resource Management [32], eRecruitment [5], eLearning as well
as Competency and Reputation Management [52]. In this respect
it has to be emphasized that not only direct relationships between
tasks and competencies will be formalized, but also indirect associ-
ations which can be exploited from semantic relationships between
both, tasks and competencies (e.g., in case of partOf-competency
relationships, the overall competency can be derived as soon as all
separate competencies are achieved). Moreover, arbitrary complex
interconnections can be representedwithin the ontologies bymeans
of dedicated derivation rules, meaning also that competencies can
be, e.g., derived from textual task descriptions based on Informa-
tion Retrieval/Extraction (IR/IE)-techniques [31]. The developed
generic profilers will be managed within an open, i.e., extensible
ProfilerLibrary, similar to the task-competence ontology, thus
allowing the integration of external sources (e.g., HR-XML [47],
InLOC [17], eLearning-Ontologies [15]) and the development of
new profilers.
4.2 Intelligent Brokerage of Voluntary Work
Recommender for collaborative, content- and semantic-dri-
ven MatchMaking. In order to achieve an optimal coordination
between volunteers, NPOs and help seekers, a so-called iVolunteer
Recommender providing an intelligent MatchMaking-component
will be developed by integrating and adapting existing collaborative
and content-based matching approaches [4, 10, 30]. The goal is to
recommend “best”-fitting tasks automatically, thereby minimizing
the acceptance barrier for certain tasks and at the same time max-
imizing the benefit for all stakeholders. Collaborative matching
approaches should be employed to generate recommendations by
analysing the usage-behaviour of all parties at the iVolunteer
MarketPlace as well as the decision taken by other users and
most important also by incorporating existing social relationships
between users (e.g., recommending tasks which have already been
selected by other closely-related volunteers or SN-friends).
Complementary to that, content-based approaches are used in
order to recommend tasks which have “similar” properties as al-
ready selected ones (e.g., find tasks which are comparable wrt.
location and temporal conditions on basis of spatio-temporal anal-
ysis). No matter if collaborative or content-based matching is used
– a key requirement is to provide appropriate similarity metrics,
going beyond simple syntactical/structural matchings by using
semantic-driven matchmaking, e.g., on basis of ontologies. The cru-
cial challenge will be to ensure a proper user-perceived adequacy of
recommendations. The approach should also be aware of eventually
occurring “Filter Bubbles” [53].
Finally, a challenge, which is especially relevant for real-world
application of iVolunteer, is the consideration of unstructured
data, e.g., textual competency and/or task descriptions as a basis
for recommendations. For this, again IR/IE-techniques [31, 44] will
be employed, whereby systems like Elastic-Search [11] may be a
promising starting point.
PrivacyPolicies and SmartContracts for confident and com-
mitted Brokerage. The recommendations of tasks or volunteers
by the iVolunteer-Recommender component should, on the one
hand, only use data which has been explicitly released by the re-
spective volunteer to respect data sovereignty for volunteers but
should on the other hand lead to obligatory agreements between
the demanding and the supplying party. The basis to achieve these
contradictory goals, is to follow a white-box approach in contrast
to most existing black-box based VMS, meaning that users are able
to personalize the recommender in a way that the rationale behind
all recommendations is fully transparent.
To ensure the fundamental principle of absolute data sover-
eignty, users are empowered to “negotiate” the subjective balance
between revealing data for the public and confidential data from
the personal repository necessary to produce adequate recommen-
dations. This is realized by means of the iVolunteer Broker and
dynamically adaptable PrivacyPolicies as already proposed in
our TheHiddenU-project in another context [22, 26]. Additionally
it should be possible to negotiate different parameters (e.g., if a cer-
tain task would be adequate but the foreseen date is inconvenient),
which are specified on basis of a rule-based language [18].
Finally, to determine that if volunteers meet certain (post-)con-
ditions (e.g., task fulfillment) and at the same time NPOs fulfill
certain (pre-)conditions (e.g., confirmation of a certain competency
and willingness to volunteer for a certain time period honoured
through an entry in the blockchain), blockchain-based Smart Con-
tracts [27] will be employed. Smart Contracts contain a formalized
representation of the pre- and post-conditions which are persisted
within the blockchain. As generic development platform, Ethereum
[13] provides promising functionality.
4.3 Generic Incentive System
Gamifier Engine and Gamifier Wizard for preservation and
increase of intrinsic Engagements. Our goal is to develop a
generic but at the same time customizable GamifierEngine for
iVolunteer which allows to incorporate gamification-elements
in a semi-automatic way inducing intrinsic and long-term motiva-
tional effects on volunteers [1, 14, 36]. Starting out from a so-called
4P-analysis [34], the realization of gamification concepts with re-
spect to the well-known Self-Determination Theory (SDT) [8] and
the commonly accepted HEXAD-player types [49] should be deter-
mined based on [6], from the viewpoint of NPOs and volunteers.
Consequently, gamification strategies have to be designed by map-
ping suitable player types (e.g., socializer or achiever) to adequate
gamification elements [19, 35] according to the peculiarities of the
volunteer sector.
At run-time, a semi-automatic classification of volunteers ac-
cording to the player types is performed by the Gamifier Engine,
based on the revealed iVolunteer FootPrint at the iVolunteer
MarketPlace. The results of this analysis are also employed for a
continuous, situation-adaptive refinement of personalized gamifi-
cation strategies [20]. The goal is to get the users into a so-called
“flow-state” [39] which is sustainable, thereby increasing the engage-
ment of volunteers and achieving long-term motivational effects.
The GamifierEngine should be extensible through the support
of a Game-Mechanics-Layer [35] allowing to integrate additional
iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria Kapsammer et al.
layers or to deactivate existing ones. In order to prevent any nega-
tive effects of gamification elements, a so-called GamifierWizard
should facilitate the configuration and adaptation of the diverse
gamification mechanisms.
FootPrintNavigator and EvolutionCompass for
goal-oriented Personal Development. A crucial success factor
in the context of iVolunteer Encouragement is to raise aware-
ness of the volunteers concerning their self-efficacy. For this, a
FootPrintNavigator is foreseen, allowing to visualize the foot-
print entries within the personal repository in an adequate way,
e.g., based on Kiviat-graphs or Ishikawa-diagrams. In the sense of
traceability of informal learning processes [29], awareness should
be raised which volunteering activities led to which kind of compe-
tences as well as in which way they were derived through profiler.
In this regard, different levels of granularity and aggregation as well
as spatio-temporal aspects (e.g., mobility of volunteers or phase of
life) play a central role. To ensure a proper exploitation of the ben-
efits achieved by volunteering activities, the FootPrintNavigator
should be able to compute interrelationships and aggregations (e.g.,
the “social capital” of a volunteer) by means of deductive profiler
on basis of the iVolunteer FootPrint and machine learning tech-
niques [16]. This aggregated visualization of the value of volun-
teering constitutes a substantial incentive for volunteers, NPOs
and the society as a whole. Another aim is to allow volunteers to
reuse and exchange arbitrary parts of the iVolunteer FootPrint
and thus to exploit them for different purposes (e.g., job applica-
tions or certifications at educational institutions). This should be
achieved by providing appropriate views and adapters exhibiting
export functionality for different data formats (e.g., Europass).
Finally, the definition and traceability of personal development
goals should be explicitly supported bymeans of a EvolutionCompass
using so-called situation evolution models, a state-machine-based
formalism which we successfully applied in the area of situation
awareness systems [3, 12, 43]. The respective situation evolution
models will be developed by resembling findings in the area of hu-
man resource development and goal management systems [32] and
will be used to monitor the path for reaching the personal develop-
ment goals on basis of continuously updated entries in the personal
repository on basis of the task-competence-ontology and by in-
corporating the Recommender (e.g., by pro-actively recommending
volunteer activities which are suitable to move forward on the path
for reaching the personal goals).
5 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we presented our vision of next-generation IT support
for life-long volunteering, one of the most indispensable corner-
stones of our society. We tried to figure out the massive changes the
volunteering sector has been facing throughout the last decade and
provided a discussion how far existing VMS are able to cope with
that new situation. In sharp contrast to existing systems mainly
targeting the scheduling and allocation of volunteer tasks, we pro-
posed to put the volunteer in the middle of concern, adhering to the
metaphor “I Am what I Do”. In this respect, our envisioned system
iVolunteer aims to explicitly support the trustworthy and confi-
dent digitization and exploitation of volunteer engagement, puts
forward an open volunteering marketplace based on intelligent rec-
ommendation and brokering mechanisms and finally emphasizes
the need for long-term encouragement based on gamification mech-
anisms and goal-oriented personal development support. Based on
this vision, a concrete technical architecture was sketched out and
appropriate technologies and mechanisms were discussed as proper
basis for the realization of iVolunteer.
REFERENCES
[1] Omar Al Mutawa. 2015. Impact of volunteer management practice on volunteer
motivation and satisfaction to enhance volunteer retention. Ph.D. Dissertation.
Brunel University London.
[2] Franz Baader. 2003. The description logic handbook: Theory, implementation and
applications. Cambridge university press.
[3] Norbert Baumgartner, Stefan Mitsch, Andreas Müller, Werner Retschitzegger,
Andrea Salfinger, and Wieland Schwinger. 2014. A Tour of BeAware! A Situation-
Awareness Framework for Control Centers. Journal of Information Fusion, Elsevier
20 (11 2014), 155âĂŞ173.
[4] Jesús Bobadilla, Fernando Ortega, Antonio Hernando, and Abraham Gutiérrez.
2013. Recommender systems survey. Knowledge-based systems 46 (2013), 109–
132.
[5] Christina Buttinger, Birgit Pröll, Jürgen Palkoska, Werner Retschitzegger, Man-
fred Schauer, and Reinhold Immler. 2008. JobOlize-Headhunting by Information
Extraction in the era of Web 2.0. In Proceedings of the 7th International Workshop
on Web-Oriented Software Technologies, IWWOST.
[6] E Gil Clary, Mark Snyder, Robert D Ridge, John Copeland, Arthur A Stukas, Julie
Haugen, and Peter Miene. 1998. Understanding and assessing the motivations of
volunteers: a functional approach. Journal of personality and social psychology
74, 6 (1998), 1516.
[7] Coinprism. 2017. Open Chain. www.openchain.org. (2017). [online; accessed on
2017-03-26].
[8] Edward L Deci and Richard M Ryan. 2008. Self-determination theory: A
macrotheory of human motivation, development, and health. Canadian psy-
chology/Psychologie canadienne 49, 3 (2008), 182.
[9] Thomas Eiter, Giovambattista Ianni, Thomas Krennwallner, and Axel Polleres.
2008. Rules and ontologies for the semantic web. In Reasoning Web. Springer,
1–53.
[10] Michael D Ekstrand, John T Riedl, Joseph A Konstan, et al. 2011. Collaborative
filtering recommender systems. Foundations and Trends® in Human–Computer
Interaction 4, 2 (2011), 81–173.
[11] ElasticSearch. 2017. www.elastic.co. (2017). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[12] Mica R Endsley. 1995. Toward a theory of situation awareness in dynamic systems.
Human factors 37, 1 (1995), 32–64.
[13] Ethereum Foundation. 2017. Ethereum. https://www.ethereum.org/. (2017).
[online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[14] Ya Chiang Fu. 2011. The game of life: Designing a gamification system to in-
crease current volunteer participation and retention in volunteer-based nonprofit
organizations. (2011).
[15] Matteo Gaeta, Francesco Orciuoli, and Pierluigi Ritrovato. 2009. Advanced ontol-
ogy management system for personalised e-Learning. Knowledge-Based Systems
22, 4 (2009), 292–301.
[16] Geoffrey Holmes, Andrew Donkin, and Ian H Witten. 1994. Weka: A machine
learning workbench. In Intelligent Information Systems, 1994. Proceedings of the
1994 Second Australian and New Zealand Conference on. IEEE, 357–361.
[17] ICT Standardisation Work Programme. 2013. Integrating Learning Outcomes and
Competences. http://www.cetis.org.uk/inloc/Home. (2013). [online; accessed on
2017-03-26].
[18] JBoss. 2017. Drools - The Business Logic integration Platform. http://www.jboss.
org/drools/. (2017). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[19] Yuan Jia, Bin Xu, Yamini Karanam, and Stephen Voida. 2016. Personality-targeted
gamification: a survey study on personality traits and motivational affordances.
In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems.
ACM, 2001–2013.
[20] Yuan Jia, Bin Xu, Yamini Karanam, and Stephen Voida. 2016. Personality-targeted
gamification: a survey study on personality traits and motivational affordances.
In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems.
ACM, 2001–2013.
[21] D. Johnson, Menezes A., and S. Vanstone. 2001. The Elliptic Curve Digital
Signature Algorithm (ECDSA). http://cs.ucsb.edu/~koc/ccs130h/notes/ecdsa-cert.
pdf. (2001). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[22] Gerti Kappel, Johannes Schönböck, Manuel Wimmer, Gabriele Kotsis, Angelika
Kusel, Birgit Pröll, Werner Retschitzegger, Wieland Schwinger, Roland R. Wagner,
and Stephan Lechner. 2010. TheHiddenU - A Social Nexus for Privacy-Assured
Personalisation Brokerage. In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on
www.openchain.org
www.elastic.co
https://www.ethereum.org/
http://www.cetis.org.uk/inloc/Home
http://www.jboss.org/drools/
http://www.jboss.org/drools/
http://cs.ucsb.edu/~koc/ccs130h/notes/ecdsa-cert.pdf
http://cs.ucsb.edu/~koc/ccs130h/notes/ecdsa-cert.pdf
iVOLUNTEER — A Digital Ecosystem for Life-long Volunteering iiWAS ’17, December 4–6, 2017, Salzburg, Austria
Enterprise Information Systems (ICEIS). SciTePress, 158–162.
[23] Elisabeth Kapsammer, Angelika Kusel, Stefan Mitsch, Birgit Pröll, Werner Rets-
chitzegger, Wieland Schwinger, Johannes Schönböck, Manuel Wimmer, Martin
Wischenbart, and Stephan Lechner. 2012. User Profile Integration Made Easy -
Model-Driven Extraction and Transformation of Social Network Schemas. In Int.
Workshop on Interoperability of User Profiles in Multi-Application Web Environ-
ments (WWW 2012) (WWW ’12 Companion). ACM, 939–948.
[24] Elisabeth Kapsammer, Stephan Lechner, Stefan Mitsch, Birgit Pröll, Werner Rets-
chitzegger, Wieland Schwinger, Manuel Wimmer, and Martin Wischenbart. 2011.
Towards a Reference Model for Social User Profiles: Concept & Implementation.
In Proceedings of the International Workshop on Personalized Access, Profile Man-
agement, and Context Awareness in Databases, at 37th International Conference on
Very Large Data Bases (VLDB).
[25] Martin Kleppmann. 2017. Designing Data-Intensive Applications: The Big Ideas
Behind Reliable, Scalable, and Maintainable Systems. O’Reilly Media, Inc.
[26] Alfred Kobsa. 2007. Privacy-enhanced personalization. Commun. ACM 50, 8
(2007), 24–33.
[27] Ahmed Kosba, Andrew Miller, Elaine Shi, Zikai Wen, and Charalampos Papaman-
thou. 2016. Hawk: The blockchain model of cryptography and privacy-preserving
smart contracts. In Security and Privacy (SP), 2016 IEEE Symposium on. IEEE, 839–
858.
[28] LeeW Lacy. 2005. OWL: Representing information using the web ontology language.
Trafford Publishing.
[29] D.W. Livingstone. 2006. Informal Learning: Conceptual Distinctions and Prelemi-
nary Findings. The Informal Education Reader 249 (2006), 203–227.
[30] Pasquale Lops, Marco De Gemmis, and Giovanni Semeraro. 2011. Content-based
recommender systems: State of the art and trends. In Recommender systems
handbook. Springer, 73–105.
[31] Christopher D. Manning, Prabhakar Raghavan, and Hinrich Schütze. 2008. In-
troduction to Information Retrieval. Cambridge University Press, New York, NY,
USA.
[32] Robert LMathis and John H Jackson. 2011. Human resource management: Essential
perspectives. Cengage Learning.
[33] Trent McConaghy, Rodolphe Marques, Andreas Müller, Dimitri De Jonghe, Troy
McConaghy, Greg McMullen, Ryan Henderson, Sylvain Bellemare, and Alberto
Granzotto. 2017. BigchainDB: a scalable blockchain database. https://www.
bigchaindb.com/whitepaper/. (2017). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[34] Mark Andrew Mitchell and Susan Taylor. 2004. Internal marketing: Key to
successful volunteer programs. Nonprofit World 22, 1 (2004), 25–26.
[35] Baptiste Monterrat, Elise Lavoué, and Sébastien George. 2013. Toward person-
alised gamification for learning environments. In 4th Workshop on Motivational
and Affective Aspects in Technology Enhanced Learning (MATEL 2013) in conjunc-
tion with EC-TEL 2013.
[36] Lucas Morales, Travis Mick, Kurt Lyell, and Alex Fielder. 2017. Toward an Open
Platform for Organized, Gamified Volunteerism.. In CSCW Companion. 259–262.
[37] W. Mougayar. 2015. Understanding the blockchain. https://www.oreilly.com/
ideas/understanding-the-blockchain. (2015). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[38] MultiChain. 2017. www.multichain.org. (2017). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[39] Jeanne Nakamura and Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. 2014. The concept of flow. In
Flow and the foundations of positive psychology. Springer, 239–263.
[40] National Institute of Standards and Technology, Information Technology Labora-
tory. 2015. Secure Hash Standards (SHS). http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/
NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf. (2015). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[41] Marc Pilkington. 2015. Blockchain technology: principles and applications. Re-
search Handbook on Digital Transformations (2015).
[42] Werner Retschitzegger, Wieland Schwinger, Stefan Mitsch, Wolfgang Gottesheim,
Birgit Pröll, Gustavo Rossi, Norbert Baumgartner, and Robert Hutter. 2011. Mak-
ing Workflows Situation Aware - An Ontology-Driven Framework for Dynamic
Spatial Systems. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Information
Integration and Web-based Applications & Services (iiWAS2011). 182–188.
[43] Andrea Salfinger, Werner Retschitzegger, Wieland Schwinger, and Birgit Pröll.
2016. Towards a Crowd-Sensing Enhanced Situation Awareness System for Crisis
Management. Springer International Publishing, Chapter Towards a Crowd-
Sensing Enhanced Situation Awareness System for Crisis Management, 177–211.
[44] Andrea Salfinger, Wieland Schwinger, Werner Retschitzegger, and Birgit Pröll.
2016. Mining the Disaster Hotspots - Situation-Adaptive Crowd Knowledge
Extraction for Crisis Management. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE International
Multi-Disciplinary Conference on Cognitive Methods in Situation Awareness and
Decision Support (CogSIMA). IEEE, 219 – 225.
[45] Johannes Schönböck, Markus Raab, Josef Altmann, Elisabeth Kapsammer, Ange-
lika Kusel, Birgit Pröll, Werner Retschitzegger, and Wieland Schwinger. 2016. A
survey on volunteer management systems. In Proc. of 49th Hawaii International
Conference on System Sciences (HICSS). IEEE, 767–776.
[46] Sozialministerium. 2015. Bericht zur Lage und zu den Perspektiven des Freiwilli-
gen Engagements in Österreich. http://www.freiwilligenweb.at/sites/default/
files/2._freiwilligenbericht.pdf. (2015). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[47] HR Open Standards. 2017. HR Open Standards. http://www.hropenstandards.
org/news/73896/HR-XML-3.2-Standards-Now-Available.html. (2017). [online;
accessed on 2017-03-26].
[48] Ralf Steinmetz, Nicolas Liebau, and Klaus Wehrle. 2007. Peer-to-Peer Systems
(Peer-to-Peer-Systeme). it - Information Technology 49, 5 (2007), 269–271.
[49] Gustavo F Tondello, Rina R Wehbe, Lisa Diamond, Marc Busch, Andrzej Mar-
czewski, and Lennart E Nacke. 2016. The gamification user types hexad scale. In
Proceedings of the 2016 annual symposium on computer-human interaction in play.
ACM, 229–243.
[50] UN Volunteers. 2015. State of the World’s Volunteerism Report. http://www.
volunteeractioncounts.org. (2015). [online; accessed on 2017-03-26].
[51] Martin Wischenbart, Stefan Mitsch, Elisabeth Kapsammer, Angelika Kusel,
Stephan Lechner, Birgit Pröll, Werner Retschitzegger, Johannes Schönböck,
Wieland Schwinger, and Manuel Wimmer. 2013. Automatic data transformation:
breaching the walled gardens of social network platforms. In Proceedings of the
Ninth Asia-Pacific Conference on Conceptual Modelling - Volume 143 (APCCM ’13).
Australian Computer Society, Inc., 89–98.
[52] Giorgos Zacharia and Pattie Maes. 2000. Trust management through reputation
mechanisms. Applied Artificial Intelligence 14, 9 (2000), 881–907.
[53] YuanCao Zhang, DiarmuidÓ Séaghdha, Daniele Quercia, and Tamas Jambor. 2012.
Auralist: introducing serendipity into music recommendation. In Proceedings
of the fifth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining. ACM,
13–22.
[54] Guy Zyskind, Oz Nathan, and Alex Pentland. 2015. Decentralizing privacy: Using
blockchain to protect personal data. In Proc. of Security and Privacy Workshops
(SPW). IEEE, 180–184.
https://www.bigchaindb.com/whitepaper/
https://www.bigchaindb.com/whitepaper/
https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/understanding-the-blockchain
https://www.oreilly.com/ideas/understanding-the-blockchain
www.multichain.org
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf
http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/FIPS/NIST.FIPS.180-4.pdf
http://www.freiwilligenweb.at/sites/default/files/2._ freiwilligenbericht.pdf
http://www.freiwilligenweb.at/sites/default/files/2._ freiwilligenbericht.pdf
http://www.hropenstandards.org/news/73896/HR-XML-3.2-Standards-Now-Available.html
http://www.hropenstandards.org/news/73896/HR-XML-3.2-Standards-Now-Available.html
http://www.volunteeractioncounts.org
http://www.volunteeractioncounts.org
	Abstract
	1 Introduction
	2 Related Work
	3 Challenges and Vision
	4 Architecture and Implementation Issues
	4.1 Trust-guaranteed Persistence
	4.2 Intelligent Brokerage of Voluntary Work
	4.3 Generic Incentive System
	5 Conclusion
	References