Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs
Aggelos Kiayias
University of Edinburgh and IOHK
Edinburgh, United Kingdom
akiayias@inf.ed.ac.uk
Aikaterini-Panagiota Stouka
University of Edinburgh
Edinburgh, United Kingdom
A.Stouka@ed.ac.uk
ABSTRACT
Consider a set of participants invited to execute a protocol Π. The
protocol will incur some cost to run while in the end (or at regular
intervals), it will populate and update local bookkeeping tables
that assign virtual rewards to participants. Each participant aspires
to offset the costs of participation by these virtual payoffs that
are provided in the course of the protocol and are assumed to be
accepted as forms of payment. In this setting, we introduce and
study a notion of coalition-safe equilibria. In particular, we consider
a strategic coalition of participants that is centrally coordinated and
potentially deviates from Π with the objective to increase its utility
with respect to the view of at least one of the other participants.
The protocol Π is called a coalition-safe equilibrium with virtual
payoffs (EVP) if no such protocol deviation exists. We apply our
notion to study incentives in blockchain protocols.
Compared to prior work, our framework has the advantages that
it simultaneously (i) takes into account that each participant may
have a divergent view of the rewards given to the other partici-
pants, as the reward mechanism employed is subject to consensus
among participants (and our notion is well defined independently
of whether the underlying protocol achieves consensus or not) (ii)
accounts for the stochastic nature of these protocols by enforcing
the equilibrium condition to hold with overwhelming probability.
We use our framework to provide a unified picture of incentives
in the Bitcoin blockchain, for absolute and relative rewards based
utility functions. Importantly, we prove that organizing all miners
into a single dictatorial pool is an EVP in the setting of non-zero
transaction verification costs for coalitions of up to 𝑛 − 1 partici-
pants. In addition we prove novel results regarding incentives of
the Fruitchain blockchain protocol [PODC 2017] showing that the
equilibrium condition holds for coalitions up to 𝑛 − 1 participants
for absolute rewards based utility functions and less than 𝑛/2 for
relative rewards based utility functions, with the latter result hold-
ing for any “weakly fair” blockchain protocol, a new property that
we introduce and may be of independent interest.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Information systems→ Incentive schemes; •Theory of com-
putation → Solution concepts in game theory; Algorithmic
game theory; Distributed computing models; • Security and pri-
vacy → Distributed systems security.
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
© 2021 Copyright held by the owner/author(s).
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9082-8/21/09.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480795
KEYWORDS
incentives, protocols, game theoretic analysis, blockchain
ACM Reference Format:
Aggelos Kiayias and Aikaterini-Panagiota Stouka. 2021. Coalition-Safe Equi-
libria with Virtual Payoffs. In 3rd ACM Conference on Advances in Financial
Technologies (AFT ’21), September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA. ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 15 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480795
1 INTRODUCTION
A distributed protocol thought as a game, involves a number of
participants that engage with each other following a certain strat-
egy profile (e.g., following the protocol or deviating from it) and
may incur individual costs as well as rewards. The utility of each
participant, which rational participants aspire to maximize, is some
compound real-valued function that takes into account the costs
incurred and rewards resulting by the interaction. A common char-
acteristic in game theoretic analysis is that costs and rewards are
bestowed authoritatively via some infrastructure that is typically
external to the game execution. Contrary to this, in this work, we
study a game-theoretic setting where rewards are virtual and are
recorded as an outcome of the interaction of the participants in-
dividually in each participant’s local view. Thus, while costs are
incurred authoritatively as before, rewards are “in the eye of the
beholder” and in the end of the interaction two participants may
have diverging views about the rewards that each game participant
has received, while any single participant 𝑃 cares fundamentally
that all the other participants conclude in their local views that 𝑃
has received some minimum amount of rewards.
Our motivation comes from the setting of distributed ledgers.
These protocols were originally studied as an instance of the state
machine replication problem [58] but recently were popularised
again due to the introduction of the Bitcoin blockchain proto-
col [50]. Bitcoin introduced by [50] is a cryptocurrency based on
a blockchain protocol that maintains a public ledger containing
the history of all transactions. The protocol was formally analyzed
in the cryptographic setting in [27, 52]. The main idea behind the
protocol is that transactions are organized into blocks and blocks
form a chain, as each block contains a fingerprint of the previous
block. The longest chain is selected to determine the public ledger.
A block is produced when a proof of work puzzle [11, 23, 35, 54]
is solved by a participant who is called a miner. The difficulty of
solving such a puzzle is adapted to the total computational power
of the miners such that the average number of blocks per unit of
time remain steady. Intuitively solving a puzzle in Bitcoin means
computing the hash value of the block with different nonce each
time and trying to find a hash value that is smaller than a target.
Miners receive as reward for each block they mine as follows: (i) a
flat reward and (ii) an amount of Bitcoin for each transaction they
include in the block. The flat reward gets minted when the block
71
This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-
ShareAlike International 4.0 License.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480795
https://doi.org/10.1145/3479722.3480795
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3479722.3480795&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2021-11-23
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
is produced. The transaction fees are determined and paid by the
sender of the transaction.
One distinguishing feature of blockchain protocols is the empha-
sis they put on the incentives of the participating entities. Classi-
cally, consensus [41] was considered in various threat models, such
as fail-stop failures or Byzantine. However the incentive and game
theoretic aspects of the protocol have received less attention.
In blockchain protocols, the rewards that are bestowed to the
participants are not assigned in an authoritative manner by some
external entity, but rather are recorded as an outcome of bookkeep-
ing that takes place by the interaction of the participants. In such
setting, an important question is whether a strategic coalition of
participants has an incentive to follow the protocol or to deviate.
The most general form is a “monolithic” coalition (abstracted as
an “adversary”) that considers deviating from the protocol in a
coordinated fashion with the aim to increase the joint utility (the
sum of the utilities) of its members.
Different aspects of incentives in Bitcoin were studied in [10, 12,
17, 22, 24, 34, 38, 45, 48] and incentive compatibility for blockchain
protocols was studied in the context of a few protocols, see e.g.,
[6, 14, 53]. With respect to studying the participation in the core
blockchain protocol, Kroll et al. in [34] show that a certain modeling
of the Bitcoin protocol is a Nash equilibrium, while Eyal and Sirer
in [24] show that Bitcoin is not incentive compatible because of
a type of attack called selfish mining that works for any level of
computational power (for Nash equilibrium and incentive compati-
bility definition see related work Section 1.2). Then again, Kiayias
et al. in [38] show that there are thresholds of computational power
where certain games that abstract Bitcoin have honest behavior as a
Nash equilibrium. The above seemingly contradictory results stem
from differences in the game theoretic modeling of the underlying
blockchain protocol and the utility function that is postulated. In
addition, the existing notions of equilibria (cf. Section 1.2 below)
do not appear to be sufficient to completely capture the rational
behavior of participants. First, given the anticipated long term exe-
cution length of such games it is important to consider the variance
of utility and thus merely looking at expected utility might be
insufficient. Second, the reward mechanism employed is subject
to consensus among participants and given that the protocol it-
self aims to achieve such consensus, each participant may have a
divergent view of the rewards given to the other participants.
Thus it is important that the model used to examine the proto-
col takes into account the possibility of such divergence and the
game should be well defined independently of whether the result-
ing interaction achieves consistency or safety, as such properties
should be the result of the rational interaction of participants, not
a precondition for it!
1.1 Our Results
Execution model and Utility with Virtual Payoffs: Our model gen-
eralizes the execution model of [27] and it is based on the “real-
world” protocol execution model of [19–21, 36] with the additional
feature that certain operations of the protocol are abstracted as
oracles and calling such oracles incurs a certain cost to the callers.
In this way, the cost of each participant is solely dependent on par-
ticipants’ actions and aggregates the expenditure that is incurred
during the execution. For example in the case of a proof of work
[11, 23, 35, 54] blockchain protocol such as Bitcoin this may amount
to the number of queries posed to the hash function. At any point
of an execution, each participant has a local view regarding the
virtual rewards of all participants, including themselves. The key
observation for defining utility in our setting is that given that
the rewards are virtual, it is not particularly advantageous for a
participant to be in a state where according to its own bookkeeping
it has collected some rewards; instead what is important, is what
other participants believe about the participant’s rewards. In this
way we define two types of reward functions 𝑅max, 𝑅min
which will
correspondingly give rise to two utility functions (𝑈max
and𝑈min
).
Note that the cost used in the utility functions is independent of
the view of the honest parties. The 𝑅max
rewards of a coalition
represent the maximum amount of rewards a coalition has received
quantified over all other participants (which do not belong to the
coalition), while 𝑅min
is similarly the minimum amount of rewards.
Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs (EVP) . Based on these functions
(reward, cost and utility functions), we present a formal notion of
approximate Nash equilibrium, called coalition-safe Equilibrium
with Virtual Payoffs (EVP). Informally, a protocol Π is an EVP if it
guarantees that with overwhelming probability, a rational strate-
gic actor (hence called the adversary) who controls a coalition of
participants, cannot, by possibly deviating, significantly increase
their utility in the view of any of the other participants. As a result,
for a given protocol Π, if there is a small, but non-negligible, proba-
bility that the utility of the adversary deviating from Π becomes
significantly higher in the view of a single other participant then
such protocol will not be an EVP. In more details, our notion of
equilibrium is defined by examining two independent executions
of the protocol in question. In the first execution the adversary
controlling a coalition follows the protocol while in the second
execution it might deviate in some strategic fashion. In both exe-
cutions the participants who are not controlled by the adversary
(we refer to them as honest participants) follow the protocol
1
. The
way in which we examine these two executions is by comparing
the utilities of the adversary in these two executions for all pos-
sible environments. The underlying protocol is EVP when with
overwhelming probability the𝑈max
utility of the adversary when
it deviates is not significantly higher compared to its 𝑈min
utility
when it follows the protocol. This means that in order for the under-
lying protocol not to be an EVP, there will be an alternative strategy
and an environment with respect to which: the execution where
the adversary deviates results, with a non-negligible probability, to
a significantly higher utility, in the view of one honest participant,
compared to its lowest utility in the execution where it follows the
protocol (lowest is quantified over the view of all the honest partici-
pants). In our analysis, we revisit three important utility definitions
for blockchain protocols: (i) absolute rewards (ii) absolute rewards
minus absolute cost and (iii) relative rewards. With the term abso-
lute rewards we refer to the amount of the rewards that a set of
participants accrues by the end of the execution. With the term
absolute cost we mean the cost that this set of participants pays
1
This is in line with the notion of Nash equilibrium where all but one (or all except
a coalition) follow the indicated strategy, and we examine if one (or a coalition) can
increase its utility by choosing a strategy different from the indicated.
72
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
during the execution expressed in absolute terms. With the term
relative rewards we refer to the rewards of this set of participants
divided by the total rewards given to all the participants. We note
that the first and the third type of utility have been considered in a
number of previous works, specifically, [34, 53] used the first type
and [14, 24, 38] used the third type. In addition the second type was
used in [12, 40, 59]. For the formal definition of these functions cf.
Definition 2.2.
EVP Analysis of Blockchain Protocols: Using our model we prove
positive and negative results regarding the incentives in Bitcoin
unifying previous seemingly divergent views on how the proto-
col operates in terms of incentives, cf. Theorems 3.1,3.2,3.3,3.4,3.5.
Specifically, we prove that Bitcoin with fixed target is an EVP with
utility based on absolute rewards, and absolute rewards minus ab-
solute costs, while it is not with respect to relative rewards, cf.
Figure 1.
We then prove that when the cost of processing the transactions
is non-zero then deviating from the Bitcoin protocol and converging
all parties into a single mining pool is an EVP according to the
utility function based on absolute rewards minus absolute cost (cf.
Theorem 4.2). The utility of this strategy dominates the Bitcoin
protocol and thus the all Bitcoin miners will prefer to centralize to
a single operator entity rather than run the protocol individually.
2
Next, we prove regarding incentives of Fruitchain, [53], the fol-
lowing new result: when the utility is based on absolute rewards
minus absolute cost, the Fruitchain protocol is an EVP against a
coalition including even up to all but one of the participants (cf.
Theorem 6.2). Moreover we define a property called “(𝑡, 𝛿)-weak
fairness” that is weaker than “fairness” defined in [53] or “ideal
chain quality” described in [27] and the “race-free property” in
[14] (for more details cf. Section 5) and is sufficient for proving
that a protocol is EVP when the utility is based on relative rewards
(cf. Theorem 5.2). This allows us to also prove the following re-
sult: when the utility is based on relative rewards, the Fruitchain
protocol is EVP in the synchronous setting (cf. Section 2) against
any coalition including fewer than half of the number of the par-
ticipants (assuming participants of equal computational power, cf.
Theorem 6.1). Further, we note that the approximation factor in
the EVP is merely a constant additive factor. Regarding the level
of rewards, in [53] the total rewards 𝑉 of an execution are derived
from: (a) the flat rewards of the fruits (for details regarding what
a fruit according to [53] is, cf. Section 6) and (b) the transaction
fees from the transactions inside the fruits; in both cases these are
distributed evenly among the miners and 𝑉 is a fixed constant in
the whole execution. Our result improves the above in this respect,
for both absolute and relative rewards based utilities, as we show
that the protocol is an EVP even if rewards are a function of the
security parameter or the length of the execution.
We note that our model is synchronous and in our results we
consider that the adversary is “static” which means that the partici-
pants that form the adversarial coalition are fixed every time at the
2
Arguably this is also observed in the real world where just a handful of mining
pools (see, e.g., https://www.blockchain.com/pools) control the system. Presumably
the existence of externalities (such as the perception of decentralization and the way
this affects the value of Bitcoin) is the a possible reason for not converging to a single
mining pool which would have been the preferred choice per our result (that assumes
no externalities).
AbsR/AbsR-C RelR
Bitcoin fixed target 𝑛 − 1
(∗) (𝑐)
NO
(1)
Bitcoin variable target NO
(2)
NO
(3)
Fruitchain (𝑛 − 1) (†) < 𝑛/2
Figure 1: Overview of our results as well as previous results
that are consistent with the EVP model regarding whether
following the Bitcoin and the Fruitchain protocol is an equi-
librium. AbsR stands for a utility based on absolute rewards,
AbsR-C for a utility based on absolute rewards minus ab-
solute cost, while RelR stands for a utility based on rela-
tive rewards. The function in 𝑛 specifies the larger coalition
size for which the equilibrium stands. “NO” means that fol-
lowing the protocol is not an equilibrium. (1),(3) are derived
from [24], (2) is derived from [25]. (∗) is related to the re-
sults presented in [12, 34] ; with (𝑐) we indicate our result
that takes into account the cost of processing the transac-
tions and demonstrates that Bitcoinwith fixed target is dom-
inated by the single mining pool strategy. A weaker bound
of the (†) result in terms of coalition size (specifically < 𝑛/2)
was shown in [53].
onset together with the hashing costs that are payable during each
round. We will refer to this setting as “static adversary with fixed
cost.” This type of cost model is consistent with cloud mining [1]
where participants establish a contract and they pay a fixed rental
fee per time unit.
1.2 Other Related Work
Recall that a strategy, which indicates how each participant behaves
in the game, is an 𝜖-Nash equilibrium when the following holds
(see e.g., [37]): if all but one of the participants follow their strategy
indicated by the strategy profile, the remaining participant has no
incentives to deviate from its indicated strategy as well, as its utility
can only be increased by a small insignificant amount bounded by 𝜖 .
Extended notions of equilibria capture strategic coalitions as well,
cf. [9, 15], giving rise to “Strong” Nash Equilibria. Note that if we
show that a blockchain protocol is an 𝜖-Nash equilibrium, we know
that nobody can increase its utility by more than 𝜖 , via a unilateral
deviation, assuming that everybody else follows the protocol.
The concept of Incentive compatibility appears in a few different
forms in the literature. “Dominant-strategy incentive-compatibility"
is satisfiedwhen there is not a strictly better strategy than telling the
truth or following the protocol respectively whatever the other par-
ticipants do. “Bayesian-Nash incentive-compatibility" is a weaker
notion and a protocol satisfies it when there is a type of Nash
equilibrium called “Bayesian Nash equilibrium", where all the par-
ticipants tell the truth supposing that all the other participants do
the same [4]. In cryptocurrency literature some times the incentive
compatibility notion is used as equivalent to the Nash equilibrium
notion [43]. More broadly, maximizing the profits or maximizing
the utility can be seen as an optimization problem that includes at
least two constraints. The first constraint is incentive compatibility
73
https://www.blockchain.com/pools
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
and the second constraint is the participation constraint which sug-
gests that when a participant participates in the game, this does
not result in lower utility compared to not participating [32].
A closely related work that focused on Byzantine Agreement
and rational behavior is [30]. Some distinctions between our work
and [30] are that (i) their utility model is tailored to the setting
of (single shot) binary Byzantine agreement, while we focus on
distributed ledgers that record transactions and rewards for the
participants, (ii) in the definition of equilibrium they consider the
expectation of utility as opposed to bounds on utility that are sup-
posed to hold with high probability, (iii) at equilibrium, the rational
adversary may deviate from the protocol as long as the properties
of Byzantine agreement are not violated, while we consider any
protocol deviation (including those that “break” consensus) as long
as the adversarial coalition benefits in the view of one participant.
The “BAR” model introduced in [7] combines Byzantine partici-
pants, i.e., participants that can deviate from the protocol arbitrarily,
in addition to honest and rational participants. This model includes
three types of participants: altruistic, Byzantine and rational. An-
other game theoretic notion that takes into account malicious and
rational participants in the context of multi-party computation is
called “𝜖-(𝑘, 𝑡)-robust Nash equilibrium” defined in [5]. In “𝜖-(𝑘, 𝑡)-
robust Nash equilibrium”[5] no participant in a coalition of up to 𝑘
participants should be able to increase their utility given that there
exist up to 𝑡 malicious participants. Note that in our case following
[53] when we consider coalitions we study their joint utility (by
summing individual rewards) and not the utility of each participant
separately something that results in a more relaxed notion in this
respect (but still suitable for the distributed ledger setting: follow-
ing [27, 53] when we study proof of work cryptocurrencies, each
participant represents a specific amount of computational power.
So a coalition of participants could also be thought to represent one
miner).
In [26] a framework for “rational protocol design” is described
that is based on the simulation paradigm. That framework was
extended and used for examining the incentive compatibility of
Bitcoin in [12]. In [12] the basic premise is that the miners aim to
maximize their expected revenue and the framework describes a
meta-game between just two participants: a protocol designer D
and an attacker A. The Designer D aims to design a protocol that
maximizes the expected revenue of the non adversarial participants
and keep the blockchain consistent without forks. The adversary
A aims to maximize its expected revenue. One difference of our
model compared to [12] is that we let the coalition deviate from
the protocol not only if its expected utility increases significantly
by deviating, but even if it can increase its actual utility signifi-
cantly just with not negligible probability. In addition [12] focuses
exclusively on the incentive compatibility of Bitcoin and only when
utility is based on absolute rewards minus absolute cost and does
not captures issues such as pooling.
Moreover, a framework for identifying attacks against the in-
centive schemes of the blockchain protocols is proposed in [33]. In
[16], proof of work blockchain protocols are modeled as stochastic
games while in [47] a survey of game theoretic applications in the
blockchain setting is presented.
As we already mentioned, in [53] the Fruitchain protocol is pre-
sented, which preserves the security properties of Bitcoin protocol
and satisfies a 𝛿-approximate fairness property (assuming honest
majority) that is shown to be enough for incentive compatibility
when the utility is based on absolute rewards. In addition, in [53] a
definition of approximate Nash equilibrium is described, denoted
by“𝜌-coalition-safe 𝜖-Nash equilibrium” that guarantees protocol
conformity with overwhelming probability. Our EVP definition
compared to [53] is both more general and more explicit in the
sense that: (i) it includes a formal description of the properties of
the protocol’s executions that give rise to the random variables
that should be compared, (ii) it includes a formal definition of re-
ward and utility functions, (iii) it takes into account in a rigorous
way the fact that local views of honest participants may diverge
and it is well defined even when the underlying protocol does not
satisfy common prefix property defined in [27]. In high level when
a blockchain protocol satisfies common prefix property, then all
the honest participants’ local chains share the same prefix with
overwhelming probability. As it has been proved in [27], Bitcoin
satisfies common prefix property assuming honest majority. Note
that when we study a blockchain protocol from a game theoretic
perspective, where we allow rational coalitions to include almost
all the participants, we cannot assume honest majority and thus
that common prefix property is satisfied (iv) it is well defined also
for utilities that can take negative values, such as that one based
on absolute rewards minus absolute cost.
Another property related to “fairness" is “t-immunity" in [5].
The last property considers utility as an expectation. Note that the
notion of fairness has also been used in [44]. A notion of weak fair-
ness has also been used in [46] for a different purpose. Specifically
in [46] fairness refers to exchanges between participants; both or
neither of the participants take the other’s item.
A closely related work in terms of Bitcoin centralization is [18]
which proves that if the Bitcoin reward function is used in a pooled
proof of stake setting that is deterministic, then there is no equi-
librium with more than one pool. We note that in this paper we
examine directly the Bitcoin protocol taking into account the cost
of mining and processing transactions and also its stochastic na-
ture. Moreover, our result on Bitcoin centralizing in a single mining
pool when transaction processing costs are non-zero is also com-
plementary to the result of Arnosti and Weinberg [8] who prove
that deviations in the hashing power costs may also lead to central-
ization. In their setting centralization takes place as a response to
differences in electricity costs; instead in our setting centralization
occurs due to the non-negligible cost of transaction processing and
the rational desire to share that cost. Finally other works related to
the Bitcoin centralization are [28, 42, 60].
For more details regarding the related work see the full version
of this paper in [39].
2 OUR MODEL
Our definition of coalition-safe equilibria with virtual payoffs is
built on a model of protocol execution that extends the model de-
scribed in [27], and is based on [19–21, 36]. This model constitutes
the basis for analyzing incentives in an arbitrary blockchain pro-
tocol Π (but is not necessarily restricted to blockchain protocols).
The main components of the model are: a system of interactive
Turing machines ITMs (Z,C), a strategic coalition of participants
74
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
that abstractly are referred to as the “adversary”, A which is also
an ITM, and the ITM instances (ITIs) 𝑃1, 𝑃2, ..., 𝑃𝑛 that represent
the participants of our protocol that run the blockchain protocol Π.
C is the control program that controls the interactions between the
ITIs. Z is the “environment” or in other words the initial Turing
machine that represents the external world to the protocol. It gives
inputs to the participants and the adversary and it receives outputs
from them. The adversary is static and controls a set of 𝑡 ′ partici-
pants {𝑃𝑖1 , ..., 𝑃𝑖𝑡′ } ⊆ {𝑃1, ..., 𝑃𝑛} in the beginning of the execution.
We will use the notation 𝑇 = {𝑃𝑖1 , ..., 𝑃𝑖𝑡′ } and 𝑆 = {𝑃1, ..., 𝑃𝑛}. Let
𝑡 be the upper bound on the number of the participants the adver-
sary controls. In the definition of equilibrium we will put forth, we
consider executions where adversary follows an arbitrary strategy
while the remaining participants follow Π.
The execution is synchronous and is progressing in rounds as
in [27], which means that at the end of each round all the honest
participants receive all the messages sent from all the other honest
participants.
However, compared to [27], instead of just a random oracle on
which a cryptographic hash function [3] is modelled, we allow
for many oracles, where each oracle represents a cryptographic
task, such as issuing a digital signature or processing transactions.
We denote those by 𝑂1, . . . ,𝑂𝑙 . The environment Z is forced by
the control program C to activate all the participants in sequence
performing a “round-robin” participant execution. Each participant
can ask each oracle 𝑂𝑘 an upper bounded number of queries 𝑞𝑘
during each round and each query has a cost 𝑐𝑘 . The limitation
in access is controlled by the control program C. The participants
produce messages delivered via a “Diffuse Functionality” as in [27].
TheDiffuse functionality adjusts the protocol execution in rounds
and determines the communication between the honest participants
and the adversary. Specifically it allows the adversary to see the
messages produced by the honest participants and delay them until
the end of the round. So the adversary can deliver first its messages.
However at the end of each round, the Diffuse functionality delivers
to all the honest participants all the messages sent from the other
honest participants. Note that the Diffuse functionality gives the
opportunity to the adversary to deliver first its own messages to
the honest participants.
In order to model our notion of equilibrium we need to compare
between two possible executions across arbitrary environments.
Given this, it is important to fix the number of rounds the environ-
ment runs the protocol. To accommodate this, we will define as
𝑟 -admissible an environment which performs the protocol a number
of rounds 𝑟 = 𝑝 (^) ≥ ^, where 𝑝 is a polynomial, after which it
will terminate the execution. Note also that in line with [19, 20] the
input of the environment will be 1
𝑝′ (^)
, where 𝑝 ′ is a polynomial.
The Reward and Cost Functions. We associate with a protocol
Π, a reward function that determines the virtual rewards of each
set of participants given a local view of a participant that does not
belong to the coalition after the last round 𝑟 of the execution. Each
participant may have a different local view and as a result different
conclusion regarding the rewards of other participants. Note that in
a blockchain protocol this local view is reflected in the blockchain
maintained by the participant. Formally: E is the set of all the
executions of the protocol Π with respect to any adversary and
environment. Note that an execution E is completely determined by
the adversary A, the environmentZ, the control program C and
the randomness of these processes, as all the honest participants
follow the protocol Π. The randomness determines the private
coins of the participants, the environment, the adversary, and the
oracles like the random oracle if they exist as e.g., in [27]. We use
EZ,A to denote this random variable, where we have specified the
environment and the adversary but not the randomness.
3
The function 𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
: E −→ R is called the reward function and
maps an execution E ∈ E to the virtual rewards of a set 𝑇 of
participants according to the local view of a participant 𝑃 𝑗 with
𝑃 𝑗 ∈ 𝑆 \𝑇 after the last round 𝑟 of the execution. As an example, in
the Bitcoin blockchain protocol we can consider the rewards for
each participant to be the block rewards from the blocks that it has
produced plus the transaction fees of the transactions included in
these blocks. We define also
𝑅min
𝑇 (EZ,A ) = min{𝑅 𝑗
𝑇
(EZ,A )}𝑃 𝑗 ∈𝑆\𝑇
and
𝑅max
𝑇
(EZ,A ) = max{𝑅 𝑗
𝑇
(EZ,A )}𝑃 𝑗 ∈𝑆\𝑇
The function 𝐶𝑖 : E −→ R is called the cost function and maps
an execution E ∈ E to the cost a participant 𝑃𝑖 incurred because of
the queries it did to the oracles until the end of the last round 𝑟 of
the execution E.
As we will explain later in our results: (i) when we want to take
into account cost of mining, we assume that each participant can
ask an oracle, called Random Oracle, at most 𝑞 queries and incurs
cost 𝑐 for each query. (ii) when we want to take into account the
cost of processing transactions, we assume that each participant
asks an oracle, called Transaction Oracle, one query during each
round and incurs cost 𝑐bk for each query. In the latter case, if a
coalition/pool is created, then only the pool leader(the participant
who creates the coalition) asks the Transaction Oracle once a round
and incurs 𝑐bk per round. This captures the fact that the same set
of transactions can be used by all members of the pool (cf. Section
4 for more details).
Remark 1. We assume that virtual rewards and costs are directly
comparable and any exchange rate between virtual rewards and cost
tokens is constant and is applied directly. For instance, the participants
themselves may also be acting as exchanges between virtual rewards
and fiat currency or they may be delivering services that offset the
costs directly.4 Extending our results to a setting where a fluctuating
exchange rate in the course of the execution exists between virtual
rewards and cost tokens is an interesting direction for future work.
Utility with Virtual Payoffs. We next define the (virtual) utility
of a coalition of participants that are controlled by a single rational
entity, the adversary. The utility may take various forms and wewill
consider settings where the adversary cares about its absolute re-
wards, its relative rewards or its absolute rewards minus its absolute
cost. Other types of utility may also be defined, e.g., the adversary
3
For simplicity we omit reference to the control program because it is the same in all
the executions.
4
This does not interfere with the fact that some participants may have diverging
opinions on the rewards of another participant. The diverging opinion is based on
the amount of the virtual currency recorded in their bookkeeping tables and not the
exchange rate which is assumed fixed.
75
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
may want to minimize the rewards of a specific participant. We will
describe the utility of a coalition controlled by a static adversary
that includes the set of participants 𝑇 = {𝑃𝑖1 , ..., 𝑃𝑖𝑡′ } ⊆ {𝑃1, ..., 𝑃𝑛}.
Definition 2.1. We define the utility function of a 𝑇 -coalition in
the view of a participant 𝑃 𝑗 as a function 𝑈
𝑗
𝑇
: E −→ R that maps
an execution of E to a real value.
Based on the above, we define also
𝑈max
𝑇
(EZ,A ) = max
𝑃 𝑗 ∈𝑆\𝑇
{𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
(EZ,A )}
and
𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,A ) = min
𝑃 𝑗 ∈𝑆\𝑇
{𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
(EZ,A )}
Using the reward and cost functions from the previous sections,
we define below a few types of utilities that will be relevant in our
analysis:
Definition 2.2. Different types of utility of a coalition 𝑇 defined
over an arbitrary E ∈ E:
• Absolute Rewards. 𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
(E) = 𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E),
• AbsoluteRewardsminusAbsoluteCost.𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
(E) = 𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E)−∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (E),
• Relative Rewards.𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
(E) =
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E)
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E)
if defined and 0 other-
wise.
• RelativeRewardsminusRelativeCost.𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
(E) =
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E)
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E)
−∑
𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (E)∑
𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (E)
, if defined and 0 otherwise.
Coalition Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs. We will examine
two executions of a protocol Π with the same environment, but
with different adversary and randomness. In both executions the
adversary corrupts the same set of participants denoted by 𝑇 with
cardinality 𝑡 ′ that is upper bounded by 𝑡 . The adversary is static
which means that during the execution it does not corrupt other
participants that are not included in𝑇 . In the first execution EZ,𝐻𝑇
the adversary runs the 𝐻𝑇 program which means that it follows
the protocol Π, i.e., plays “honestly”, but it takes advantage of its
network presence. Note that in our case “taking advantage of its
network presence” means that the adversary delivers its messages
first, whenmultiple competing solutions or in other wordsmessages
(such as proof of work instances) are produced during a round.
5
In
the second execution E ′
Z,A the adversary is denoted by A and
might deviate in some arbitrary way from Π. For example, in a
proof of work blockchain protocol a possible deviation would be to
perform selfish mining [24].
Definition 2.3. Let 𝜖, 𝜖 ′ be positive constants near (or equal to)
zero and 𝑟 a polynomial in ^ , the security parameter. The protocol
is (𝑡, 𝜖, 𝜖 ′)-equilibrium with virtual payoffs (EVP) according to a
5
We do not consider in this present treatment the cost of having a high presence in
the network. Moreover, it is relatively easy to see that if network dominance is given
at no cost, it is a rational choice for an adversary to opt for it in the Bitcoin setting
since it will guarantee that more rewards will be accrued over time. We note that a
similar type of reasoning was adopted also in [12] and the corresponding adversary
was referred to as “front running.”
utility {𝑈 𝑗
𝑇
}𝑃 𝑗 ∈𝑆\𝑇 when for every PPT static adversary A that
controls an arbitrary set of 𝑡 ′ ≤ 𝑡 participants indexed by𝑇 and for
every 𝑟 -admissible environment Z, it holds that
𝑈max
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) ≤ 𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) + 𝜖 · | 𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) | +𝜖 ′
with overwhelming probability in^ . EZ,𝐻𝑇
, E ′
Z,A are two random
variables that represent two independent executions with the same
environment Z and adversary 𝐻𝑇 and A respectively.
Remark 2. Note that we need absolute value on the right side
of the inequality because 𝑈min
𝑇
(EZ,𝐻𝑇
) can be negative when for
example it is equal to the profit (absolute rewards minus absolute
cost) of a participant. We use two parameters, 𝜖 and 𝜖 ′, to explicitly
account for multiplicative and additive deviations in the utility of the
diverging adversarial coalition of participants.
Remark 3. When the adversary selects the strategy that the par-
ticipants controlled by the adversary do not ask any query and do
not participate at all, then its utility is zero for all possible choices of
utility from Definition 2.2. As a result if a protocol is an EVP then this
implies that the utility of 𝐻𝑇 will be not significantly smaller than
0. This parallels the participation constraint that is encountered in
optimization problems in economics [32].
The definition is generic and includes all probabilistic polynomial
time (PPT) static adversaries but in our results we will consider for
simplicity a static PPT adversary with fixed cost who decides in the
beginning how many queries the participants that it controls will
ask (and thus how much cost will incur). Recall that this type of
cost model in the setting of proof of work blockchains is consistent
with cloud mining [1]. Formally, we have the following.
Definition 2.4. A static adversary with fixed cost is an adversary
that chooses in the beginning of the execution to control a set
𝑇 = {𝑃𝑖1 , ..., 𝑃𝑖𝑡′ } ⊆ {𝑃1, ..., 𝑃𝑛} of 𝑡 ′ participants and it commits
to the number of queries (of the available 𝑞) each participant 𝑃𝑖𝑚 ,
(𝑚 = 1, . . . , 𝑡 ′) that it controls will ask the hash function oracle
Random Oracle during each round of the execution. This number is
denoted by 𝑞 − 𝑥𝑚 . The number of the queries that the adversary
will not ask the Random Oracle during a round will be denoted by 𝑥 .
This type of adversary can choose any strategy, but it is committed
to paying during each round the cost that it chose in the beginning
of the execution.
3 INCENTIVES IN BITCOIN
In this section we lay out some basic results about the Bitcoin
protocol’s EVP properties. We adopt the abstraction of [27] and we
capture cost of mining by ascribing a cost 𝑐 for each query to the
Random Oracle. Each query to the Random Oracle has probability 𝑝
to give a solution which is a valid block that extends the chain. We
assume that each block gives a flat reward 𝑤 to the participant who
produced it. Each participant can ask the Random Oracle at most 𝑞
queries per round. In this setting we provide positive results (that
following Bitcoin is EVP) for utilities absolute rewards and absolute
rewards minus absolute cost and negative results (that Bitcoin is not
EVP for reasonable approximation parameters) for utility relative
rewards.
In the next section we extend our setting and we take into ac-
count also the cost of processing transactions.
76
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
Notation
𝑝 probability with which a query to the random oracle gives a block
𝑝 𝑓 probability with which a query to the random oracle gives a fruit
𝑞 number of queries each participant can ask the random oracle during each round
𝑡 ′ number of participants controlled by the adversary
𝑡 upper bound of 𝑡 ′
𝑟 round after which an execution terminates
𝑛 number of participants
𝑤 flat reward per block (Bitcoin)
𝑤 𝑓 flat reward per fruit (Fruitchain [53])
𝑠 expected number of solutions per round
𝑥 the number of the queries the coalition does not ask during each round
𝑆 the set of all the participants
𝑇 the set of the participants controlled by the adversary
𝑐bk cost of processing transactions per round by a single node
𝑐 cost of a single query to the Random Oracle.
The expected number of solutions per round by all participants
is denoted by 𝑠 . We note that 𝑠 is assumed to be close to zero (e.g., in
[27] it is noted that 𝑠 ≈ 0.03 for the Bitcoin protocol parametrization
and network conditions).
In the statements below, recall 𝑡 ′ is the number of the participants
controlled by the adversary, 𝑡 is the upper bound on 𝑡 ′, 𝑆 is the set
of all the participants and 𝑇 the set controlled by the adversary.
The results are as follows (for the proofs see the full version of this
paper in [39]).
Absolute rewards: When the utility is based on absolute rewards
(cf. Def.2.2), then Bitcoin with fixed target is EVP against a coalition
that includes even up to all but one of the participants. This is in
agreement with the result of [34]. The intuition behind this result is
that if the utility only depends on how many blocks are produced,
then there is no incentive to deviate from the protocol — e.g., by
creating forks or by keeping blocks private. The reason is that if
one deviates from the protocol then it increases the possibility that
its blocks will not be included in the public ledger compared to
following the protocol. Moreover, the number of the blocks the
adversary produces during a round depends only on 𝑝, 𝑞, 𝑡 and not
on which chain the adversary extends.
Theorem 3.1. For any 𝛿1 ∈ (0, 0.25) such that 4 ·𝛿1 · (1+𝑠) +𝑠 < 1,
where 𝑠 the expected number of solutions per round, Bitcoin with fixed
target in a synchronous setting where the reward of each block is a
constant, is (𝑛 − 1, 4 · 𝛿1 · (1 + 𝑠) + 𝑠, 0)-EVP according to the utility
function absolute rewards (Def. 2.2).
Note that the better synchronization we have (the fewer expected
number of solutions per round 𝑠) then the better EVP
6
we have
(the lower 4 · 𝛿1 + (1 + 4 · 𝛿1) · 𝑠 is). Recall 4 · 𝛿1 + (1 + 4 · 𝛿1) · 𝑠 is
related to how much the adversary can gain if it deviates. Moreover,
in the theorem we allow the adversary to control all but one of
the participants (and not all) because we want at least one honest
local chain according to which we can determine the rewards of
the adversary.
6
By “better EVP” we mean that the actual values of 𝜖, 𝜖′ are smaller.
We extend the above result also in the setting where the block
reward changes after a period of 𝑙 · ^ or more rounds where 𝑙 a
positive constant and^ the security parameter during the execution.
Theorem 3.2. Supposing that (i) the block reward changes every
at least 𝑙 · ^ rounds where 𝑙 a positive constant and ^ the security
parameter and (ii) the environment terminates the execution at least
𝑙 · ^ rounds after the last change of the block reward then it holds:
for any 𝛿1 ∈ (0, 0.25) such that 4 · 𝛿1 · (1 + 𝑠) + 𝑠 < 1, where 𝑠 the
expected number of solutions per round, Bitcoin with fixed target in a
synchronous setting is (𝑛 − 1, 4 · 𝛿1 · (1 + 𝑠) + 𝑠, 0)-EVP according to
the utility function absolute rewards (def.2.2).
Note that in the analysis above, we assume throughout that the
target used in the proof of work function remains fixed as in [27].
It is easy to see that if this does not hold, then the adversary using
selfish mining [24] can cause the protocol to adopt a target that
becomes greater than what is supposed to be, and thus the difficulty
in mining a block will decrease, as the total computational power
would appear smaller than it really is. In this case, the adversary
can produce blocks faster and as such it can magnify its rewards
resulting in a negative result in terms of EVP (see also [31]). It is
an easy corollary that the protocol will not be an EVP in this case.
Absolute rewards minus absolute cost: When the utility is based
on absolute rewards minus absolute cost then the Bitcoin protocol
with fixed target is EVP against a coalition that controls even up to
all but one of the participants, assuming the cost of each query 𝑐
is small enough compared to the block reward𝑤 . Again the better
synchronization we have, the better EVP we have.
Theorem 3.3. Suppose that there exists 𝜙 ∈ (0, 1 − 𝑠) such that
𝑐 < 𝑝 ·𝑤 · 𝜙/(1 + 𝑝 · 𝑞 · (𝑛 − 1)). Then, supposing that the reward of
each block is a constant𝑤 , it holds: for any 𝛿1 ∈ (0, 0.25), such that
𝑐 ≤ 𝑝 ·𝑤 · (1−𝛿1) ·𝜙/(1+𝑝 ·𝑞 · (𝑛−1)) and 4 ·𝛿1 · (1+𝑠) +𝑠 < 1−𝜙 ,
where 𝑠 the expected number of solutions per round, Bitcoin with fixed
target in a synchronous setting is (𝑛−1, (4 ·𝛿1 · (1+𝑠) +𝑠)/(1−𝜙), 0)-
EVP according to the utility function absolute rewards minus absolute
cost (Def. 2.2).
Remark 4. The assumption that there exists 𝜙 ∈ (0, 1 − 𝑠) such
that 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 · 𝜙/(1 + 𝑝 · 𝑞 · (𝑛 − 1)) means that the reward of
77
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
each block is high enough to compensate the miners for the cost of
the mining. When the cost is high compared to the rewards and the
difficulty of mining not fixed then unexpected behaviours appear as
proved in [25].
Note that the smaller the cost of each query is, the better EVP
we have (because we can select smaller 𝜙 such that (4 · 𝛿1 + (1 + 4 ·
𝛿1) · 𝑠)/(1 − 𝜙) is smaller).
We extend the above result also to the case when the block
reward changes every at least 𝑙 ·^ rounds where 𝑙 a positive constant
and ^ the security parameter.
Theorem 3.4. Assume that (i) the block reward changes every
at least 𝑙 · ^ rounds where 𝑙 a positive constant and ^ the security
parameter and (ii) the environment terminates the execution at least
𝑙 · ^ rounds after the last change of the block reward. Let 𝑤 𝑗 for
𝑗 ∈ {0, ...,𝑚} be all the block rewards respectively for each player.
Assuming that there exists 𝜙 ∈ (0, 1 − 𝑠) such that 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 𝑗 ·
𝜙/(1 + 𝑝 · 𝑞 · (𝑛 − 1)) for all 𝑗 ∈ {0, ...,𝑚}, then it holds: for any
𝛿1 ∈ (0, 0.25), such that 𝑐 ≤ 𝑝 ·𝑤 𝑗 · (1 − 𝛿1) · 𝜙/(1 + 𝑝 · 𝑞 · (𝑛 − 1))
for all 𝑗 ∈ {0, ...,𝑚} and 4 · 𝛿1 · (1 + 𝑠) + 𝑠 < 1 − 𝜙 , where 𝑠 the
expected number of solutions per round, Bitcoin with fixed target in
a synchronous setting is (𝑛 − 1, (4 · 𝛿1 · (1 + 𝑠) + 𝑠)/(1 − 𝜙), 0)-EVP
according to the utility function absolute rewards minus absolute cost
(Def. 2.2).
Relative rewards: When the utility is based on relative rewards,
i.e., the ratio of rewards of the strategic coalition of the adversary
over the total rewards of all the participants, Bitcoin with fixed
target cannot be an EVP with small 𝜖, 𝜖 ′. The core idea is to use
the selfish mining strategy [22, 24, 29, 51, 57] to construct an attack
that invalidates the equilibrium property. This kind of attack was
used also in [27] as argument for the tightness of “chain quality"
(chain quality refers to the fraction of the blocks in the public ledger
that belong to the adversary). Without loss of generality, we will
assume that the reward of each block is the same and equal to 𝑤
(the negative result carries trivially to the general case).
The result is in agreement with [13, 24] and an argument regard-
ing incentive compatibility of Bitcoin presented in [53]. However
it seems to contradict the result from [38], which shows that in a
“strategic-release game” that describes Bitcoin, honest strategy is
Nash equilibrium when the adversary controls a small coalition.
This difference arises because that model assumes that all honest
miners act as a single miner which implies that when an honest
participant produces a block, all the other honest participants adopt
this block, something that does not happen in our setting where
the adversary is assumed to have network dominance. Note that
in [27, 53] and in our case the adversary has the advantage that it
can always deliver its block first and the honest participants adopt
the first block they receive. As a result, the blocks of the adversary
never become dropped in a case when both the adversary and an
honest participant produce a block during a round.
Theorem 3.5. Let 𝑡 ∈ {1, ..., 𝑛 − 1} and 𝑡 ′ < min{𝑛/2, 𝑡 + 1}.
Then for any 𝜖 + 𝜖 ′ <
𝑡 ′
𝑛 − 𝑡 ′
· (1 − 𝛿 ′) − 𝑡 ′
𝑛
· (1 + 𝛿 ′′) · (1 + 𝑠), for
some 𝛿 ′, 𝛿 ′′ close to zero, where 𝑠 the expected number of solutions per
round, following Bitcoin with fixed target in a synchronous setting is
not a (𝑡, 𝜖, 𝜖 ′)-EVP according to the utility function relative rewards
(Def. 2.2).
Now we will describe what happens when we remove the as-
sumption that each block gives a fixed flat reward.
3.1 When Transactions Contribute to the
Rewards
In our analysis until now we assume that each block gives a fixed
reward. But what does it happen when the rewards come also from
the transactions included in the blocks?
At this point following [12, 27] we consider that the inputs which
the environment gives to the participants are transactions. A trans-
action can contribute to the rewards of a participant in the following
two ways: i) it gives transaction fees to the participant who includes
it in the block it produces ii) it gives the declared amount to the
recipient of the transaction. These extra sources of rewards open
the door to deviations that could give to the adversary higher utility
compared to following 𝐻𝑇 . Some examples are some attacks de-
scribed in [17, 45]. In our setting these attacks reflect the following
scenario: the environment makes some of the corrupted partici-
pants recipients of an amount of Bitcoins in some transactions that
are invalid in the longest chain and valid in a smaller chain. Thus
the adversary may have incentives to deviate by extending the
smaller chain. These observations agree with [12] that describes
some distributions of inputs which make Bitcoin not incentive com-
patible. Another related work that studies incentives in proof of
work blockchain protocols (and specifically in Ethereum [2]) when
we take into account transaction rewards is [56].
4 MINING POOLS AND CENTRALIZATION
In this section we extend our setting and we take into account also
an additional cost to prepare the contents of a block. Recall that in
Bitcoin transactions are collected, verified and organized in a list,
and subsequently processed into an authenticated data structure (a
Merkle tree). Subsequently the root of the tree together with some
additional information forms the proof of work instance that is
used to repeatedly query the Random Oracle.
We capture this as a tangible cost in the following way: (i) each
participant asks the Transaction Oracle one query per round and
incurs cost 𝑐bk per round for processing transactions. Note that
𝑐bk will only be charged once in a round, something that reflects
the fact that one need not repeat the block content structuring
every time a a proof of work hash query (query to the Random
Oracle) is attempted (on the other hand, we do charge 𝑐bk once per
round, reflecting the fact that new transactions will be continuously
processed). (ii) when a pool 𝑇 is created, then only the pool leader
of this coalition asks the Transaction Oracle and incurs 𝑐bk per
round. The latter captures the fact that when a set of transactions
has been processed by the pool leader of a pool, then it can be used
by all the members of the pool. Note that in the case of Random
Oracle queries, this does not happen because joining a pool does
not reduce the queries it has to pose and the cost of the electricity
these queries incur.
We next introduce the following strategy which deviates from
the Bitcoin protocol.
Definition 4.1. For some 𝑃𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 , the protocol strategy 𝑀𝑖 is
divided in two protocols: (i) participant 𝑃𝑖 is the mining pool leader,
collects transactions, processes them and then sends the POW
78
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
instance 𝑥𝑝 to all participants to work on (including itself), (ii)
participant 𝑃 𝑗 for all 𝑗 , receives the instance 𝑥𝑝 and executes the
main proof of work main loop. Let 𝑐bk be 𝑐bk multiplied by the
number of rounds a block needed to be produced. We will assume
that the reward 𝑤 per block is so high that with overwhelming
probability for every block it holds𝑤 > 𝑐bk.
When a block is produced and 𝑐bk is not higher than block’s
reward𝑤 (which happens with overwhelming probability) then 𝑃𝑖
issues payments equally to all participants (recall we are in the flat
model where all participants have the same computational power)
while retaining for itself a reward 𝑤/𝑛 + 𝑐bk − 𝑐bk/𝑛. If 𝑐bk > 𝑤
then 𝑃𝑖 retains𝑤 for itself.
If after a successful round no payment to some participant 𝑃 𝑗 ≠
𝑃𝑖 is provided by 𝑃𝑖 , participant 𝑃 𝑗 switches to regular mining, i.e.,
operates identically to the standard Bitcoin protocol. In addition, if
a participant 𝑃 𝑗 produces a block that does not belong to the pool
(uses a different POW instance 𝑥𝑝 from what suggested by 𝑃𝑖 ) then
it is excluded from the pool. Note that with this protocol allocation
all blocks in the blockchain may be produced by participant 𝑃𝑖 .
At this point we prove that following the above “single-mining-
pool” strategy𝑀𝑖 for any 𝑃𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 is an EVP. This holds even when
the cost to prepare the content of a block is much lower compared
to the cost of mining. The intuition behind the following theorem is
that the participants (i) have the same expected rewards when they
follow 𝑀𝑖 (and mine for the pool) and when they mine alone. (ii)
when they mine for the pool, then they share the cost of processing
transactions until the last block of the pool is produced (after that
it is paid exclusively by the pool leader). To be more precise, 𝑐bk is
paid only by the pool leader during each round, but when a block
is produced, the pool leader retains the cost that it incurred before
sharing block’s reward. So given that𝑤 is higher than the cost of
processing transactions 𝑐bk with overwhelming probability, this
has the same effect as all the members share the cost.
Theorem 4.2. Let us assume that 𝑐bk < 𝑐 · 𝑞 and that there exists
𝜙 such that 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 · 𝜙 . Then for every 𝛿, 𝑙 such that 𝑙 ∈ (0, 𝑟^ ),
𝛿 ∈ (0, 𝑙 ·^
2· (𝑟−𝑙 ·^/2) ) and 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 · 𝜙 · (1 − 𝛿) following “single-
mining-pool” strategy 𝑀𝑖 for any 𝑃𝑖 ∈ 𝑆 is an (𝑛 − 1, 4·𝛿
1−2·𝜙 , (𝑙 · ^ ·
𝑠 · (1 + 𝛿) · 1
4
+ 1) · 𝑤 − 𝑐bk)-EVP according to the utility function
absolute rewards minus absolute cost (Def. 2.2).
We note that the multiplicative parameter 𝜖 = 4·𝛿
1−2·𝜙 is related
to how much the adversary can gain by dissolving its pool at the
first round and following standard Bitcoin. The additive parameter
𝜖 ′ = (𝑙 · ^ · 𝑠 · (1 + 𝛿) · 1
4
+ 1) · 𝑤 − 𝑐bk is related to how much
the adversary can gain by betraying its pool during the execution
and either not issuing payments or producing a block that does not
belong to the pool.
Proof. We consider two cases w.r.t. the strategy𝑀𝑖 . In the first,
the adversarial coalition 𝑇 with 𝑡 ′ ∈ {1, . . . 𝑛 − 1} participants does
not include participant 𝑃𝑖 . In the second, the adversarial coalition
includes participant 𝑃𝑖 . For simplicity, we will assume that if the
pool leader dissolves the pool, then it will not create it again, and
also if a member is excluded from the pool or abandons the pool,
then it will not join it again.
The adversarial coalition includes 𝑃𝑖 . In this case the alternative
strategies of the coalition are the following: (i) the coalition dis-
solves its pool at the first round and mines on its own. Note that
it can follow an arbitrary strategy and it is not restricted to follow
the Bitcoin protocol when it dissolves its pool. The coalition who
follows this strategy will be denoted by𝐴1. (ii) the coalition follows
𝑀𝑖 until a round 𝑟
∗
that is successful for the pool at which the ad-
versarial coalition “betrays” the pool by not issuing the payments of
the honest participants. At this point the pool is dissolved because
the honest participants abandon the pool according to 𝑀𝑖 . The
coalition who follows this strategy will be denoted by 𝐴2,𝑟 ∗ . Note
that the case where the coalition does not issue the payment of a
subset 𝑆0 of the honest participants is captured by the case where
the adversarial coalition 𝑇 includes all the participants except 𝑆0.
Observe that when all the participants follow𝑀𝑖 and mine for
the pool, then they have the same local chain.
Let 𝜙 ∈ (0, 1) such that 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 · 𝜙 , 𝑙 ∈ (0, 𝑟^ ) and 𝛿 ∈
(0, 𝑙 ·^
2· (𝑟−𝑙 ·^/2) ) such that 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 · 𝜙 · (1 − 𝛿). Recall that 𝑟 is
the number of rounds the environment runs the execution.
Then we want to prove that for any 𝑟 -admissible environmentZ
and adversary 𝐴 that follows a strategy described in (i),(ii) it holds
𝑈max
𝑇 (E ′
Z,A ) ≤ 𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) · (1 + 4 · 𝛿1 ·
1
1 − 2 · 𝜙 )
+ 𝑙 · ^ · 𝑠 · (1 + 𝛿) ·𝑤 · 1
4
+𝑤
with overwhelming probability in the security parameter ^ . Recall
that 𝑠 is the expected number of blocks produced by all participants
during a round and is very close to zero in the synchronous model.
In this case 𝐻𝑇 is the coalition 𝑇 that follows𝑀𝑖 . Let 𝑌Z,A be the
above condition.
Now we will prove that for every adversary 𝐴1 that follows
(i) 𝑌Z,𝐴1
is satisfied. If we assume that 𝑐bk < 𝑐 · 𝑞 then we can
prove 𝑌Z,𝐴1
for every adversary𝐴1 in the same way as the proof of
Theorem 6.2 (we omit the details because we will present this proof
in the next section). The approximation multiplicative parameter
𝜖 in this case is 4 · 𝛿1 ·
1
1 − 2 · 𝜙 instead of 4 · 𝛿1 ·
1
1 − 𝜙
that is the
approximation parameter in Theorem 6.2. This happens because in
this case the utility of the adversary includes the cost of verifying
transactions per round.
The intuition why this proof holds is the following: when the
coalition follows𝑀𝑖 , it will take in expectation the same rewards
from the blocks it will produce as mining on its own following the
Bitcoin protocol, and it will incur at most the same cost. Observe
that when it follows𝑀𝑖 , the cost of verifying transactions will be
shared among all the members of the pool and it will not get paid
exclusively by the coalition as happens when it mines on its own.
Also, as it holds 𝑐 < 𝑝 · 𝑤 · 𝜙 · (1 − 𝛿), when the coalition mines
on its own, the most profitable strategy is to ask all the hashing
queries and follow the Bitcoin protocol (except the following: if
it produces more than one block during a round, it sends all the
blocks to the Diffuse Functionality ,as happens with fruits in the
Fruitchain protocol).
Note that even if 𝑐bk < 𝑐 ·𝑞 does not hold, then againwe can prove
a similar result where the multiplicative approximation parameter
𝜖 = 0 and the additive approximation parameter 𝜖 ′ = 2 · 𝛿 · 𝑠 · 𝑟 ·𝑤 .
79
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
Now will prove that for every adversary 𝐴2,𝑟 ∗ that follows (ii)
and betrays its pool by not issuing the condition payments of the
honest parties at round 𝑟∗ the condition 𝑌Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ is satisfied.
Until the beginning of round 𝑟∗ the adversary 𝐴2,𝑟 ∗ follows the
same strategy as 𝐻𝑇 (following 𝑀𝑖 ) and also all the parties have
the same local chain. Thus until the beginning of round 𝑟∗, for the
same randomness, 𝐴2,𝑟 ∗ and 𝐻𝑇 have the same profit according to
any honest participant’s local chain.
Let E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ ,𝑟 ∗ be the execution E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ restricted to rounds
𝑟∗, . . . 𝑟 and E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ ,−𝑟 ∗ be the execution E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ restricted to
rounds 1, . . . 𝑟∗ − 1.
By the above observation we can conclude that:
(1) 𝑈max
𝑇
(E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ ) = 𝑋 + 𝑋1 (𝑟∗) where we have 𝑋1 (𝑟∗) =
𝑈max
𝑇
(E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ ,𝑟 ∗ ) and
𝑋 = 𝑈max
𝑇
(E ′
Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ ,−𝑟 ∗ ) = 𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,HT ,−𝑟 ∗ )
(2) 𝑈min
𝑇
(EZ,𝐻𝑇
) = 𝑋+𝑋2 (𝑟∗)where𝑋2 (𝑟∗) = 𝑈min
𝑇
(EZ,𝐻𝑇
, 𝑟∗)
At this point we treat the random variables as functions that have
as input the random coins of the execution and output the maxi-
mum (among honest participant’s local chains) utility of 𝐴2,𝑟 ∗ and
minimum utility of 𝐻𝑇 respectively. Recall that when the coalition
follows𝑀𝑖 until round 𝑟
∗
, then at the beginning of round 𝑟∗ all the
participants have the same local chains. In addition the coalition
can deliver its block first, so the maximum and minimum utility for
rounds 𝑟∗, . . . 𝑟 are the same.
Thus if we prove that the event𝑋1 (𝑟∗) −𝑋2 (𝑟∗) ≤ 𝑙 ·^ ·𝑠 · (1+𝛿) ·
𝑤 · 1
4
+𝑤 denoted by𝐷 (𝑟∗) happens with overwhelming probability
then 𝑌Z,𝐴
2,𝑟∗ is satisfied.
• It holds with overwhelming probability that 𝑋1 (𝑟∗) = 𝑤 ·
(𝑦 (𝑟∗) + 1) − (𝑐bk + 𝑐 · 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′) · (𝑟 − 𝑟∗ + 1) where 𝑦 (𝑟∗) is the
number of the successful queries for 𝑇 after round 𝑟∗.
• It holds with overwhelming probability that 𝑋2 (𝑟∗) ≥ 𝑐bk +
𝑤 ·𝑦′(𝑟∗) · 𝑡 ′𝑛 −𝑐bk · (𝑟−𝑟∗+1)−𝑐 ·𝑞 ·𝑡 ′ · (𝑟−𝑟∗+1) where𝑦′(𝑟∗)
are the number of successful queries for all the members
of the pool after round 𝑟∗. Note that 𝑦′(𝑟∗) = 𝑥 (𝑟∗) + 𝑦 (𝑟∗)
where 𝑥 (𝑟∗) are the number of successful queries for the
honest parties after round 𝑟∗. Recall that when a block is
produced by the pool, then according to𝑀𝑖 , the coalition’s
reward from this block is 𝑐bk (which is equal to 𝑐bk multiplied
by the number of rounds the block needed to be produced)
plus (𝑤 − 𝑐bk) · 𝑡
′
𝑛 . We have assumed that𝑤 is higher than
𝑐bk with overwhelming probability. Thus the coalition’s re-
wards from the block at round 𝑟∗ are at least 𝑐bk ≥ 𝑐bk with
overwhelming probability.
As a result with overwhelming probability the following event
holds
𝑋1 (𝑟∗) − 𝑋2 (𝑟∗) ≤ (𝑦 (𝑟∗) − 𝑦′(𝑟∗) 𝑡
′
𝑛
) ·𝑤 +𝑤 − 𝑐bk
= (𝑦 (𝑟∗) · 𝑛 − 𝑡 ′
𝑛
− 𝑥 (𝑟∗) · 𝑡
′
𝑛
) ·𝑤 +𝑤 − 𝑐bk
Observe that when the coalition follows 𝑀𝑖 after 𝑟
∗
, it takes a
fraction 𝑡 ′/𝑛 from every block produced by any participant. On the
other hand, when it mines alone, it gets a reward only from the
blocks it produces but when it produces a block retains its whole
reward. Note that the above is an upper bound because when the
coalition follows 𝑀𝑖 , then it will share the cost of verifying the
transactions.
If we show that for every 𝑟∗ ∈ {1, . . . , 𝑟 } the following event
denoted by𝑉 (𝑟∗) happens with overwhelming probability then we
conclude that for every 𝑟∗ ∈ {1, . . . , 𝑟 } the event 𝐷 (𝑟∗) happens
with overwhelming probability :
𝑦 (𝑟∗) · 𝑛 − 𝑡 ′
𝑛
− 𝑥 (𝑟∗) · 𝑡
′
𝑛
≤ 𝑙 · ^ · 𝑠 · (1 + 𝛿) · 1
4
.
• When 𝑟∗ > 𝑟 − 𝑙 · ^ − 1 then 𝑦 (𝑟∗) ≤ 𝑦 (𝑟 − 𝑙 · ^ − 1) with
probability 1 and by Chernoff bound we have𝑦 (𝑟 −𝑙 ·^−1) ≤
𝑙 · ^ · 𝑝 · 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · (1 + 𝛿) with overwhelming probability in 𝑙 · ^ .
Thus the event 𝑦 (𝑟∗) · 𝑛−𝑡 ′𝑛 ≤ 𝑙 ·^ ·𝑠 · (1+𝛿) · 1
4
happens with
overwhelming probability. Note that 𝑡 ′ · (𝑛−𝑡 ′) is maximized
for 𝑡 ′ = 𝑛/2.
• When 𝑟∗ ≤ 𝑟 − 𝑙 · ^ then by Chernoff bound it holds with
overwhelming probability in 𝑟 − 𝑟∗ and thus in ^
𝑦 (𝑟∗) · 𝑛 − 𝑡 ′
𝑛
− 𝑥 ′(𝑟∗) · 𝑡
′
𝑛
≤ (𝑟 − 𝑟∗) · 𝑝 · 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · (1 + 𝛿) · 𝑛 − 𝑡 ′
𝑛
− (𝑟 − 𝑟∗) · 𝑝 · 𝑞 · (𝑛 − 𝑡 ′) · (1 − 𝛿) 𝑡
′
𝑛
≤ 2 · 𝛿 · 𝑠 · (𝑟 − 𝑟∗) · 1
4
≤ 𝑙 · ^ · 𝑠 · (1 + 𝛿) · 1
4
Recall that 𝛿 ∈ (0, 𝑙 ·^
2· (𝑟−𝑙 ·^/2) ).
The adversarial coalition does not include 𝑃𝑖 . This case is captured
by the previous case (where the adversarial coalition includes 𝑃𝑖 )
because (i) when a member produces a block that does not belong
to the pool, it is excluded from the pool (ii) the pool leader does
not earn extra rewards compared to the members. Moreover, with
overwhelming probability the profit of the members is (a) the same
as pool leader’s profit, if a block is produced at the last round of
the execution (b) higher than pool leader’s profit, when the last
block of the pool was produced before the last round. This happens
because until the round the last block is produced, the pool leader
pays 𝑐bk (because it asks the Transaction Oracle), but when a block
is produced, before it issues the payments, it retains an amount
equal to the cost of processing transactions it has incurred (so it
is the same as not paying anything). After the last block, it pays
𝑐bk for each round and it cannot retain it as no block is produced
(compared to the members that do not pay 𝑐bk).
□
5 WEAK FAIRNESS AND EVP
In this section we describe a property, called “(𝑡, 𝛿)-weak fairness”,
which is sufficient for proving that a protocol is EVP when the
utility is based on relative rewards (cf. Def.2.2). This property can
aid in the design of EVP protocols.
A protocol will satisfy “(𝑡, 𝛿)-weak fairness" property when with
overwhelming probability the following hold: firstly when the ad-
versary (which controls at most 𝑡 participants) deviates, then the
fraction of the rewards that the set of all the honest participants
gets is at least (1 − 𝛿) multiplied by its relative cost and secondly
when the adversary is𝐻𝑇 , which means that it follows the protocol,
80
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
any set of participants gets at least (1− 𝛿) multiplied by its relative
cost.
Definition 5.1. A blockchain protocol satisfies (𝑡, 𝛿)-weak fair-
ness if for any 𝑟 -admissible environmentZ, for any PPT adversary
A which controls a set 𝑇 with at most 𝑡 participants and for any
𝑗 : 𝑃 𝑗 ∈ 𝑆 \𝑇 , where 𝑆 the set of all the participants, we have with
overwhelming probability in the security parameter ^:
• 𝑅
𝑗
𝑆\𝑇 (E
′
Z,A ) ≥ (1−𝛿) ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ·𝑅 𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A )
• for any subset 𝑆𝐻 ⊆ 𝑆 it holds 𝑅
𝑗
𝑆𝐻
(EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ≥ (1 − 𝛿) ·∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆𝐻 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) · 𝑅 𝑗
𝑆
(EZ,𝐻𝑇
) where 𝛿 ∈ [0, 1).
Note that
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆𝐻 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)/∑𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) represents
the computational power of 𝑆𝐻
7
, because honest participants and
𝐻𝑇 ask all the queries during each round. In addition it holds∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆
𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ≠ 0
as the execution lasts at least one round. We do not divide with
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(EZ,𝐻𝑇
) as we do not exclude the case that is equal to zero.
Our property is weaker than (𝑇, 𝛿)-approximate fairness w.r.t. 𝜌
attackers defined in [53] and ideal chain quality defined in [27].
The property (𝑇, 𝛿)-approximate fairness w.r.t. 𝜌 attackers de-
fined in [53] says that in any sufficient long window of the chain
with 𝑇 blocks, any set of honest participants with computational
power 𝜙 will get with overwhelming probability at least (1 − 𝛿) · 𝜙
fraction of the blocks regardless what the adversary with a fraction
of computational power at most 𝜌 does.
Ideal chain quality defined in [27] says that any coalition of
participants (regardless the mining strategy they follow) will get a
percentage of blocks in the blockchain that is proportional to their
collective computational power.
Our property is weaker than (𝑇0, 𝛿)-approximate fairness w.r.t.
𝑡/𝑛 attackers (𝑛 is the number of all the participants)
8
defined in [53]
and ideal chain quality in [27] in the sense that when the adversary
deviates from the protocol we demand that only the whole set of
the honest participants gets a fraction of rewards at least (1 − 𝛿)
multiplied by its relative cost, not all the subsets of the honest
participants. In the same way our definition is also weaker than
race-free property defined in [14]
9
.
According to the following theorem when a protocol satisfies the
(𝑡, 𝛿)-weak fairness property and the total rewards are greater than
zero with overwhelming probability, then following the protocol is
EVP under an adversary that controls at most 𝑡 participants. This
7
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆𝐻 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)/∑𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) = (𝑐 · 𝑞 · 𝑟 · 𝑡𝐻 )/(𝑐 · 𝑞 · 𝑟 · 𝑛) where
𝑡𝐻 the number of participants of 𝑆𝐻
8
To be precise it is weaker than fairness under the restriction that the environment
performs the protocol so many rounds that with overwhelming probability any honest
participant has a local chain of length at least𝑇0 . Note that this happens because in
our definition we have not used𝑇0 as parameter.
9
Note that when a cryptocurrency is pseudonymous and not anonymous then it is
difficult to secure that every subset of honest participants will take the appropriate
percentage of the blocks, because maybe it is the case where the adversary cannot
decrease much the percentage of the blocks that belongs to the whole set of the
honest participants, but it can act against a specific participant with some characteris-
tics revealed from the graph of the transactions. For example there are some works
that analyze the statistical properties of the Bitcoin transaction graph and describe
identification attacks in Bitcoin, [49, 55]
theorem will be also used in order to prove that the Fruitchain
protocol [53] is EVP when the utility is based on relative rewards.
Theorem 5.2. When a protocol satisfies (𝑡, 𝛿)-weak fairness and
in addition for any 𝑗 : 𝑃 𝑗 ∈ 𝑆 \𝑇 , for any PPT adversary A which
controls a set𝑇 with at most 𝑡 participants and for any 𝑟 -admissible en-
vironmentZ it holds 𝑅 𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) > 0with overwhelming probability
in the security parameter ^ , then following the protocol is (𝑡, 0, 𝛿)-EVP
according to the utility function relative rewards (def.2.2).
Proof. We choose an arbitrary 𝑟 -admissible environment Z,
where ^ is the security parameter and an arbitrary adversary A
static that is PPT and it controls a set 𝑇 that it includes 𝑡 ′ ≤ 𝑡
participants. We will examine two executions of the blockchain
protocol with the same environmentZ, but with different adversary
: In the first execution EZ,𝐻𝑇
the adversary is𝐻𝑇 and in the second
execution E ′
Z,A the adversary is A.
We will prove that with overwhelming probability in the security
parameter for any 𝑗 : 𝑃 𝑗 honest we have:
𝑈
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) =
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A )
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′Z,A )
(1)
≤
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) + 𝛿 ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) (2)
By (𝑡, 𝛿)-weak fairness and by the fact that for any 𝑗 : 𝑃 𝑗 honest it
holds with overwhelming probability 𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) > 0 we have the
following result:
for any 𝑗 : 𝑃 𝑗 honest it holds with overwhelming probability in
the security parameter
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆\𝑇 (E
′
Z,A ) ≥ (1 − 𝛿) ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) · 𝑅 𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) ⇒
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) ≤ 𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) · (1 − (1 − 𝛿) ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ) ⇒
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) ≤ 𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) · (
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)
− (1 − 𝛿) ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ) ⇒
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A )
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′Z,A )
≤
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) + 𝛿 ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)
Note that with overwhelming probability 𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) > 0 and as a
result
𝑈
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) =
𝑅
𝑗
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A )
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′Z,A )
(3)
By weak fairness and by the fact that it holds with overwhelming
probability 𝑅min
𝑆
(EZ,HT ) > 0 we have the following result:
𝑈𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ≥ (1 − 𝛿) ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) (4)
81
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
By equations (1), (4) we have that with overwhelming probabil-
ity in the security parameter
𝑈max
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) −𝑈𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ≤
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) +
𝛿 ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆\𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) − (1 − 𝛿) ·
∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑇 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)∑
𝑙 :𝑃𝑙 ∈𝑆 𝐶𝑙 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)
≤ 𝛿
□
6 INCENTIVES IN THE FRUITCHAIN
PROTOCOL
Abstraction of the Fruitchain Protocol. In the Fruitchain protocol
[53] the participants use a hash function modelled as a random
oracle. The number of the queries to the random oracle by each
participant during a round is bounded by 𝑞. Let the total number
of the participants be 𝑛. Each query to the random oracle can give
with probability 𝑝 a block and with probability 𝑝 𝑓 a fruit, where
𝑝 𝑓 is assumed to be greater than 𝑝 . This is achieved via the 2-for-1
POW technique of [27]. At the beginning of each round, when the
honest participants are activated, they “receive" the fruits and the
blocks from the Diffuse Functionality, they choose the chain that
they will try to extend and they include in the block they try to
produce “a fingerprint" of all the “recent" fruits (as defined in [53])
that have not been included in the blockchain yet. Then they ask the
random oracle 𝑞 queries. When an honest participant finds a fruit
or a block, it gives it to the Diffuse Functionality and it continues
asking the remaining queries. Even if it finds more than one fruit
during a round, it gives all the fruits to the Diffuse Functionality.
The adversary is activated at the end and it can ask 𝑡 ′ · 𝑞 queries,
where 𝑡 ′ is the number of the participants that it controls.
We consider that the rewards come only from the fruit
10
and
the difficulty in mining a block is fixed. In our case each query to
the random oracle has a cost 𝑐 . In the proofs we will assume that
the adversary is static, the model is synchronous and the Diffuse
Functionality works as [27], and each fruit gives reward equal to
𝑤 𝑓 .
Relative rewards: According to the following theorem if the ad-
versary controls fewer than half of the participants and wants to
maximize its relative rewards which means that its utility is based
on relative rewards (Def. 2.2), then following the Fruitchain pro-
tocol is EVP. This theorem allows us to understand in a formal
way how mining simultaneously fruits and blocks can eliminate
the impact of selfish mining [24] on the incentive compatibility
of the protocol. We note that the core advantage stems from the
2-for-1 POW technique used for simultaneous mining which was
initially proposed for the mitigation of selfish mining in [27] in the
context of achieving Byzantine agreement for honest majority and
later was adapted in [53] for a similar purpose in the context of fair
blockchains.
10
Note that in the Fruitchain protocol [53] the fairness property holds for the fruits;
actual blocks are possibly still vulnerable to selfishmining attacks [24]. So if we consider
that also the blocks give a flat reward then we cannot use the fairness property proved
in [53].
Theorem 6.1. Let 𝛿 ∈ (0, 1) and𝑇0 such that the Fruitchain proto-
col satisfies (𝑇0, 𝛿)-approximate fairness property. Then the Fruitchain
protocol is (𝑛/2 − 1, 0, 𝛿)-EVP according to the utility function rel-
ative rewards (Def. 2.2), under an 𝑟 -admissible environment where
𝑟 ≥ 𝑇0/(𝑝 𝑓 · ( 𝑛
2
+ 1) · (1 − 𝛿) · 𝑞).
The proof uses Chernoff bound and Theorem 5.2. Note that for
any 𝛿 ∈ (0, 1) and appropriate 𝑇0 the Fruitchain protocol satisfies
(𝑇0, 𝛿)-approximate fairness property (Subsection 4.2 in [53])
11
.
Proof. As the Fruitchain protocol satisfies (𝑇0, 𝛿)-approximate
fairness property when the adversary controls at most𝑛/2−1 partic-
ipants, then it satisfies also (𝑛/2−1, 𝛿)-weak fairness property under
the restriction that the environment performs the protocol so many
rounds that with overwhelming probability (in the security parame-
ter) any honest participant has a chain of at least𝑇0 fruits. Note that
by chain growth rate proved in [53] when 𝑟 ≥ 𝑇0
𝑝𝑓 · ( 𝑛
2
+1) ·(1−𝛿) ·𝑞
and the adversary controls at most 𝑛/2 − 1 participants, then in-
deed it holds that with overwhelming probability any honest par-
ticipant has a chain of at least 𝑇0 fruits. In addition, by Chernoff
bound and by the fact that the execution lasts at least one round, it
holds with overwhelming probability in ^ the following: for any
𝑗 : 𝑃 𝑗 honest, for any PPT static adversary A that controls at most
𝑛/2 − 1 participants and for any 𝑟 -admissible environment Z with
𝑅
𝑗
𝑆
(E ′
Z,A ) > 0. So by Theorem 5.2 we have that the Fruitchain
protocol is (𝑛/2 − 1, 0, 𝛿)-EVP under an 𝑟 -admissible environment
where 𝑟 ≥ 𝑇0
𝑝𝑓 · ( 𝑛
2
+1) ·(1−𝛿) ·𝑞 . □
Remark 5. The above theorem holds when we take into account
also the transaction fees from each fruit and at the end of the execution
we distribute evenly the total rewards among the miners of the fruits
(as assumed in [53]12).
Absolute rewards minus absolute cost: We will prove that the
Fruitchain [53] protocol in a synchronous setting is EVP according
to utility based on absolute rewards minus absolute cost (Def. 2.2)
if the adversary controls all but one participants, when the cost of
each query 𝑐 is small enough compared to the reward of each fruit
𝑤 𝑓 . Note that the smaller the cost of each query is, the better EVP
we have.
13
The intuition behind the proof is that (i) the rewards come from
the fruits that are produced by mining and (ii) the total number of
the fruits the adversary can produce is bounded (with overwhelm-
ing probability) whatever strategy it follows. So if the adversary
can have this number of fruits even if it follows the protocol, it has
no reason to deviate.
Theorem 6.2. Assume that each fruit gives a constant reward
and there exists 𝜙 ∈ (0, 1) such that 𝑐 < 𝑝 𝑓 · 𝑤 𝑓 · 𝜙 . Then for any
𝛿1 ∈ (0, 0.25), such that 𝑐 ≤ 𝑝 𝑓 ·𝑤 𝑓 · (1−𝛿1) ·𝜙 and 4 ·𝛿1 < 1−𝜙 the
Fruitchain protocol in a synchronous setting is (𝑛−1, 4 ·𝛿1/(1−𝜙), 0)-
EVP according to the utility function absolute rewards minus absolute
cost (Def. 2.2) .
11
In [53] the number of queries 𝑞 each participant can ask during each round is 1.
12
To be precise in [53] the rewards of each fruit are shared evenly among the miners
of the fruits included in a long enough preceding part of the chain.
13
Note that here synchronization does not affect how good the EVP is in contrast to
our theorems regarding Bitcoin with fixed target. This happens because when honest
participants find more than one fruit during a round, all of them can be included in
the chain eventually
82
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
Proof. In this setting the adversary again is PPT, static with
fixed cost, it controls a set of participants 𝑇 = {𝑃𝑖1 , ..., 𝑃𝑖𝑡′ } ⊆
{𝑃1, ..., 𝑃𝑛} = 𝑆 and chooses in the beginning the number 𝑥𝑚 of
the questions that each participant controlled by the adversary 𝑃𝑖𝑚
will not ask during each round of the execution.
Let an arbitrary 𝛿1 ∈ (0, 0.25) such that 𝑐 ≤ 𝑝 𝑓 ·𝑤 𝑓 · (1−𝛿1) ·𝜙 and
4 ·𝛿1 < 1−𝜙 . We choose also an arbitrary 𝑟 -admissible environment
Z, where ^ is the security parameter and an arbitrary adversary
A static with fixed cost that is PPT and it has corrupted a set
𝑇 with 𝑡 ′ participants, where 𝑡 ′ ∈ {1, ..., 𝑛 − 1}. Note that if the
adversary controls zero participants then the proof is trivial because
adversary’s utility is always zero. Let 𝑥 =
∑𝑡 ′
𝑚=1 𝑥𝑚 be the total
number of the queries that all the corrupted participants collectively
do not ask during each round. Note that𝑥 is a constant, not a random
variable, as it is determined in the beginning by the static adversary.
It holds 0 ≤ 𝑥 ≤ 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′.
We will examine two executions of the Fruitchain protocol with
the same environment, but with different adversary: in the first
execution EZ,𝐻𝑇
the adversary is 𝐻𝑇 and in the second execution
E ′
Z,A the adversary is A. Note that the last complete round of
the executions is 𝑟 .
Firstly we have:
𝑈𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ≥ 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · 𝑝 𝑓 · 𝑟 · (1 − 𝛿1) ·𝑤 𝑓 − 𝑐 · 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · 𝑟
≥ 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · 𝑝 𝑓 · 𝑟 · (1 − 𝛿1) ·𝑤 𝑓 · (1 − 𝜙) > 0
with overwhelming probability in ^.
The above equation is proved by Chernoff bound and taking into
account that all the fruits produced by 𝑇 will be included in the
local chain of all the honest participants at the end of the round 𝑟 .
In addition, the adversary cannot earn rewards for more fruits
than that it has produced. Moreover 𝑐 ≤ 𝑝 𝑓 ·𝑤 𝑓 · (1 − 𝛿1) · 𝜙 . As a
result by Chernoff bound
𝑈max
𝑇 (E ′
Z,A ) ≤ (𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ − 𝑥) · 𝑝 𝑓 · 𝑟 · (1 + 𝛿1) ·𝑤 𝑓 − 𝑐 · (𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ − 𝑥) · 𝑟
≤ 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · 𝑝 𝑓 · 𝑟 · (1 + 𝛿1) ·𝑤 𝑓 − 𝑐 · 𝑞 · 𝑡 ′ · 𝑟
with overwhelming probability in ^.
As a result
𝑈max
𝑇
(E ′
Z,A ) −𝑈𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
) ≤ ( 1 + 𝛿1
1 − 𝛿1
− 1) · 1
1 − 𝜙
·𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)
≤ 4 · 𝛿1 ·
1
1 − 𝜙
·𝑈min
𝑇 (EZ,𝐻𝑇
)
with overwhelming probability in ^. □
Remark 6. The assumption that there exists 𝜙 ∈ (0, 1) such that
𝑐 < 𝑝 𝑓 ·𝑤 𝑓 · 𝜙 means that the reward of each block is high enough
to compensate the miners for the cost of the mining. Finally note
that trivially if we consider that 𝑐 = 0 then the assumption of the
above theorem holds for 𝜙 close to zero and the utility is just absolute
rewards (Def. 2.2).
7 CONCLUSION
In this work we introduced a new concept of approximate equilib-
rium, that is suited for the setting where participants in a distributed
system seek to offset costs with virtual payoffs. We showed a num-
ber of results for the Bitcoin and Fruitchain blockchain protocols
establishing EVP strategies for various types of utilities. We exam-
ined two major classes of utility functions, absolute and relative
rewards and we established both positive and negative results for
these blockchain protocols. Among others, we showed that the
Bitcoin protocol admits a strategy as an EVP that fully centralizes
all miners to a single mining pool.
A number of interesting directions are motivated by the present
work. The first one is devising protocols that are EVPs against
coalitions who adaptively fluctuate their mining resources, while
the protocol itself adjusts mining difficulty to accomodate an ever
fluctuating population of participants. A second one is to investi-
gate suitable modifications for the Bitcoin protocol that prevent
centralization to a single mining pool as an EVP strategy.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The researchwas partially supported byH2020 project PRIVILEDGE
#780477 and was conducted at the Blockchain Technology Labo-
ratory at the University of Edinburgh which was established by
funding of IOHK.
8 APPENDICES
A CHERNOFF BOUNDS
Let 𝑋𝑖 : 𝑖 ∈ {1, ..., 𝑛} be mutually independent Boolean random
variables and ∀𝑖𝑃𝑟 (𝑋𝑖 = 1) = 𝑝 . Let 𝑋 =
∑𝑛
𝑖=1 𝑋𝑖 and ` = 𝑝𝑛. Then
we have for any 𝛿 ∈ (0, 1]
𝑃𝑟 (𝑋 ≤ (1 − 𝛿)`) ≤ 𝑒−𝛿
2`/2
and
𝑃𝑟 (𝑋 ≥ (1 + 𝛿)`) ≤ 𝑒−𝛿
2`/3
B NEGLIGIBLE FUNCTIONS AND
PROBABILITY EVENTS
Definition B.1 (Negligible function). A function 𝑓 (𝑥) : N→ R+ is
negligible in 𝑥 if for every positive polynomial 𝑔(𝑥) there is 𝑛0 ∈ N
such that for every 𝑥 integer such that 𝑥 > 𝑛0 it holds 𝑓 (𝑥) < 1
𝑔 (𝑥) .
An example of a negligible function is 1/2𝑥 .
Definition B.2 (Overwhelming function). A function 𝑓 (𝑥) : N→
R+ is overwhelming in 𝑥 when 1 − 𝑓 (𝑥) is negligible in 𝑥 .
When we say that an event happens with overwhelming proba-
bility in the security parameter, we mean that the probability with
which this event does not happen is negligible.
REFERENCES
[1] [n.d.]. Cloud Mining. https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Cloud_mining.
[2] [n.d.]. Ethereum. https://ethereum.org/en/.
[3] [n.d.]. Hash function. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function.
[4] 2007. Algorithmic Game Theory. Cambridge University Press. https://doi.org/10.
1017/CBO9780511800481 Nisan, N., Roughgarden, T., Tardos, E., & Vazirani, V.
(Eds.). doi:10.1017/CBO9780511800481.
[5] Ittai Abraham, Danny Dolev, Rica Gonen, and Joe Halpern. 2006. Distributed
Computing Meets Game Theory: Robust Mechanisms for Rational Secret Sharing
and Multiparty Computation. In Proceedings of the Twenty-fifth Annual ACM Sym-
posium on Principles of Distributed Computing (Denver, Colorado, USA) (PODC
’06). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 53–62. https://doi.org/10.1145/1146381.1146393
83
https://en.bitcoin.it/wiki/Cloud_mining
https://ethereum.org/en/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_function
https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511800481
https://doi.org/10.1017/CBO9780511800481
https://doi.org/10.1145/1146381.1146393
AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA Kiayias and Stouka
[6] Ittai Abraham, Dahlia Malkhi, Kartik Nayak, Ling Ren, and Alexander Spiegelman.
2016. Solidus: An Incentive-compatible Cryptocurrency Based on Permissionless
Byzantine Consensus. CoRR abs/1612.02916 (2016). arXiv:1612.02916 http:
//arxiv.org/abs/1612.02916
[7] Amitanand S. Aiyer, Lorenzo Alvisi, Allen Clement, Mike Dahlin, Jean-Philippe
Martin, and Carl Porth. 2005. BAR Fault Tolerance for Cooperative Services. In
Proceedings of the Twentieth ACM Symposium on Operating Systems Principles
(Brighton, United Kingdom) (SOSP ’05). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 45–58. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/1095810.1095816
[8] Nick Arnosti and S. MatthewWeinberg. 2018. Bitcoin: A Natural Oligopoly. CoRR
abs/1811.08572 (2018). arXiv:1811.08572 http://arxiv.org/abs/1811.08572
[9] Robert J. Aumann. 1959. Acceptable Points in General Cooperative n-Person Games.
Contributions to the Theory of Games (AM-40). Vol. 4. Albert William Tucker,
Robert Duncan Luce, Princeton: Princeton University Press, 287–324. Book DOI:
https://doi.org/10.1515/9781400882168.
[10] Moshe Babaioff, Shahar Dobzinski, Sigal Oren, and Aviv Zohar. 2012. On
Bitcoin and Red Balloons. In Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Elec-
tronic Commerce (Valencia, Spain) (EC ’12). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 56–73.
https://doi.org/10.1145/2229012.2229022
[11] Adam Back. 1997. Hashcash. http://www.cypherspace.org/hashcash.
[12] Christian Badertscher, Juan Garay, Ueli Maurer, Daniel Tschudi, and Vassilis
Zikas. 2018. But Why Does It Work? A Rational Protocol Design Treatment of
Bitcoin. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 2018, Jesper Buus Nielsen and
Vincent Rijmen (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 34–65.
[13] Suguman Bansal. 2016. Reasoning about incentive compatibility. POPL 2016
Student Research Competition.
[14] Iddo Bentov, Pavel Hubácek, Tal Moran, and Asaf Nadler. 2017. Tortoise and
Hares Consensus: the Meshcash Framework for Incentive-Compatible, Scalable
Cryptocurrencies. IACR Cryptology ePrint Archive 2017 (2017), 300. http://eprint.
iacr.org/2017/300
[15] B.Douglas Bernheim, Bezalel Peleg, and Michael D Whinston. 1987. Coalition-
Proof Nash Equilibria I. Concepts. Journal of Economic Theory 42, 1 (1987), 1 –
12. https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0531(87)90099-8
[16] Bruno Biais, Christophe Bisiere, Matthieu Bouvard, and Catherine Casamatta.
2018. The Blockchain Folk Theorem. Swiss Finance Institute Research Paper No.
17-75.
[17] Joseph Bonneau. 2016. Why Buy When You Can Rent? - Bribery Attacks on
Bitcoin-Style Consensus. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security - FC 2016
International Workshops, BITCOIN, VOTING, and WAHC, Christ Church, Barbados,
February 26, 2016, Revised Selected Papers (Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
Vol. 9604), Jeremy Clark, Sarah Meiklejohn, Peter Y. A. Ryan, Dan S. Wallach,
Michael Brenner, and Kurt Rohloff (Eds.). Springer, 19–26. https://doi.org/10.
1007/978-3-662-53357-4_2
[18] Lars Brünjes, Aggelos Kiayias, Elias Koutsoupias, and Aikaterini-Panagiota
Stouka. 2018. Reward Sharing Schemes for Stake Pools. CoRR abs/1807.11218
(2018). arXiv:1807.11218 http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11218
[19] Ran Canetti. 2000. Security and Composition of Multiparty Cryptographic Proto-
cols. Journal of Cryptology 13, 1 (01 Jan 2000), 143–202. https://doi.org/10.1007/
s001459910006
[20] Ran Canetti. 2000. Universally Composable Security: A New Paradigm for
Cryptographic Protocols. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2000/067. https:
//eprint.iacr.org/2000/067.
[21] R. Canetti. 2001. Universally Composable Security: A New Paradigm for Cryp-
tographic Protocols. In Proceedings of the 42Nd IEEE Symposium on Foundations
of Computer Science (FOCS ’01). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA,
136–145. http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=874063.875553
[22] Miles Carlsten, Harry Kalodner, S. Matthew Weinberg, and Arvind Narayanan.
2016. On the Instability of Bitcoin Without the Block Reward. In Proceedings
of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(Vienna, Austria) (CCS ’16). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 154–167. https://doi.org/
10.1145/2976749.2978408
[23] Cynthia Dwork and Moni Naor. 1993. Pricing via Processing or Combatting Junk
Mail. In Advances in Cryptology — CRYPTO’ 92, Ernest F. Brickell (Ed.). Springer
Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 139–147.
[24] Ittay Eyal and Emin Gün Sirer. 2014. Majority Is Not Enough: Bitcoin Mining Is
Vulnerable. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Nicolas Christin and
Reihaneh Safavi-Naini (Eds.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg,
436–454.
[25] Amos Fiat, Anna Karlin, Elias Koutsoupias, and Christos Papadimitriou. 2019.
Energy Equilibria in Proof-of-Work Mining. In Proceedings of the 2019 ACM
Conference on Economics and Computation (Phoenix, AZ, USA) (EC ’19). ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 489–502. https://doi.org/10.1145/3328526.3329630
[26] Juan Garay, Jonathan Katz, Ueli Maurer, Björn Tackmann, and Vassilis Zikas. 2013.
Rational Protocol Design: CryptographyAgainst Incentive-DrivenAdversaries. In
Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE 54th Annual Symposium on Foundations of Computer
Science (FOCS ’13). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 648–657.
https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2013.75
[27] Juan Garay, Aggelos Kiayias, and Nikos Leonardos. 2015. The Bitcoin Backbone
Protocol: Analysis and Applications. In Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT
2015, Elisabeth Oswald and Marc Fischlin (Eds.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg,
Berlin, Heidelberg, 281–310.
[28] A. Gervais, G. O. Karame, V. Capkun, and S. Capkun. 2014. Is Bitcoin a De-
centralized Currency? IEEE Security Privacy 12, 3 (May 2014), 54–60. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2014.49
[29] Arthur Gervais, Ghassan O. Karame, Karl Wüst, Vasileios Glykantzis, Hubert
Ritzdorf, and Srdjan Capkun. 2016. On the Security and Performance of Proof
of Work Blockchains. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC Conference on
Computer and Communications Security (Vienna, Austria) (CCS ’16). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 3–16. https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978341
[30] Adam Groce, Jonathan Katz, Aishwarya Thiruvengadam, and Vassilis Zikas. 2012.
Byzantine Agreement with a Rational Adversary. In Automata, Languages, and
Programming, Artur Czumaj, Kurt Mehlhorn, Andrew Pitts, and Roger Watten-
hofer (Eds.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 561–572.
[31] Cyril Grunspan and Ricardo Pérez-Marco. 2018. On profitability of selfish mining.
CoRR abs/1805.08281 (2018). arXiv:1805.08281 http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08281
[32] Jr. Harvey S. James. 2014. Incentive compatibility. Encyclopedia Britannica,
inc. Encyclopedia Britannica https://www.britannica.com/topic/incentive-
compatibility.
[33] Charlie Hou, Mingxun Zhou, Yansquir Ji, Phil Daian, Florian Tramer, Giulia Fanti,
and Ari Juels. 2019. SquirRL: Automating Attack Discovery on Blockchain Incen-
tive Mechanisms with Deep Reinforcement Learning. arXiv:1912.01798 [cs.CR]
[34] Edward W Felten Joshua A Kroll, Ian C Davey. 2013. The economics of Bitcoin
mining, or Bitcoin in the presence of adversaries. In Proceedings of WEIS.
[35] Ari Juels and John G. Brainard. 1999. Client Puzzles: A Cryptographic Counter-
measure Against Connection Depletion Attacks. In NDSS. The Internet Society.
[36] Jonathan Katz, Ueli Maurer, Björn Tackmann, and Vassilis Zikas. 2013. Universally
Composable Synchronous Computation. In Theory of Cryptography, Amit Sahai
(Ed.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 477–498.
[37] Yoav Shoham Kevin Leyton-Brown. 2008. Essentials of Game Theory: A Concise
Multidisciplinary Introduction (Synthesis Lectures on Artificial Intelligence and
Machine Learning). Morgan & Claypool Publishers.
[38] Aggelos Kiayias, Elias Koutsoupias, Maria Kyropoulou, and Yiannis Tselekounis.
2016. Blockchain Mining Games. In Proceedings of the 2016 ACM Conference on
Economics and Computation (Maastricht, The Netherlands) (EC ’16). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 365–382. https://doi.org/10.1145/2940716.2940773
[39] Aggelos Kiayias and Aikaterini-Panagiota Stouka. 2019. Coalition-Safe Equilibria
with Virtual Payoffs. arXiv:2001.00047 [cs.GT]
[40] Abhiram Kothapalli, Andrew Miller, and Nikita Borisov. 2017. SmartCast: An
Incentive Compatible Consensus Protocol Using Smart Contracts. In Financial
Cryptography and Data Security, Michael Brenner, Kurt Rohloff, Joseph Bonneau,
Andrew Miller, Peter Y.A. Ryan, Vanessa Teague, Andrea Bracciali, Massimil-
iano Sala, Federico Pintore, and Markus Jakobsson (Eds.). Springer International
Publishing, Cham, 536–552.
[41] Leslie Lamport, Robert E. Shostak, and Marshall C. Pease. 1982. The Byzantine
Generals Problem. ACM Trans. Program. Lang. Syst. 4, 3 (1982), 382–401. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/357172.357176
[42] Nikos Leonardos, Stefanos Leonardos, and Georgios Piliouras. 2019. Oceanic
Games: Centralization Risks and Incentives in Blockchain Mining. CoRR
abs/1904.02368 (2019). arXiv:1904.02368 http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02368
[43] Stefanos Leonardos, Daniel Reijsbergen, and Georgios Piliouras. 2019.
PREStO: A Systematic Framework for Blockchain Consensus Protocols.
arXiv:1906.06540 [cs.CR]
[44] Yoad Lewenberg, Yonatan Sompolinsky, and Aviv Zohar. 2015. Inclusive Block
Chain Protocols. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Rainer Böhme
and Tatsuaki Okamoto (Eds.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg,
528–547.
[45] Kevin Liao and Jonathan Katz. 2017. Incentivizing Blockchain Forks via Whale
Transactions. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Michael Brenner,
Kurt Rohloff, Joseph Bonneau, Andrew Miller, Peter Y.A. Ryan, Vanessa Teague,
Andrea Bracciali, Massimiliano Sala, Federico Pintore, and Markus Jakobsson
(Eds.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 264–279.
[46] J. Liu, W. Li, G. O. Karame, and N. Asokan. 2018. Toward Fairness of Cryp-
tocurrency Payments. IEEE Security Privacy 16, 3 (May 2018), 81–89. https:
//doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2018.2701163
[47] Ziyao Liu, Nguyen Cong Luong, Wenbo Wang, Dusit Niyato, Ping Wang, Ying-
Chang Liang, and Dong In Kim. 2019. A Survey on Applications of Game Theory
in Blockchain. arXiv:1902.10865 [cs.GT]
[48] Loi Luu, Jason Teutsch, Raghav Kulkarni, and Prateek Saxena. 2015. Demystifying
Incentives in the Consensus Computer. In Proceedings of the 22Nd ACM SIGSAC
Conference on Computer and Communications Security (Denver, Colorado, USA)
(CCS ’15). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 706–719. https://doi.org/10.1145/2810103.
2813659
[49] Sarah Meiklejohn, Marjori Pomarole, Grant Jordan, Kirill Levchenko, Damon
McCoy, Geoffrey M. Voelker, and Stefan Savage. 2013. A Fistful of Bitcoins:
Characterizing Payments Among Men with No Names. In Proceedings of the
84
https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02916
http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02916
http://arxiv.org/abs/1612.02916
https://doi.org/10.1145/1095810.1095816
https://doi.org/10.1145/1095810.1095816
https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.08572
http://arxiv.org/abs/1811.08572
 https://doi.org/10.1515/9781400882168
https://doi.org/10.1145/2229012.2229022
http://www.cypherspace.org/hashcash
http://eprint.iacr.org/2017/300
http://eprint.iacr.org/2017/300
https://doi.org/10.1016/0022-0531(87)90099-8
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53357-4_2
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53357-4_2
https://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11218
http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.11218
https://doi.org/10.1007/s001459910006
https://doi.org/10.1007/s001459910006
https://eprint.iacr.org/2000/067
https://eprint.iacr.org/2000/067
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=874063.875553
https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978408
https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978408
https://doi.org/10.1145/3328526.3329630
https://doi.org/10.1109/FOCS.2013.75
https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2014.49
https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2014.49
https://doi.org/10.1145/2976749.2978341
https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08281
http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.08281
https://www.britannica.com/topic/incentive-compatibility
https://www.britannica.com/topic/incentive-compatibility
https://arxiv.org/abs/1912.01798
https://doi.org/10.1145/2940716.2940773
https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.00047
https://doi.org/10.1145/357172.357176
https://doi.org/10.1145/357172.357176
https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02368
http://arxiv.org/abs/1904.02368
https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.06540
https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2018.2701163
https://doi.org/10.1109/MSP.2018.2701163
https://arxiv.org/abs/1902.10865
https://doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813659
https://doi.org/10.1145/2810103.2813659
Coalition-Safe Equilibria with Virtual Payoffs AFT ’21, September 26–28, 2021, Arlington, VA, USA
2013 Conference on Internet Measurement Conference (Barcelona, Spain) (IMC ’13).
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 127–140. https://doi.org/10.1145/2504730.2504747
[50] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. http:
//bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
[51] K. Nayak, S. Kumar, A. Miller, and E. Shi. 2016. Stubborn Mining: Generalizing
Selfish Mining and Combining with an Eclipse Attack. In 2016 IEEE European
Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS P). 305–320. https://doi.org/10.1109/
EuroSP.2016.32
[52] Rafael Pass, Lior Seeman, and Abhi Shelat. 2017. Analysis of the Blockchain
Protocol in Asynchronous Networks. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT
2017, Jean-Sébastien Coron and Jesper Buus Nielsen (Eds.). Springer International
Publishing, Cham, 643–673.
[53] Rafael Pass and Elaine Shi. 2017. FruitChains: A Fair Blockchain. In Proceedings
of the ACM Symposium on Principles of Distributed Computing (Washington, DC,
USA) (PODC ’17). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 315–324. https://doi.org/10.1145/
3087801.3087809
[54] R. L. Rivest, A. Shamir, and D. A. Wagner. 1996. Time-lock Puzzles and Timed-
release Crypto. Technical Report. Cambridge, MA, USA.
[55] Dorit Ron and Adi Shamir. 2013. Quantitative Analysis of the Full Bitcoin
Transaction Graph. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Ahmad-Reza
Sadeghi (Ed.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg, 6–24.
[56] Tim Roughgarden. 2020. Transaction Fee Mechanism Design for the Ethereum
Blockchain: An Economic Analysis of EIP-1559. arXiv:2012.00854 [cs.GT]
[57] Ayelet Sapirshtein, Yonatan Sompolinsky, and Aviv Zohar. 2017. Optimal Selfish
Mining Strategies in Bitcoin. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Jens
Grossklags and Bart Preneel (Eds.). Springer Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg,
515–532.
[58] Fred B. Schneider. 1990. Implementing Fault-Tolerant Services Using the State
Machine Approach: A Tutorial. ACM Comput. Surv. 22, 4 (1990), 299–319. https:
//doi.org/10.1145/98163.98167
[59] Itay Tsabary and Ittay Eyal. 2018. The Gap Game. In Proceedings of the 2018 ACM
SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (Toronto, Canada)
(CCS ’18). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 713–728. https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.
3243737
[60] Itay Tsabary and Ittay Eyal. 2018. The Gap Game. CoRR abs/1805.05288 (2018).
arXiv:1805.05288 http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.05288
85
https://doi.org/10.1145/2504730.2504747
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP.2016.32
https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP.2016.32
https://doi.org/10.1145/3087801.3087809
https://doi.org/10.1145/3087801.3087809
https://arxiv.org/abs/2012.00854
https://doi.org/10.1145/98163.98167
https://doi.org/10.1145/98163.98167
https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243737
https://doi.org/10.1145/3243734.3243737
https://arxiv.org/abs/1805.05288
http://arxiv.org/abs/1805.05288
	Abstract
	1 Introduction
	1.1 Our Results
	1.2 Other Related Work
	2 Our Model
	3 Incentives in Bitcoin
	3.1 When Transactions Contribute to the Rewards
	4 Mining Pools and Centralization
	5 Weak Fairness and EVP
	6 Incentives in the Fruitchain Protocol
	7 Conclusion
	Acknowledgments
	8 Appendices
	A Chernoff Bounds
	B Negligible Functions and Probability Events
	References