Microsoft Word - AMJQZYLHWL.docx
512 
 
Game Studies on Accounting Entity Behavior Based on Blockchain 
Technology 
YanRu Kong 
South China Institute of Software Engineering.GU 
GD, GuangZhou, 510990 
155177164@qq.com 
JiaWu Yue† 
South China Institute of Software Engineering.GU 
GD, GuangZhou, 510990 
14433846@qq.com 
Abstract  
Blockchain technology has been favored by various industries 
since its emergence because of the concept of data sharing, and 
the accounting industry is no exception. Integrating blockchain 
technology into the accounting information system can not only 
break the development restrictions of the accounting information 
system, but also realize the sharing of resource information 
among enterprises in the industry, including existing customers 
and suppliers. However, due to the openness and transparency of 
blockchain technology, there have been speculations similar to 
the free-rider problem among corporate accounting entities. The 
author uses game theory to analyze speculative behavior among 
accounting entities based on blockchain technology. Through 
analyzing the prisoner’s dilemma, the selection tendency of the 
interests represented by each node on the blockchain is obtained 
after the game. Based on the boxed pig game analysis, it is 
concluded that under the influence of factors such as optimal 
prices, sales prices, negotiation costs, and production costs, larger 
companies in the same industry will take the initiative to 
negotiate prices with customers. By contrast, under the influence 
of factors such as optimal prices, purchase prices, and negotiation 
costs, larger companies in the same industry will first negotiate 
prices with suppliers. Given this analysis, in order to avoid 
speculative behaviors disrupting economic development, this 
paper will propose countermeasures including legal constraints, 
institutional punishments, privacy protection, policy support, etc., 
to achieve a smooth transition of integrating blockchain 
technology into the accounting information system. 
CCS CONCEPTS 
CCS→Information systems→Information systems 
applications→Decision support systems→Data analytics 
Keywords 
Blockchain, Accounting entity, Behavior, Prisoner's dilemma, 
Boxed pig game 
1 Introduction 
In 2008, Satoshi Nakamoto sent an email entitled Bitcoin P2P 
e-cash paper, which is considered to be the origin of the 
blockchain. Since then, a new technological innovation has been 
launched worldwide. As far as China is concerned, in December 
2016, the State Council issued the 15th Five-Year Plan for 
National Informatization, which is the first time that China has 
incorporated blockchain technology into a national plan in the 
form of an official document. The application of blockchain 
technology to accounting information systems is a direction for 
the development of accounting information systems in China. The 
use of blockchain technology to transmit data helps achieve the 
integrity, originality, accuracy, and traceability of the data in the 
transmission, fitting in with the original intention of the 
accounting information system research and development. 
However, as shown in Figure 1 and Figure 3 below, the 
blockchain is a decentralized peer-to-peer system in which the 
data of each node is transparent. The information recorded by 
each node, such as transaction object, transaction amount, 
transaction goods, transaction quantity, transaction time, payment 
account, etc., can be queried by other node users on the same 
chain. Therefore, private information such as corporate customers 
and suppliers is made public, which leads to speculation and even 
collaborative cheating among different entities in the same supply 
chain. In the meanwhile, different companies in the same industry 
can also make self-interested speculation by using the 
information on the customers and suppliers of companies in the 
same industry found on the blockchain. 
2 Prisoner's dilemma game analysis among 
accounting entities under blockchain technology 
2.1 Prisoner’s dilemma model (1) 
The prisoner’s dilemma refers to the strategic choice of denial of 
guilt made by suspects A and B when facing the police’s isolated 
interrogation. Assuming that both of them pleaded guilty, both of 
them will be imprisoned for 4 years; if neither of them pleaded 
guilty, based on the evidence at the scene, both will be 
imprisoned for 1 year; if one pleads guilty and the other does not 
plead guilty, one will be exempted while the other will be 
imprisoned for 7 years. The details are shown in the following 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or 
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed 
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full 
citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others 
than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy 
otherwise, 
or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific 
permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from Permissions@acm.org. 
CIAT 2020, December 4–6, 2020, Guangzhou, China  
© 2020 Association for Computing Machinery. 
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8782-8/20/10…$15.00  
https://doi.org/10.1145/3444370.3444621 
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3444370.3444621&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2021-01-04
513 
 
table: 
Table 1 Prisoner’s Dilemma 
Prisoner B 
Prisoner A Plead guilty Plea not guilty 
Plead guilty （4,4） （0,7） 
Plea not guilty （7,0） （1,1） 
Table 1 shows that both prisoner A and prisoner B have two 
choices, that is, whether to plead guilty or not to plead guilty. For 
prisoner A, if he chooses to plead guilty, he will be convicted for 
4 years, and if he chooses not to plead guilty, he will be convicted 
for 7 years. In this case, Prisoner A is more inclined to choose to 
plead guilty. However, for prisoner B, when prisoner A chooses to 
plead guilty, if B chooses to plead guilty, B will be convicted for 
4 years, and if B chooses not to plead guilty, B will be convicted 
for 7 years. When prisoner A chooses not to plead guilty, if B 
chooses to plead guilty, B will be exempted, and if B does not 
plead guilty, B will be convicted for 1 year. In this case, whether 
Prisoner A denies guilt or not, choosing to confess will be the best 
choice for Prisoner B. After the above game analysis, both 
prisoner A and prisoner B will choose to plead guilty, which is 
their dominant strategy. 
2.2 Application of the prisoner's dilemma model 
The prisoner's dilemma is a one-time game between two parties, 
and each party aims at maximizing benefits. As a result, neither 
side of the game can maximize the benefits, leading to the end of 
a non-cooperative game. After the blockchain technology is 
integrated into the accounting information system, since the 
transaction information of the accounting entity will be recorded 
in the node of the blockchain, other node users on the blockchain 
can directly obtain the node information. The hash puzzle makes 
the calculation cost of falsifying blockchain node information 
very high, so the node information cannot be tampered with 
technically and economically. If the user of a certain node in the 
blockchain wants to unilaterally modify the transaction data on 
the node to maximize their benefits, this feature determines that it 
is not feasible. Therefore, if anyone wants to modify the data, it 
requires all parties in the supply chain related to the modified 
data to cooperatively cheat. 
2.2.1 Game assumptions 
Taking the four-node users on the blockchain as an example, now 
there are enterprise A, customer C of enterprise A, material 
supplier S of enterprise A, and tax department T. Enterprise A, 
customer C, and material supplier S are in the same supply chain, 
as shown in Figure 1 below. Now make the following 
assumptions: 
(1) Enterprise A purchases raw materials from material 
supplier S at the price of P1 (excluding tax), and processes the 
raw materials into finished products; 
(2) Enterprise A sells finished products to customer C at the 
price of P2 (excluding tax);  
(3) Enterprise A pays value-added tax (P2-P1) to the tax 
department T by 13%; 
(4) Only value-added tax is involved in the entire transaction, 
and no value-added tax reduction or refund is involved; 
(5) Enterprise A is the upstream enterprise of customer C and 
the downstream enterprise of supplier S. Customer C is a 
downstream company of company A and an upstream company in 
its supply chain. Supplier S is the upstream enterprise of 
enterprise A and the downstream enterprise in its supply chain.  
Therefore, the behavior of enterprise A can represent the behavior 
pattern of enterprise C and enterprise S. Here, enterprise A is 
taken as an example for analysis. 
 
 
Figure 1 Node data transfer in the blockchain 
2.2.2 Game model 
In the traditional accounting information system, the business of 
enterprise A is only processed in enterprise A, and the processing 
results are only stored in enterprise A. Finally, Enterprise A 
provides purchase and sales invoices to the tax department and 
declares value-added tax accordingly. In the traditional system, 
Trade2  Trade1 
Trade2  Trade1 
Trade2  Trade1 
Node 1 
(Customer C) 
Node 2 
(Enterprise A)  Node 3 
(Supplier S) 
Node 4 
(Tax department T) 
514 
 
the transaction information between enterprise A and its 
customers and suppliers is not transparent, so the tax department 
cannot obtain transaction information directly from customers 
and suppliers, which will allow enterprise A to cheat unilaterally. 
After the blockchain technology is integrated into the accounting 
information system, since the information of each node on the 
blockchain is transparent, the transaction data between enterprise 
A and customer C is passed to the tax department. At the same 
time, the transaction data of customer C located on the 
blockchain node will also be passed to the tax department. The 
data of the same transaction can be verified through the hash 
value during the transfer process. As shown in Figure 2, based on 
the independent hash algorithm, if the hash value 1 of the data 
obtained by the tax department from the customer or supplier is 
equal to the hash value 2 of the data obtained from enterprise A, it 
proves that the transaction data received by the tax department 
has not been changed. Otherwise, the transaction data received by 
the tax department has been changed during the transfer process. 
 
Figure 2 Calculation and comparison of the independent hash value (2)
  
The application of hash value makes the possibility of 
unilateral cheating by the middle party of the transaction, 
enterprise A, extremely small unless enterprise A can solve the 
hash puzzle. Because of this dilemma, if enterprise A wants to 
cheat, it must cooperate with customers and suppliers. If the 
customer agrees to cheat and sets the price of the blockchain node 
as (P2-P2
’), and the supplier agrees to cheat and enters the price of 
the blockchain node as (P1-P1
’), the results in Table 2 can be 
obtained: 
Table 2 Dilemma of enterprise A 
Supplier S 
Enterprise A 
Customer C 
Cheat（P1-P1
’） No cheating（P1） 
Cheat（P2-P2
’） 
（P2- P1）ⅹ13%- 
（P2
’- P1
’） ⅹ13% 
（P2- P1）ⅹ13%-P2
’ⅹ13% 
No cheating（P2） （P2- P1）ⅹ13%+P1
’ ⅹ13% （P2- P1）ⅹ13% 
 
2.2.3  Game analysis 
It can be seen from Table 2, if both customer C and supplier S 
disagree to cheat, enterprise A will eventually pay the 
value-added tax of (P2-P1) ⅹ13%. If customer C disagrees to cheat 
and supplier S agrees to cheat, enterprise A will pay the 
value-added tax of [(P2- P1)ⅹ13%+P1
’ ⅹ13%]. Since this amount 
exceeds the normal tax payment, enterprise A will not agree with 
this situation. If customer C agrees to cheat and supplier S 
disagree to cheat, enterprise A will pay the value-added tax of 
[(P2- P1)ⅹ13%-P2
’ⅹ13%]. Since this amount is lower than the 
normal tax payment, enterprise A will accept this result. If both 
customer C and supplier S agree to cheat, enterprise A will pay 
[(P2- P1)ⅹ13%-(P2
’- P1
’) ⅹ13%]. Whether this amount is larger 
than or less than that of enterprise A’s normal tax payment 
depends on the cheating amount agreed by customer C and 
supplier S. When the cheating amount by customer C is larger 
than that by supplier S, enterprise A will accept it, otherwise 
enterprise A will not accept it. 
As analysis above shows, the preferred result of enterprise A is 
that the customer cheats and the supplier does not cheat, or the 
amount cheated by the customer is larger than the amount cheated 
by the supplier. The analysis results are also applicable to the 
hypothetical customer C and supplier S. That is, in each supply 
chain on the blockchain node, whether downstream companies 
cheat and the extent of the cheating will directly affect the taxes 
of their upstream companies. After multiple cooperative games, 
each company in the supply chain and its downstream companies 
will eventually develop a tendency to underreport or conceal 
transaction data at the same time. Therefore, whether the 
transaction information obtained by the tax department from the 
blockchain node is authentic or not depends on whether the 
downstream company of each transaction participates in 
collaborative cheating. 
3 Boxed pig game analysis among accounting 
entities under blockchain technology 
3.1 Boxed pig game model (1) 
The boxed pig game refers to the strategic game in which the 
dominant pig and the subordinate pig in the box decide who will 
press the lever. There is a lever on one side of the box and a 
Hash Value 1 
Customer/ Supplier  Tax department 
Tax department Enterprise A  Hash Value 2 
515 
 
device that can provide food to the pigs on the other side. It takes 
2 units of energy to press the lever, and then 10 units of food 
energy enter the device. If the subordinate pig presses the lever, 
the dominant pig can get 9 units of energy, and the subordinate 
pig can only get -1 unit of energy. If they press the lever together, 
the dominant pig gets 4 units of energy and the subordinate pig 
gets 2 units of energy. If the dominant pig presses the lever, the 
dominant pig gets 3 units of energy and the subordinate pig gets 5 
units of energy. The details are shown in Table 3: 
Table 3 Boxed pig game 
Piglets 
Big pig 
Tact Switch Wait 
Tact Switch （4,2） （3,5） 
Wait （9，-1） （0,0） 
It can be seen from Table 3 that if the dominant pig and the 
subordinate pig do not press the lever, the profit of both will be 0, 
which obviously will not happen. So, they either press the lever at 
the same time, or one of them does it. From the perspective of the 
subordinate pig, if it chooses to take the initiative to press the 
lever, no matter what the dominant pig strategically chooses, the 
maximum benefit of the subordinate pig is 2 units. Since there 
will not be a situation where the dominant pig and the 
subordinate pig wait at the same time, when the subordinate pig 
chooses to wait, the dominant pig will press the lever and the 
final profit of the subordinate pig will be 5 units. Therefore, the 
optimal strategy for the subordinate pig is to wait. From the point 
of view of the dominant pig, since the profit of the subordinate 
pig is -1 when they simultaneously press the lever, economically 
speaking, the situation where the dominant pig chooses to wait 
will not happen. That is to say, the dominant pig can only choose 
to press the lever. After the above game analysis, the final choice 
is the dominant pig to press the lever while the subordinate pig to 
wait. 
3.2 Application of boxed pig game model 
The decentralized and peer-to-peer system architecture 
determines that the node information on the blockchain chain is 
transparent. Information transparency is the reason why 
blockchain technology is widely used, which is also a stumbling 
block that hinders its widespread application in various fields. 
Since node information and user information on the blockchain 
can be queried by other node users in real-time, this has led to the 
disclosure of private information of node users on the blockchain, 
including customer price information and supplier price 
information. Given this, the author here uses the theory of the 
boxed pig game to analyze the strategy choices of node users of 
different sizes in the same industry on the same blockchain when 
negotiating prices with customers and suppliers. 
 
 
Figure 3 Decentralized and peer-to-peer system architecture 
3.2.1 Boxed pig game in price negotiation between enterprises 
of different sizes in the same industry and customers 
(1)  Game assumption (3) 
A. Assuming that there are only two enterprises A and B in a 
certain industry, enterprise A is a large company and enterprise B 
is a small and medium-sized company, where enterprise A and 
company B are respectively equivalent to the dominant pig and 
the subordinate pig in the boxed pig game. 
B. Enterprises A and B have the same customers, and both can 
directly negotiate prices with customers. There are two rounds of 
negotiation at most. 
C. Customers determine different prices according to the size 
of their suppliers. 
D. During price negotiation, the cost of each round of 
negotiation is fixed and can be estimated. 
E. The production cost per unit of the finished product is the 
same. 
(2)  Game model construction 
Large enterprises can provide a stable and high-quality source 
of goods due to their strong capital and advanced technology, so 
they can get the best price P1. Two rounds of negotiation are only 
needed when there is no price basis. On the contrary, since small 
and medium-sized enterprises cannot provide stable and 
high-quality goods, they can only get the lowest price P2 without 
a price basis. When there is a price basis, a slightly higher price 
P3 can be obtained after negotiation. During price negotiation, the 
Enterprise A 
Enterprise B 
Customer 1 
Customer 2 
Supplier 1 
Supplier 2 
516 
 
unit product negotiation cost at each stage is the fixed cost C, and 
the unit production cost of the finished product is M. Assuming 
that the probability of enterprise A and customer for 
non-price-based negotiation is p, then the probability of 
enterprise A and the customer for price-based negotiation is 1-p, 
the probability of enterprise B and the customer for 
non-price-based negotiation is r, and the probability of enterprise 
B and the customer for price-based negotiation is 1-r. The game 
model shown in the following table can be obtained: 
Table 4 Price negotiation game between enterprises A and B and customers 
               Enterprise B 
Enterprise A 
Negotiation without price basis（r） Price based negotiation（1-r） 
Negotiation without price basis（p） （P1-2C-M，P2-C-M） （P1-2C-M，P3-C-M） 
Price based negotiation（1-p） （P1-C-M，P2-C-M） （0，0） 
 (3)  Game analysis 
Table 4 shows that the expected revenue per unit product of 
enterprise A is: 
EEnterprise A=rp(P1-2C-M)+(1-r)p(P1-2C-M)+r(1-p)(P1-C-M) 
   =p(P1-2C-M)+r(P1-C-M)-rp(P1-C-M) 
 Find the derivative of p, EEnterprise A
’=-r(P1-C-M)+P1-2C-M 
From the balance point of the function, r=(P1-2C-M)/(P1-C-M) 
=1-C/(P1-C-M) 
From this balance point, it can be seen that the probability of 
enterprise B’s non-price-based negotiation is affected by the 
optimal price P1, the negotiated unit fixed cost C, and the unit 
production cost M. When C and M are constant, the higher P1 is, 
the larger the probability that enterprise B will negotiate without 
a price basis; if P1 is lower, the probability of enterprise B 
negotiating without a price basis is smaller. When P1 and M are 
constant, the higher C is, the smaller the probability of enterprise 
B’s negotiation without a price basis; if C is lower, the probability 
of enterprise B’s negotiation without a price basis is larger. When 
P1 and C are constant, the higher M is, the smaller the probability 
of enterprise B’s negotiation without price basis; if M is lower, 
the larger the probability of enterprise B’s negotiation without 
price basis. 
Table 4 shows that the expected revenue per unit product of 
enterprise B is: 
EEnterprise B=rp(P2-C-M)+(1-r)p(P3-C-M)+r(1-p)(P2-C-M) 
        =r(P2-C-M)-rp(P3-C-M)+p(P3-C-M) 
Find the derivative of r EEnterprise B
’=-p(P3-C-M)+P2-C-M 
From the balance point of the function, p=(P2-C-M)/(P3-C-M) 
From this balance point, it can be seen that the probability of 
enterprise A’s non-price-based negotiation is affected by the 
optimal price P2, the second-best price P3, the negotiated unit 
fixed cost C, and the unit production cost M. When C and M are 
constant, the higher P2 is, the larger the probability that enterprise 
A will negotiate without a price basis; if P2 is lower, the 
probability of enterprise A negotiating without a price basis is 
smaller. When C and M are constant, the higher P3 is, the smaller 
the probability that enterprise A will negotiate without a price 
basis; if P3 is lower, the probability of enterprise A negotiating 
without a price basis is larger. When P2, P3 and M are constant, 
the higher C is, the smaller the probability of enterprise A’s 
negotiation without a price basis; if C is lower, the probability of 
enterprise A’s negotiation without a price basis is larger. When P2, 
P3 and C are constant, the higher M is, the smaller the probability 
of enterprise A’s negotiation without price basis; if M is lower, the 
larger the probability of enterprise A’s negotiation without price 
basis. 
The above analysis shows that, as two enterprises unique to 
the same industry, enterprise A and enterprise B will consider the 
final negotiated price, the unit fixed cost of each negotiation, and 
unit production cost. If the difference between the best price and 
the lowest price is larger, the two enterprises will be more 
motivated to negotiate with customers without a price basis. If the 
difference between the best price and the lowest price is smaller, 
they will be less motivated to negotiate without a price basis. In 
addition, the second-best price will also affect the motivation of 
enterprise A to negotiate without a price basis. If the second-best 
price is higher, enterprise A will be less motivated to negotiate 
without a price basis. When the second-best price is close to the 
best price, enterprise A will completely give up negotiating with 
customers. When the second-best price is close to the lowest price, 
enterprise A will actively negotiate with the customer to obtain 
the most favorable price difference. At the same time, if the fixed 
cost of the negotiation and the unit production cost is relatively 
large, both enterprises A and B tend not to negotiate without a 
price basis. However, while waiting for the negotiated price of the 
other enterprise, business opportunities may also be lost. This loss 
is even more serious for a large enterprise A with economies of 
scale. Consequently, the final game result between the two 
enterprises must be that enterprise A first negotiates successfully 
with its customers and concludes the transaction, and the 
transaction information will be recorded into the node of the 
blockchain. At this time, enterprise B, as a user of the blockchain 
node, can directly obtain the price from the transaction 
information of enterprise A, and conduct price-based negotiations 
with customers. 
3.2.2 Boxed pig game in price negotiation between enterprises 
of different sizes in the same industry and suppliers 
(1)  Game assumption 
A. Assuming that there are only two enterprises A and B in a 
certain industry, enterprise A is a large company and enterprise B 
is a small and medium-sized company, where enterprise A and 
enterprise B are respectively equivalent to the dominant pig and 
the subordinate pig in the boxed pig game. Enterprise A has a 
professional negotiation team with advanced equipment and 
technology, while enterprise B lags behind enterprise A in terms 
of technology, equipment, and human resources. 
B. Enterprises A and B have the same raw material suppliers, 
and both can directly negotiate prices with suppliers. There are 
517 
 
two rounds of negotiation at most. 
C. Raw material suppliers determine different prices 
according to the size of their suppliers. 
D. During price negotiation, the cost of each round of 
negotiation is fixed and can be estimated. 
E. Assume that the finished products of enterprises A and B 
are the same and the unit prices of finished products are the same. 
(2)  Game model construction 
Enterprise A is a large enterprise in the industry with a stable 
market and mature technology, which has a stable demand for 
large purchases of raw materials. As a result, the lowest material 
purchase price S1 can be obtained, and two rounds of negotiation 
are required when there is no price basis. In contrast, small and 
medium-sized enterprises are not yet able to conduct assembly 
line production and the demand for raw materials depends on 
market sales, so the purchase demand and frequency are not fixed. 
As a result, only the highest material purchase price S2 can be 
obtained without a price basis, and the next best price S3 can be 
obtained after negotiation if there is a price basis. During price 
negotiation, the unit product negotiation cost at each stage is the 
fixed cost D. The selling price of the unit products of enterprises 
A and B is N. Assuming that the probability of negotiating 
without a price basis between enterprise A and its supplier is q, 
the probability of negotiating with a price basis between 
enterprise A and its customer is 1-q. Assuming that the 
probability of negotiating without a price basis between 
enterprise B and the supplier is t, then the probability of 
negotiating with a price basis between enterprise B and the 
customer is 1-t. The game model shown in the following table 
can be obtained: 
Table 5 Price negotiation game between enterprises A and B and suppliers 
               Enterprise B 
Enterprise A 
Negotiation without price basis（t） Price based negotiation（1-t） 
Negotiation without price basis（q） （N-S1-2D，N-S2-D） （N-S1-2D，N-S3-D） 
Price based negotiation（1-q） （N-S1-D，N-S2-D） （0，0） 
 (3)  Game analysis 
Table 5 shows that the expected revenue per unit product of 
enterprise A is: 
EEnterprise A=tq(N-S1-2D)+(1-t)q(N-S1-2D)+t(1-q)(N-S1-D) 
    =q(N-S1-2D)-tq(N-S1-D)+t(N-S1-D) 
Find the derivative of q, EEnterprise A
’=(N-S1-2D)-t(N-S1-D) 
From the balance point of the function, t=(N-S1-2D)/(N-S1-D) 
From this balance point, it can be seen that the probability of 
enterprise B’s non-price-based negotiation with suppliers is 
affected by the unit product selling price N, the lowest purchase 
price S1, and the unit product negotiation cost D. When N and D 
are constant, the higher S1 is, the larger the probability that 
enterprise B will negotiate without a price basis; if S1 is lower, 
the probability of enterprise B negotiating without a price basis is 
smaller. When N and S1 are constant, the higher D is, the smaller 
the probability of enterprise B’s negotiation without a price basis; 
if D is lower, the probability of enterprise B’s negotiation without 
a price basis is larger. When S1 and D are constant, the higher N 
is, the larger the probability of enterprise B’s negotiation without 
price basis; if N is lower, the small the probability of enterprise 
B’s negotiation without price basis. 
Table 5 shows that the expected revenue per unit product of 
enterprise B is: 
EEnterprise B=tq(N-S2-D)+(1-t)q(N-S3-D)+t(1-q)(N-S2-D) 
    =q(N-S3-D)-tq(N-S3-D)+t(N-S2-D) 
Find the derivative of t, EEnterprise B
’=(N-S2-D)-q(N-S3-D) 
From the balance point of the function, q=(N-S2-D)/(N-S3-D) 
From this balance point, it can be seen that the probability of 
enterprise A’s non-price-based negotiation is affected by the unit 
product selling price N, the highest purchase price S2, the 
second-best purchase price S3, and the unit product negotiation 
cost D. When N and D are constant, the higher S2 is, the smaller 
the probability that enterprise A will negotiate without a price 
basis; if S2 is lower, the probability of enterprise A negotiating 
without a price basis is larger. When N and D are constant, the 
higher S3 is, the larger the probability that enterprise A will 
negotiate without a price basis; if S3 is lower, the probability of 
enterprise A negotiating without a price basis is smaller. When N, 
S2 and S3 are constant, the higher D is, the smaller the probability 
of enterprise A’s negotiation without a price basis; if D is lower, 
the probability of enterprise A’s negotiation without a price basis 
is larger. When S2, S3 and D are constant, the higher N is, the 
larger the probability of enterprise A’s negotiation without price 
basis; if N is lower, the smaller the probability of enterprise A’s 
negotiation without price basis. 
The above analysis shows that enterprise A and enterprise B 
will consider the final negotiated price, the unit fixed cost of each 
negotiation, and unit production cost, when deciding whether to 
negotiate with suppliers on a non-price basis. If the difference 
between the best price and the lowest price is larger, the two 
enterprises will be more motivated to negotiate with customers 
without a price basis. Otherwise, they will be less motivated. In 
addition, the second best price will also affect the motivation of 
enterprise A to negotiate without a price basis. If the second best 
price is lower, enterprise A will be less motivated to negotiate 
without a price basis. When the second best price is close to the 
best price, enterprise A will actively negotiate with suppliers to 
obtain the most favorable price difference. At the same time, if 
the fixed cost of each negotiation or the unit production selling 
price is relatively low, both enterprises A and B tend not to 
negotiate without a price basis, but to wait for a negotiated price 
from the other enterprise. However, business opportunities may 
also be lost while waiting. This loss is even more serious for a 
large enterprise A with economies of scale. Consequently, the 
final game result between the two enterprises must be that 
enterprise A first negotiates successfully with its suppliers and 
concludes the transaction, and the transaction information will be 
recorded into the node of the blockchain. At this time, enterprise 
518 
 
B, as a user of the blockchain node, can directly obtain the price 
from the transaction information of enterprise A, and conduct 
price-based negotiations with suppliers. 
4 Countermeasures to circumvent the behavior of 
accounting entities under blockchain technology 
The integration of blockchain technology solves the problems in 
the accounting information system, such as data storage, data 
transmission, and data sharing. However, driven by the benefit of 
maximizing profits, problems such as the prisoner’s dilemma and 
the boxed pig game mentioned in the previous analysis have 
appeared. On this basis, the author proposes countermeasures 
including legal constraints, rewards, and guidance as follows: 
1. Supporting legal documents are issued to restrain the 
enterprise by making every enterprise a node user on the 
blockchain chain becomes an online enterprise. The transaction 
information between enterprises is ensured to be recorded into the 
blockchain nodes promptly to avoid tax evasion between 
enterprises through private offline transactions. 
2. Penalties are increased to avoid collaborative cheating 
among node users. According to the results of the game analysis 
of the prisoner’s dilemma, the tendency of collaborative cheating 
among blockchain node users on the same supply chain is that 
downstream companies have a stronger tendency to cheat than 
upstream companies. Therefore, relevant departments should 
intensify the auditing of the transaction information and data of 
downstream enterprises. When necessary, they can adopt 
measures including increasing audit samples and changing 
auditors from time to time to supervise them. 
3. The private key and the public key are used to encrypt and 
protect the node information of the blockchain as necessary. For 
example, in the process of calculating taxes, each enterprise with 
transaction records has a public key, and each enterprise has a 
different public key. Each enterprise its unique public key to pass 
the transaction information to the tax department. Public keys 
between enterprises are not interoperable, and tax data is not 
shared. In the meanwhile, the tax department owns the private 
key, collects the transaction information of each enterprise 
through the private key, and uses this as a reference basis to 
collect taxes. 
4. Model enterprises are selected from each industry. Through 
policy support and setting rewards for outstanding contributions, 
model enterprises in the same industry are encouraged to take the 
initiative to negotiate prices with customers and suppliers to 
support smaller companies. In addition to promoting the 
coordinated development of the economy, it also avoids losing 
the opportunity to boost the economy due to the simultaneous 
choice of waiting, similar to the situation where the dominant pig 
and the subordinate pig in the boxed pig game. 
SOURCE OF THE PROJECT: 
(1) Accounting research project of Guangdong Province in 
2019-2020: Research on the construction and innovation of 
accounting information system based on blockchain 
technology(Project No: 19-20 * 026) 
 (2) "Quality engineering" construction project of South China 
Institute of Software Engineering.GU in 2020 (Project No: 
JPJC202001) 
 (3) "Research on the game behavior of accounting entities 
based on blockchain technology" (Project No: ky202031), 
scientific research, education and teaching research project of 
South China Institute of Software Engineering.GU in 2020 
REFERENCES: 
[1] Weiying Zhang. Game theory and information economics. Gezhi publishing 
house, Shanghai Sanlian bookstore, Shanghai People's publishing house. New 
edition, April 2012 
[2] [English] Daniel Dreiser, translated by Dan Ma, Fusang Wang and Chuyang 
Zhang. 25 lectures on basic knowledge of blockchain. 1st edition, November 
2018 
[3] Jiasheng Chen. Game Research on financial fraud among listed companies, 
auditors and regulators. Audit research. Issue 4, 2014