HapiChain: A Blockchain-based Framework for Patient-Centric Telemedicine
HapiChain: A Blockchain-based Framework for
Patient-Centric Telemedicine
Hossain Kordestani ∗, Kamel Barkaoui †, Wagdy Zahran ‡
∗‡ Department of Research and Innovation, Maidis SAS, Chatou, France
∗†Centre d’études et de recherche en informatique et communications, Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers, Paris, France
∗hossain.kordestani@maidis.fr, †barkaoui@cnam.fr, ‡wagdy.zahran@maidis.fr
Abstract—Given the exploding number of the elderly and
patients with chronic diseases and the uneven distribution of
clinicians, it is economically impossible to continue traditional
medicine. Hence, the healthcare sector has been gradually gravi-
tating towards telemedicine, which applies intelligent systems for
more comprehensive medical services with minimum costs. The
criticality of data and process involved in telemedicine raise var-
ious concerns in terms of reliability and security. To this end, in
this paper, we propose HapiChain, a blockchain-based framework
for patient-centric telemedicine. HapiChain exploits blockchain
technology to improve security, scalability, and reliability of
medical workflows. Although HapiChain is patient-centric, it also
helps the clinicians to save time and prevent unnecessary trips
without improvising the level of treatment. In HapiChain, we
embed two primary telemedicine services, namely telemonitoring
and teleconsultation. For the former service, Hapicare, an existing
healthcare monitoring system with self-adaptive coaching using
probabilistic reasoning, is used. HapiChain then completes this
service by adding teleconsultation services exploiting blockchain
technology. The HapiChain framework includes three main
layers: (i) interface layer, (ii) DApp layer, and (iii) blockchain
layer. In the first layer, Hapicare is used to communicates with
the users, i.e., patients and doctors. DApp layer includes the
required procedures for security and scalability of HapiChain,
namely smart contracts and distributed storage. The latter is
achieved using the InterPlanetary File System (IPFS). In the
blockchain layer, Ethereum blockchain is used as a platform of
DApps. We evaluate the HapiChain framework and the proposed
teleconsultation services in a use-case.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Telemedicine, Teleconsultation,
Medical Workflow, Ethereum, IPFS.
I. INTRODUCTION
Each aged person has averagely about 0.6 medical consulta-
tions per year [1]. Based on the predicted global aged popula-
tion [2], there will be more than two million consultations on
each day of the year 2030 for the elderly. Moreover, most aged
persons live in developing countries [2], where the clinicians
are not evenly distributed. The elderly and the patients with
chronic diseases are often advised for frequent checkups,
which mostly consist of checking of symptoms, reading of
vital signs, and medicine renewals. Given the aforementioned
challenges in managing the elderly and patients with chronic
This work was supported by the French National Research and Technology
Agency (ANRT)[CIFRE Reference number 2018/0284]
diseases, it is vital to provide a teleconsultation framework for
remote access to clinical experts.
Teleconsultation enables remote treatment of patients with
reduced costs. Moreover, teleconsultation can be a healthier
solution in comparison with face-to-face consultations; as
in the latter, doctors’ offices or clinics put patients prone
to infections, particularly in outbreaks of viral diseases or
seasonal influenza. As the elderly form more than two-third of
mortality of seasonal influenza [3], minimizing their exposure
to possible infected people is critical.
Teleconsultation is also appealing to patients due to reduced
costs and increased comfort. The pilot run of a teleconsultation
for specialist radiotherapy services received 100% satisfaction
from the patients [4]. During the six months of the pilot, 36.5%
of patients selected teleconsultation; and those who have
chosen face-to-face consultation averagely spent an additional
66 minutes to travel the 49km distance to the doctors’ offices
[4]. In the aforementioned study, the hidden costs are also
discussed, namely traveling costs and absence from work for
the persons accompanying patients. Similarly, TELEDIABE
[5], which is a teleconsultation system for patients with
diabetes, has received positive feedback from the patients; they
have saved averagely 115 minutes and 80 euros per each visit
using TELEDIABE.
Although teleconsultation is a promising tool to reduce
the direct and indirect costs of traditional consultation, the
criticality of data, and the process involved in teleconsulta-
tion raise various concerns on security and reliability. From
the point of view of doctors and patients, confidentiality
and integrity of medical data is the main concern when
all the data are transmitted through the internet. From a
governmental point of view, fraud in fiscal aspects is one
of the leading security concerns. Because of the intrinsic
features of blockchain technology, such as security, reliability,
consistency, and transparency, it has gained interests for use
in various domains, including healthcare. Blockchain is a
decentralized data structure consisting of a chain of blocks
of data that are linked with each other using cryptography
algorithms. Blockchain is resistant to tampering by design [6].
The existing blockchain-based approaches in healthcare can
be arguably classified into two main categories: (1) Secure
Storage and (2) Secure Workflow. The former approaches
focus on improving existing healthcare services in terms of se-978-1-7281-9042-6/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
curity and scalability, mainly by focusing on Electrical Health
Records (EHRs), as EHRs are the most critical information in
healthcare. For instance, the approach proposed in [7] is in Se-
cure Storage category; it provides a balance between patients’
privacy and data confidentiality by encrypting the records over
the network. Furthermore, FHIRChain [8] is another Secure
Storage approach, integrating blockchain technology in the
implementation of HL7 Fast Healthcare Interoperability Re-
sources (FHIR). The latter is a standard for exchanging EHRs
[9]. Thanks to blockchain technology, FHIRChain achieves
improvements in modularity, integrity, access-controls, and
trust. Similarly, in [10], blockchain technology is used to
aggregate patients’ EHR from various sources and provide
content-based access control for patients.
Currently, many medical centers and clinicians store medi-
cal files electronically; hence, the Secure Storage approaches
are promising and useful for current medical systems. How-
ever, in contrast to the Secure Workflow approaches, they do
not benefit from other aspects of blockchain technology, e.g.,
transparency and modularity of medical workflows. Secure
Workflow approaches focus on securing telemedicine services
as a whole unit. These approaches have an eye for future
innovative telemedicine solutions. For instance, numerous tele-
consultation project descriptions are as Initial Coin Offering
(ICO) initiatives [11]. ICO is a type of funding using cryp-
tocurrency and is commonly for fundraising the projects using
blockchain technology. However, most ICOs in the fields of
teleconsultation are discontinued. Another example of Secure
Workflow approach is DermoNet [12], which is a teleconsulta-
tion project for dermatology. The use of blockchain technology
in DermoNet enables patients to manage and access their data
and access more specialists while ensuring the security and
integrity of data. Although DermoNet is a promising approach
for telemedicine for dermatology, it lacks the requirements for
the elderly and patients with chronic diseases, including the
need for telemonitoring.
In this paper, we propose HapiChain, a blockchain-based
framework for patient-centric telemedicine; which is catego-
rized as a Secure Workflow approach. In this framework, we
use our previous work, Hapicare [13], as a telemonitoring
service and also an interface for communication of patients
and doctors for teleconsultation. Hapicare is a healthcare mon-
itoring system with self-adaptive coaching using probabilistic
reasoning. It is targeted for the elderly and patients with
chronic diseases to help them to live healthy on their own.
Hapicare uses ontology-based reasoning to add contextual
information about the readings of vital signs; later, sensor data
and their contextual information are processed to diagnose
patients’ medical conditions and provide a suitable reaction
for them. One of the suitable reaction in the case of serious
health problems is visiting a doctor. The elderly and patients
with chronic diseases are advised to periodically visit their
doctors for checkups to verify their treatments, including
the medical rules in Hapicare. In such cases, teleconsulta-
tion is a promising service to provide medical supervision
with minimum costs, which is not applicable in Hapicare.
To this end, in HapiChain, we propose a blockchain-based
framework integrating telemonitoring services with telecon-
sultation ones for telemedicine. The proposed teleconsultation
service includes traditional aspects of consultations, such as
agenda management, measurements, and prescriptions, as well
as additional services targeting Hapicare, i.e., customizing
Hapicare rules for patients based on the diagnosis. The main
contribution of our works are as follows:
• A telemedicine framework with modularity, security, re-
liability, and transparency using blockchain technology
• Scalable storage for medical files using IPFS
• Customizable content-based access controls to medical
files
• An innovative teleconsultation service in cooperation with
telemonitoring: in HapiChain, we introduce teleconsulta-
tion services to add doctors’ supervision to complete the
remote medical care of Hapicare.
The rest of this paper is structured as follows: in section II,
the used methodology is provided, then our proposed frame-
work, HapiChain, is described. A use-case is presented and
discussed in section III to evaluate the HapiChain framework.
Conclusion and future works are given in section IV.
II. METHODOLOGY
We propose HapiChain as a blockchain-based framework
for patient-centric telemedicine. Since telemonitoring is al-
ready covered in our previous work [13], in this paper, we
propose a teleconsultation service in the continuity of tele-
monitoring. The security and reliability in teleconsultation are
critical as it concerns multiple agents, e.g., patients, doctors,
and laboratories; and all the data are transmitted through the
internet network. In this section, we briefly review blockchain
technology and also our proposed teleconsultation workflows;
then, we discuss how we use blockchain technology to ensure
security aspects in teleconsultation services.
A. Blockchain Technology
Blockchain technology is considered from the group of
Decentralized Ledger Technology (DLT) [14]. The latter is a
consensus of replicated, shared, and synchronized data, which
can be distributed across multiple sites without having a central
administration nor a centralized data storage. Blockchain, as a
data structure, consists of a linked list of blocks. Each block
holds a copy of data while they are shared across a peer-to-
peer network. The blocks are chained to the previous ones
using hash values and digital signatures, such that a previous
block is not modifiable without modifying all the blocks in the
chain structure since that block [15]. Blockchain was brought
in the spotlight by Bitcoin [16], a peer-to-peer anonymous cash
system using blockchain technology.
After the fame of blockchain technology, it was introduced
in various fields. Consequently, structured scripting for ap-
plication development is increasingly required. Hence, in the
second generation of blockchain technology, smart contracts
have been introduced, which are the scripts executed upon
the occurrence of specific transactions. Smart contracts can
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Pa
tie
nt
D
oc
to
r
H
ap
ic
ar
e
Join Waiting-List
Patient Joined
Calls-in a Patient
Data Receieved
Call Started
Examines Make Diagnosis
Request Measurement
Prepare Medical File
Measure Vital Signs
New Data Received
Process Data
Write Report
Write Prescription
Modify Rules
Prescriptions Received
Update Medical File
Rules Updated
Fig. 1. The simplified process model of a teleconsultation session
be used to enforce additional transactions once a transaction
has happened, e.g., enforcing transaction of tax-paying upon
the transaction of a purchase. Ethereum [17] is an open-
source blockchain-based platform, in which smart contracts
are featured. It uses a modified version of the blockchain;
it consists of a state machine while any transaction passes
through a state transition. Hence, the next state relies on
the data in the previous state and the current transaction.
For example, in a cash system, the states are balance data
of different entities, and they are updated by a transaction
“transfer amount X from sender A to receiver B;” such that,
in the next state, the balance of entity A is deducted by X
while the balance of entity B has been increased the same
amount. In Ethereum, there is also a dedicated language for
composing smart contracts, namely Solidity. The methods of
Solidity code can be called via transactions. Although there
is no limitation of the size of contents in Ethereum, it is
not efficient to use it for the storage of extensive data [17].
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS) [18] is common practice to
deal with this limitation. IPFS is a distributed file system that
allows easy and transparent access to the extensive contents
of data. While the data are stored distributively among a peer-
to-peer network, each data instance has a unique address to
make the retrieval straight-forward.
B. Teleconsultation
Teleconsultation typically concerns two actors, namely a
doctor and a patient, while the shared resources are agenda,
waiting room, video channel, prescription, and consultation
report. However, in the HapiChain teleconsultation service,
we include Hapicare as an additional actor, and consequently,
its rules, sensor data, contextual information, and diagnosis
reports as additional resources.
Teleconsultation workflow starts by patients looking for an
appointment, which can be the result of a suggestion from
Hapicare. Patients select an available time-slot from those
provided by doctors to book an appointment. The main work-
flow occurs during the teleconsultation session, which starts
at the time of the appointment. The simplified process model
of this workflow is depicted in Figure 1. The teleconsultation
session starts with the patient logging into the system to join
the doctor’s virtual waiting room. The doctor will select one
patient at a time from his virtual waiting room to start the
video consultation. It is worthy to note - similar to a face-
to-face consultation- the doctor should have the option to
call-in a patient a few minutes around the appointment time.
It allows them to examine previous patients peacefully. The
doctor can view some primary information about the patients
in the waiting room to prepare for their consultation. During
this video consultation, the doctor can access the patient’s
EHRs as well as Hapicare sensor data, contextual information,
and reports. In the video consultation, the patient discusses
his concerns, and the doctor can pose questions to make
a diagnosis or even ask for additional measurements before
making a diagnosis. The patient can provide live measurements
using IoT sensors and transfer it to the doctor via Hapicare.
Once the doctor concludes the consultation, he will issue an
invoice and prescription to the patient. Prescriptions are not
limited to medications; they might also include additional
diagnostic steps such as laboratory examination or referring to
a specialist. Moreover, the doctor can update Hapicare rules
based on his new observations.
The workflow of teleconsultation is not necessarily similar
in all cases. Firstly, the procedures and methods of medical
care are ever-evolving, e.g., in the near future, it might be
required to directly send the prescriptions to the pharmacy,
instead of giving it to the patient. Secondly, in different cases,
medical consultations might consist of different actions, e.g.,
in some cases, a doctor might need to get a second opinion on a
diagnosis. Therefore, it is essential to consider the dynamicity
of workflow in designing.
Moreover, one of the concerns in teleconsultation is the
security of data. Even with traditional consultation, many
clinicians store the medical files of patients electronically;
but because of security concerns, they use isolated systems
and avoid sharing medical files between various centers.
Nevertheless, in teleconsultation, all the data are transmitted
through the internet; hence, the data are prone to manipulation
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Smart Contract (Solidity)
Source Authentication
Request Integrity
User Authentication
Access Control
Data Storage
IPFS
Blockchain Layer
Ethereum
DApp Layer
Interface Layer
Patient Doctor
Fig. 2. Structure of HapiChain Framework
and interception. To this end, we use blockchain technology
to address these concerns in HapiChain.
C. HapiChain
Given the discussed concerns on modularity and security,
we introduce HapiChain, a blockchain-based framework for
patient-centric telemedicine. An overview of its structure is
depicted in Figure 2. We opted for Ethereum [17] blockchain
as it provides simplicity and modularity in developing Dis-
tributed Applications (DApps). It is used in the platform layer
to support smart contracts and distributed storage. Smart con-
tracts are the core of HapiChain; they contain Solidity codes
for managing access to the storage and assuring the process of
the workflow. In HapiChain, there are two types of roles: (1)
users, which include doctors, patients and Hapicare system;
and (2) administrators, who can configure HapiChain. The
smart contracts of HapiChain are classified in the following
categories:
• Source Authentication: HapiChain is designed to be used
via a dedicated interface layer; hence, in order to avoid
any unauthorized requests, it is crucial to allow only
predefined sources of requests. In the Ethereum platform,
there is no limitation of execution by default, so to avoid
the process of requests from unauthorized sources, this
should be explicitly programmed. The administrator of
HapiChain is the only person who authorizes a request
source. For instance, in our proof-of-concept, we use
Hapicare as the interface layer. Hence HapiChain ignores
any requests unless it comes from Hapicare.
• Request Integrity: HapiChain needs to make sure that
the received request is an authentic request from the
authorized source. In other words, it needs to know that
requests have not tampered, e.g., the identification of
doctor or patient has not been modified in the request.
This integrity validation is achieved by using digital
signatures. In Hapicare, the parameters of the request are
hashed before transmission. Then in HapiChain, the hash
value is again computed and compared with the provided
hash. In the case of tampering, the hash values will not
match, and HapiChain will drop the request.
• User Authentication: Prior to access control, ensuring the
identity of the user is vital; hence, the user of Hapicare is
identified and authenticated in this set of smart contracts.
Hapicare performs the initial authentication, as a doctor
logins to its application. In HapiChain, before processing
requests from a doctor, his identification is searched
within a list to ensure that he is a registered doctor in
HapiChain. The HapiChain administrator can update this
list or delegate it to the Hapicare administrator.
• Access Control: The medical files are the most critical
information in the medical system. Hence, a set of
Solidity codes is dedicated to ensuring confidentiality and
also the integrity of the medical files. Access control can
be customized for each patient. In general, the access
control codes are classified into two sub-categories:
– Read Medical File: For instance, Hapicare consis-
tently uses a medical file for diagnosis of patients’
condition during telemonitoring; however, it may not
need to access to all of the medical files. Moreover,
during a teleconsultation, a doctor should be able to
access all the medical file of the patient.
– Modify Medical File: For example, the medical file
of a patient can be limited to be modifiable only by
his caregivers during allowed time.
The dynamic access control is one of the added values
of HapiChain. For the implementation of access controls
regarding read and modify medical files, a mapping is
defined in HapiChain, from an identification number of
an entity to the list of allowed requests of that entity.
Prior to any requests, the entity and the request are
verified using this mapping. The request, in the simplest
case, contains the patient’s identification number, type of
medical file (monitoring or consultation), type of request
(read or modify), and access period. For example, for
telemonitoring, the Hapicare system is allowed to access
only monitoring medical files of all patients for an infinite
time. Hapicare administrators can define these access
controls.
Because medical files can grow huge, it is hardly possible
to store them in the blockchain; hence they are stored using
IPFS [18] to ensure better scalability. For the confidentiality
and the privacy of these data, they are anonymized and
encrypted before storage. When the smart contracts verify that
the “modify” request is allowed, IPFS will store the new data
in a storage node, and the address is kept for future accesses.
Unless Hapicare has explicitly labeled the type of new data
as monitoring, the type will be consultation. In the case of
retrieval, the contents are loaded from the stored addresses.
The Hapicare system is used as an interface for communica-
tion with doctors and patients. This layer interacts with smart
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3. A view of virtual waiting room
contracts through the provided Application Programming In-
terfaces (APIs).
III. USE-CASE
The focus of the HapiChain framework is teleconsultation
service in complementary to telemonitoring. The use-case of
Hapicare [13] is continued with teleconsultation to depict how
HapiChain completes the remote treatment. In this use-case,
doctors and patients use Hapicare as a telemonitoring system
as well as an interface for HapiChain.
A. Scenario
Jack has diabetes mellitus type 2 and takes two units of
insulin injection prior to each meal. He uses Hapicare for self-
monitoring. Using the existing information and sensing ac-
tions, Hapicare diagnoses Jack with hypoglycemia and advises
him to eat carbohydrates (some biscuits)1. However, if Jack
is often diagnosed with hypoglycemia, it means his insulin
intake is not suitable for his lifestyle. Hence, his insulin needs
to be adjusted. However, this modification is too critical to
be done automatically, so Hapicare suggests that Jack take a
teleconsultation.
Jack’s Doctor, Dr. Smith, has provided a list of time slots
for teleconsultation; Jack can book one of them using the
Hapicare interface. In the time of the appointment, the process
will be followed, similar to Figure 1. Jack joins the virtual
waiting room of Dr. Smirth and waits until Dr. Smith starts his
consultation session. As shown in Figure 3, Dr. Smith can see
the online patients who are waiting to start their consultation,
as well as some additional information, namely his reason
for the consultation, age of the patient, and his chronic
diseases. For instance, the reason for Jack’s teleconsultation
1The video of this scenario is accessible through
https://youtu.be/KPvWQYZcUhs
is “Hapicare recurrent diagnosis of Hypoglycemia”, while his
age is 70, and his chronic condition is diabetes mellitus type
2, which is diagnosed in 2/10/2019. Such information helps
the doctor to prepare for the consultation. Once, Dr. Smith
calls-in Jack, the video call is established. In the meantime, Dr.
Smith requests for Jack’s medical file via Hapicare application.
The request is forwarded to HapiChain. The smart contracts
process the request to have the following conditions: (1) the
request comes from Hapicare (Source Authentication), (2)
the digital signature of the request matches the computed
hash value (Request Integrity), (3) The doctor is registered
in HapiChain (User Authentication), and (4) The doctor is
allowed to access the requested file on the current time (Access
Control). If the conditions are met, HapiChain will allow
access and sends the encrypted medical file to Hapicare, where
the medical file is decrypted and shown to Dr. Smith. Based
on analyzing the medical file and considering the reason for
appointment, which is frequent diagnoses of hypoglycemia,
Dr. Smith asks Jack to measure his blood sugar. Jack measures
it using his IoT-based glucometer, and then the measurement
is processed and transferred to Dr. Smith via Hapicare. Dr.
Smith notes that his blood sugar is currently regular, so in
general, his insulin intake is suitable. Dr. Smith investigates the
time of recurrent hypoglycemia and notes that most of them
happened at nights. He concludes that Jack probably takes light
dinners, and his dosage of insulin before dinner is too much
and causes him hypoglycemia; therefore, he prescribes Jack to
take only one unit of insulin before dinner. To ensure that the
new prescription is well suited for Jack, Dr. Smith configures
Hapicare rules to remind Jack to measure his fasting blood
sugar for the next seven days and book another appointment if
it is more than 131 mg/dL on average. As the teleconsultation
session ends, the new medical file consisting of the new
prescription, and a new measurement is encrypted and stored
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
using HapiChain. The access of Dr. Smith to the medical
file is also then terminated. Afterward, Hapicare continues
monitoring of Jack.
B. Discussion
The added values of HapiChain can be discussed in two
main categories: (1) the benefits of teleconsultaion and (2)
the benefits of blockchain technology. In the given scenario,
Dr. Smith has examined Jack and has adjusted his insulin
dosage. At the same time, neither of them has to leave
their comfort at home. Hence, teleconsultation saves time and
money on both sides of doctors and patients. The elderly and
patients with chronic diseases are usually at high risks of many
communicable diseases, seating in a waiting room alongside
other patients increases the chance of infection. Hence, using
teleconsultation is a healthier option for the patient.
Moreover, blockchain technology ensures the confidentiality
and privacy of the patient. The medical file of the patient
is encrypted and can be as limited as only accessible by
his doctor at the time of appointment. The use of smart
contracts in blockchain ensures that the medical files are not
tampered nor compromised. Moreover, blockchain technology
enables high scalability and interoperability as the process of
data management is uniform and transparent, which is coded
in smart contracts. Additionally, because all the reports of
consultations are stored in HapiChain and are tamper-proof,
fiscal management is transparent, and the chance of health
frauds are minimized.
IV. CONCLUSION
Due to longevity, societies are facing a massive number of
the elderly and patients with chronic diseases. In our previous
work, we covered the management of them at their living
location using Hapicare, telemonitoring of patients at their
living location is covered. It helps the patients to diagnose their
medical condition and provides them suitable suggestions.
Nevertheless, in many situations, the intervention of an expert,
i.e., a doctor, is required. Teleconsultation has been proven
to be more economically efficient, as it removes unnecessary
trips; moreover, it is a healthier option as it reduces the
chance of contamination. The challenge is the security and
the reliability of teleconsultation. To this end, we have pro-
posed HapiChain, a blockchain-based framework for patient-
centric telemedicine. It embeds Hapicare and completes it
by providing teleconsultation services. The use of blockchain
technology ensures the security, reliability, and scalability
of the service. We have discussed a use-case to show how
HapiChain is beneficial as an innovative teleconsultation ser-
vice. We have completed a cycle of remote treatment; Hapicare
continuously monitors the patient and provides suggestions.
When an expert’s intervention is required, HapiChain provides
a secure framework for teleconsultation. However, for future
work, it is essential to model the attacks and verify the security
of the HapiChain framework against the attacks. Moreover,
another prospective work is deploying HapiChain for a pilot
project to receive feedback from patients and clinicians.
REFERENCES
[1] Y. Wang, K. Hunt, I. Nazareth, N. Freemantle, and I. Petersen, “Do men
consult less than women? An analysis of routinely collected UK general
practice data,” BMJ Open, vol. 3, no. 8, p. e003320, Aug. 2013. [Online].
Available: http://bmjopen.bmj.com/lookup/doi/10.1136/bmjopen-2013-
003320
[2] United Nations, Department of Economic and Social Affairs, and
Population Division, World population ageing, 2017 highlights, 2017,
oCLC: 1082362390.
[3] J. Paget, P. Spreeuwenberg, V. Charu, R. J. Taylor, A. D.
Iuliano, J. Bresee, L. Simonsen, and C. Viboud, “Global mortality
associated with seasonal influenza epidemics: New burden estimates
and predictors from the GLaMOR Project,” Journal of Global
Health, vol. 9, no. 2, p. 020421, Dec. 2019. [Online]. Available:
http://jogh.org/documents/issue201902/jogh-09-020421.pdf
[4] M. O’Cathail, L. Aznar-Garcia, R. Bentley, P. Patel, and J. Christian,
“Teleconsultations Bringing specialist radiotherapy services to patients,”
Radiotherapy and Oncology, vol. 133, p. S894, Apr. 2019. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1016/S0167-8140(19)32081-X
[5] F. Bertuzzi, I. Stefani, B. Rivolta, B. Pintaudi, E. Meneghini, L. Luzi,
and A. Mazzone, “Teleconsultation in type 1 diabetes mellitus
(TELEDIABE),” Acta Diabetologica, vol. 55, no. 2, pp. 185–192, Feb.
2018. [Online]. Available: http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s00592-017-
1084-9
[6] M. Iansiti and K. R. Lakhani, “The Truth About Blockchain,” p. 11.
[7] J. Vora, A. Nayyar, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, N. Kumar, M. S.
Obaidat, and J. J. P. C. Rodrigues, “BHEEM: A Blockchain-
Based Framework for Securing Electronic Health Records,” in 2018
IEEE Globecom Workshops (GC Wkshps). Abu Dhabi, United
Arab Emirates: IEEE, Dec. 2018, pp. 1–6. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8644088/
[8] P. Zhang, J. White, D. C. Schmidt, G. Lenz, and S. T.
Rosenbloom, “FHIRChain: Applying Blockchain to Securely and
Scalably Share Clinical Data,” Computational and Structural
Biotechnology Journal, vol. 16, pp. 267–278, 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S2001037018300370
[9] HL7, “Summary - FHIR v4.0.1.” [Online]. Available:
http://hl7.org/fhir/summary.html
[10] A. Pukas, V. Smal, and V. Zabchuk, “Software Based on Blockchain
Technology for Consolidation the Medical Data about the Patients
Examination,” p. 5, 2018.
[11] “ICO Rating | Trusted ICO Listing Agency | ICO Stamp.” [Online].
Available: https://icostamp.com/
[12] K. Mannaro, G. Baralla, A. Pinna, and S. Ibba, “A Blockchain
Approach Applied to a Teledermatology Platform in the Sardinian
Region (Italy),” Information, vol. 9, no. 2, p. 44, Feb. 2018. [Online].
Available: http://www.mdpi.com/2078-2489/9/2/44
[13] H. Kordestani, R. Mojarad, A. Chibani, A. Osmani, Y. Amirat,
K. Barkaoui, and W. Zahran, “Hapicare: A Healthcare Monitoring
System with Self-Adaptive Coaching using Probabilistic Reasoning,”
in 2019 IEEE/ACS 16th International Conference on Computer
Systems and Applications (AICCSA). Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates: IEEE, Nov. 2019, pp. 1–8. [Online]. Available:
https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9035291/
[14] S. G. H. Natarajan, Harish Krause, Distributed Ledger
Technology and Blockchain. World Bank, 2017, eprint:
https://elibrary.worldbank.org/doi/pdf/10.1596/29053. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://elibrary.worldbank.org/doi/abs/10.1596/29053
[15] M. Nofer, P. Gomber, O. Hinz, and D. Schiereck, “Blockchain,” Business
& Information Systems Engineering, vol. 59, no. 3, pp. 183–187, Jun.
2017. [Online]. Available: http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s12599-017-
0467-3
[16] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,” p. 9,
2008.
[17] V. Buterin, “Ethereum White Paper: A Next-Generation Smart Contract
and Decentralized Application Platform,” 2014. [Online]. Available:
https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/White-Paper
[18] J. Benet, “IPFS - Content Addressed, Versioned, P2P File System,” p. 11.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:26 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.