<i>Anthropology and blockchain</i>
December 2021 – vol 37 – no 6
every two months 
print ISSN 0268-540X  online ISSN 1467-8322 
available online at  
www.wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/anth 
at
anthropology 
today
Director of the RAI: David Shankland
Editor: Gustaaf Houtman
News Editor: Matthias Kloft
Copy Editors: Miranda Irving & Justin Dyer
Production Consultant: Dominique Remars
Editorial Panel: Monique Borgerhoff Mulder, 
Candis Callison, Thomas Hylland Eriksen, 
Richard Fardon, Alma Gottlieb, Hugh Gusterson, 
Ulf Hannerz, Michael Herzfeld, Solomon Katz, 
Catherine Lutz, Howard Morphy, Gísli Pálsson, João 
de Pina-Cabral, John Postill, Gustavo Lins Ribeiro, 
Alexander F. Robertson, Nancy Scheper-Hughes, 
Cris Shore, Michael Wesch
Editorial address: Please read Notes to Contributors 
before making submissions (http://www.therai.
org.uk/at/). Submissions: http://at.edmgr.com. All 
articles are peer-reviewed. Editorial correspondence 
(except subscriptions, changes of address etc.) via 
anthropologytoday@gmail.com. Postal address: 
The Editor, ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY, Royal 
Anthropological Institute, 50 Fitzroy Street, London 
W1T 5BT, UK. 
Copy dates: 15th of even months.
Publisher: John Wiley & Sons Ltd, 9600 Garsington 
Road, Oxford OX4 2DQ, UK and 350 Main Street, 
Malden, MA 02148, USA. 
Disclaimer: The Publisher, RAI and Editors cannot 
be held responsible for errors or any consequences 
arising from the use of information contained in 
this journal; the views and opinions expressed do 
not necessarily reflect those of the Publisher, the 
RAI or the Editors, neither does the publication of 
advertisements constitute any endorsement by the 
Publisher, the RAI or the Editors of the products 
advertised.
Copyright and copying: © 2021 RAI. All rights 
reserved. No part of this publication may be 
reproduced, stored or transmitted in any form or by 
any means without prior permission in writing from 
the copyright holder. Authorization to copy items for 
internal and personal use is granted by the copyright 
holder for libraries and other users registered 
with their local Reproduction Rights Organisation 
(RRO), e.g. Copyright Clearance Center (CCC), 222 
Rosewood Drive, Danvers, MA 01923, USA (http://
www.copyright.com), provided the appropriate fee 
is paid directly to the RRO. This consent does not 
extend to other kinds of copying such as copying for 
general distribution, for advertising or promotional 
purposes, for creating new collective works or for 
resale. Special requests should be addressed to: 
permissions@wiley.com.
Information for subscribers: Six issues  
of ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY are mailed free of 
charge per annum to Fellows and Members  
of the Royal Anthropological Institute  
(registered charity no. 246269). 
Rates for 2022: Member: €31.50, £27.30 or US$45. 
Single copy: £9 UK, or $21 overseas plus VAT where 
applicable. Visit http://www.therai.org.uk/joining. 
Contact: admin@therai.org.uk.
Institutional subscriptions for 2022: Institutional 
print + online: £168 (UK), US$270 (N. America), 
€206 (Europe) and $289 (Rest of the World). Prices 
are exclusive of tax. Asia-Pacific GST, Canadian 
GST/HST and European VAT will be applied at 
the appropriate rates. Current tax rates: www.
wileyonlinelibrary.com/tax-vat. Price includes 
online access to current and all online back files 
to 1 January 2017, where available. For other 
pricing options, access information and terms and 
conditions: www.wileyonlinelibrary.com/access. 
Delivery terms and legal title: Where the 
subscription price includes print issues and delivery 
is to the recipient’s address, delivery terms are 
Delivered at Place (DAP); the recipient is responsible 
for paying any import duty or taxes. Title to all issues 
transfers FOB our shipping point, freight prepaid. We 
endeavour to fulfil claims for missing or damaged 
copies within six months of publication, within our 
reasonable discretion and subject to availability.
Periodical ID: ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY (0268-
540X) is published bimonthly. US mailing agent: 
Mercury Media Processing, LLC, 1850 Elizabeth 
Avenue, Suite #C, Rahway, NJ 07065, USA. 
Periodical postage paid at Rahway NJ. Postmaster: 
send all address changes to ANTHROPOLOGY 
TODAY, John Wiley & Sons Inc., C/O The Sheridan 
Press, PO Box 465, Hanover, PA 17331, USA.
© RAI 2021. Printed in Singapore by  
COS Printers Pte Ltd. 
We live in a troubled world, fraught with uncertainties and 
grim forebodings. Just half a decade ago, Sherry Ortner’s 
vision of anthropology as dark and (over-)focused on the 
harsh and distraught realities of social life (Ortner 2016) 
positioned our discipline somehow apart from the triad of 
upbeat sociology, political science, and economics (which 
was unwilling to shake off its positive origins in the USA of 
the 1950s). Yet now, dark is the order of the day: looming 
climate and biodiversity crises; the Covid-19 pandemic and 
its consequences; and dramatic economic inequalities (no 
longer only ‘out there’, in the developing world).
The digital/IT also looms large in contemporary dys-
topian imaginaries. When we think about artificial intel-
ligence, big data, digital platforms, blockchain, to name 
just a few key technologies, we increasingly think of them 
in terms of control, coercion, profiteering, and supplanting 
human agency, rather than freedom, the good life, and 
new opportunities. However, in this essay, as both social 
anthropologists and scholars of blockchain, we will argue 
that this technology somehow stands apart from the digital 
Leviathan and gives a frail hope of novel, weird, grassroots, 
decentralized forms of social life. These hold the promise 
of a more human-centred, radically experimental economy 
– where individuals and communities set the rules. 
Although we may not (yet) witness a shift back from 
impersonal/commercial exchanges towards gift exchange, 
the very essence of money is becoming less reified and less 
likely to engender alienation. Oddly enough, Keith Hart 
(2005: 171) presaged this long before the advent of the 
crypto economy when he said that money symbolizes ‘our 
individual relationship to the community. This relationship 
may be conceived of, much as the state would have it, as a 
durable ground … Or it may be viewed as a more creative 
process where we each generate the personal credit linking 
us to society in the form of multiple communities.’
* * *
Blockchain emerged as a buzzword along with Bitcoin 
after the 2008 crisis, as an antidote to the esoteric and arbi-
trary management of the banks and financiers (Campbell-
Verduyn & Hütten 2019). Yet this technology is not 
necessarily bound to finance: blockchain, in the simplest 
terms, is a set of data blocks connected by cryptographic 
tools in such a way as to make it impossible to change 
the contents of one block without modifying the others. 
Hence the ongoing confusion of blockchain with Bitcoin 
(and other cryptocurrencies, as the most hyped application 
of blockchain).
The blockchain is a ledger stored in a network of decen-
tralized nodes, and all recorded transactions are trans-
parent to each member of the network. This approach to 
data processing (decentralized and distributed) prevents 
retroactive data modification (e.g. for fraudulent pur-
poses). Blockchain allows the verification of the status of 
any data by a distributed network of computers (nodes) 
that do not belong to a single person or organization. Thus, 
this technology provides a tamper-proof and, at the same 
time, open system.
Blockchain was propelled from an obscure IT gimmick 
to a game-changer thanks to Bitcoin, an electronic cur-
rency that incorporated three key features: cryptographic 
tools; a way to achieve consensus within the system when 
users do not trust each other; and remuneration to net-
work participants for maintaining its operation (‘mining’). 
Cryptocurrencies have attracted the resources of millions 
Anthropology and blockchain
Guest Editorial by Artyom Kosmarski & 
Nikolay Gordiychuk
Artyom Kosmarski & Nikolay 
Gordiychuk  1
Anthropology and blockchain
Velina Ninkova  3
Towards decentralized anthropological 
scholarship: Some ethical considerations
Kelley Sams, Chiara Alfieri, Fleur 
Beauvieux, Marc Egrot, Firmin Kra, 
Carlotta Magnani, Francesca Mininel 
& Sandrine Musso  5
‘…but not gagged’: Responding to Covid-
19 and its control measures in France, 
Italy and the USA
Laura Rival  9
Anthropocene and the dawn of a 
planetary civilization
Giacomo Pozzi  13
Ghostly real estate: Haunting, debt and 
capitalist realism in Milan
Roza Laptander & Piers Vitebsky  17
The Covid-19 app and the fire spirit: 
Receiving messages in Britain and 
Siberia
Simona Sienkiewicz  21
Living far from home: Javanese culture 
among transmigrants
Johannes Lenhard  25
Towards fully automated investing? 
How venture capitalists are making the 
economic future old-fashioned
NEWS 28  CLASSIFIED 29
2 ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY VOL 37 NO 6, DECEMBER 2021
of people by creating a means of payment that does not 
depend on the authority of the central bank, courts or 
police – where the algorithm itself guarantees the execu-
tion and the reliability of transactions (Swartz 2018).
Like any other (emergent) technology, blockchain 
evolves in many often conflicting and contested imagi-
naries, discourses and practices. Its techno-anarchist/lib-
ertarian genealogy brought revolutionary expectations in 
the mid-2010s: the days of the state and the central bank 
would be over as the ‘neutral’ technology guarantees 
trust in the interactions between people and institutions. 
Decentralizing features of blockchain ushered in a promise 
to foster transparent democratic decision-making, to set up 
new communities based on standard rules set in code.
* * *
One influential concept was the DAO (decentralized 
autonomous organization): a programmed set of rules, 
which are transparent, controlled by peer-to-peer interac-
tions and not influenced by a central authority, public or pri-
vate (Beutel 2018). Talk was rife about blockchain setting 
the infrastructure for the ‘post-capitalist planet’ with new 
forms of economy and politics (Manski & Bauwens 2020).
This should also have been an exciting field for anthro-
pologists, with the possibility of doing an ethnography 
of IT experts, startup founders and other ‘crypto people’ 
– particularly the langue/parole gap between their state-
ments (e.g. white papers and the code itself) and their prac-
tices: how transactions mediate; how communities form; 
what conflicts unfurl; which political values lie behind 
seemingly neutral solutions (‘mere technology’).
There are some fine ethnographies of blockchain (Faustino 
2019; Husain al. 2020), but their small number is at odds with 
the significance of this field and its impact on society.
Meanwhile, by 2018-2020, the ‘third parties’ (the states 
and corporations) had got to grips with the disruptions of 
blockchain and started utilizing the technology for their 
own ends. Decentralization and peer-to-peer interactions 
became less critical while other features moved to the fore.
For governments, blockchain matters as a novel tech-
nology of public administration, increasing transparency 
and accountability. Corporate agents have been looking 
for the same thing, only on a company scale. They have 
also encouraged automation (through smart contracts, 
especially in logistics and supply chain management) and 
monopolization (blockchain as the code of a single plat-
form where various players in an industry might partici-
pate, e.g. TradeLens by IBM, and Maersk in shipping).
This trend has coincided with the anti-globalization 
movement, the rise of surveillance capitalism (Zuboff 
2019) and the resurgence of state borders/sovereignty 
during the current pandemic. It contrasts with the crack-
down of Chinese authorities on Bitcoin and the harsh EU/
US regulatory response to Libra, Facebook’s planned 
cryptocurrency.
Still, everything is now getting more complicated. As 
smartphones and internet access become ubiquitous and 
early visionary projects reach maturity, increasingly com-
pelling uses of blockchain are evident – especially in areas 
where control of the state and big business is thinner (e.g. 
in Africa), or in the crevices of large structures.
* * *
A key element involves decentralized finance (DeFi) 
beyond cryptocurrencies transacted on decentralized 
peer-to-peer exchanges using lending protocols, including 
insurance platforms. Self-sovereign identity (SSI) and 
decentralized identifiers (DID) are blockchain-based tools 
that allow people to prove their identity and various cre-
dentials (including professional record or academic perfor-
mance) without reliance on Google/AppleID or state-run 
offices. In addition, decentralized autonomous organiza-
tions (DAOs) have become more practical and accessible 
tools for decentralized dispute resolution, verifiable voting 
and transparent decision-making for any collective.
These phenomena are worth studying. One may encounter 
them in the anthropology of the informal economy, partisan 
finance, education, social movements and NGOs. We, as 
researchers, can now peek into a vast playground of eco-
nomic anthropology: a multitude of projects that question, 
put to the test or reimagine basic assumptions of main-
stream economics (kudos to Karl Polanyi): What is value? 
What is money? What is an exchange?
The starting point for the crypto/blockchain economy 
is a token – a unit of value programmed and operated on 
a blockchain.1 Few fully understand what a token is. The 
inertia of familiar social and economic structures makes 
us think of tokens as surrogate money, equities, bonds, and 
so on. However, they can be much more complex. Tokens 
are not monetary units like cryptocurrencies but techno-
logically protected abstract units of value, whose meaning 
and operation rules are defined by a community of users. 
For example, one could tokenize gratitude for reviewing 
academic papers and prohibit selling such units (only 
giving them as a gift). Or one could tokenize votes for the 
authority of a scientist’s stance on a particular issue.
The political economy of blockchain projects may 
sometimes be naïve or faulty. Still, we are arriving at 
new frontiers, where votes and capital, quantitative and 
qualitative, politics and economics, subjective feelings 
and quantifiable indicators are experimented with, with no 
definitive solutions.
For sure, one should remain critical of enthusiastic state-
ments by blockchain visionaries and entrepreneurs and 
pay attention to complicated realities ‘on the ground’. In 
one excellent study of the blockchain scene in Kenya, it 
turned out that the central government, routinely vilified as 
an adversary of the decentralized logics and transparency 
of blockchain, emerged, paradoxically, as an indispensable 
ally. Very few projects could survive without public sup-
port, persuasion (to make people trust blockchain) and 
regulatory assistance.
And the authors pose challenging questions:
Are African entrepreneurs even willing to partner with govern-
ments they view as inefficient or corrupt? What Pan-African 
opportunities arise given that blockchain technology knows no 
borders? If blockchain becomes available to most, can it replace 
many government functions such as voting and land registry? 
Do government officials craft policy in a decentralized world 
or take on more of an administrative role? Are African cultures 
better suited for these models given their strong emphasis on 
community and their need for transparent governance struc-
tures? (Sydow et al. 2020)
* * *
Still, we do not claim that blockchain may fix every-
thing. Anthropologists operate within academia (leaving 
aside other allegiances and commitments), and academia 
is no enchanted island. We know all too well about ‘pub-
lish or perish’, precarious positions, biased reviewers, 
immanent inequalities, and the like. Nevertheless, a 
fruitful similarity exists: peer-to-peer interactions without 
a central governing body are core both to blockchain and 
to science (peer review as the crucial procedure and the 
networks of invisible colleges).
Blockchain and its associated technologies (DeFI, smart 
contracts) are no saviour. Yet, they could act as a tool with 
which to implement bold ideas to make academia more 
accessible, transparent, unbiased, rich with alternative 
decision-making and funding devices. For example, it is 
possible to set up community-driven decisions on papers 
to be published, thus encouraging more active participa-
tion of authors/reviewers in editorial policy (Kosmarski & 
Gordiychuk 2020).
An idea that we find particularly promising is the utili-
zation of blockchain infrastructure to distribute expertise/
Artyom Kosmarski is a deputy 
head of the Laboratory for 
the Study of Blockchain 
in Education and Science 
(LIBON), State Academic 
University for the Humanities 
(GAUGN), Moscow, and 
a senior researcher at the 
Institute of Cultural Studies, 
HSE University, Moscow. His 
email is kosmarski@gaugn.ru.
Nikolay Gordiychuk is a 
researcher at the State 
Academic University for the 
Humanities (GAUGN).
This guest editorial was 
prepared under assignment 
from the Ministry of Science 
and Higher Education of the 
Russian Federation (topic No. 
FZNF-2020-0014 ‘Modern 
Information Society and Digital 
Science: Cognitive, Economic, 
Political, and Legal Aspects’). 
1. Erik Bordeleau (2017) 
provides some useful thoughts 
on the meanings and futures of 
tokens. 
Beutel, T. 2018. Decentralizing 
power, competence and 
incentives: A case study 
on emerging visions in the 
blockchain space. MA thesis, 
University of Edinburgh 
Business School. https://
www.researchgate.net/
publication/327427029.
Bordeleau, E. 2017. We don’t 
know yet what a token can 
do. Medium, 12 September. 
https://medium.com/
economic-spacing/we-dont-
know-yet-what-a-token-can-
do?1d76671303ed.
Campbell-Verduyn, M. & 
M. Hütten 2019. Beyond 
scandal? Blockchain 
technologies and the 
legitimacy of post-2008 
finance. Finance and Society 
5 (2): 126-144.
Faustino, S. 2019. How 
metaphors matter: An 
ethnography of blockchain-
based re-descriptions of the 
world. Journal of Cultural 
Economy 12 (6): 478-490.
Hart, K. 2005. Money: One 
anthropologist’s view. In 
A handbook of economic 
anthropology (ed.) J.G. Carrier. 
Cheltenham: Edward Elgar.
Husain, S.O., et al. 2020. 
The political imaginaries 
of blockchain projects. 
Sustainability Science 15: 
379-394.
Kalfa, S., et al. 2018. The 
academic game: Compliance 
and resistance in universities. 
Work, Employment and 
Society 32 (2): 274-291.
Kosmarski, A. & N. 
Gordiychuk 2020. Token-
curated registry in a scholarly 
journal: Can blockchain 
support journal communities? 
Learned Publishing 33: 
333-339.
Manski, S. & M. Bauwens 
2020. Reimagining new 
socio-technical economics 
through the application 
of distributed ledger 
technologies. Frontiers in 
Blockchain 23 Jan. 
Muller, J.Z. 2018. The tyranny 
of metrics. Princeton: 
Princeton University Press.
 14678322, 2021, 6, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://rai.onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/1467-8322.12683 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [14/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
ANTHROPOLOGY TODAY VOL 37 NO 6, DECEMBER 2021 3
metrics across the whole community of scholars. Usually, 
evaluations are conducted periodically behind closed 
doors by a narrow circle of experts overburdened with pro-
cedures or by managerial outsiders to academia. Instead, 
the entire scientific community could be invited openly, in 
real time, using decentralized technology.
The metrics would no longer be imposed as a crude 
and alien measuring tool from the outside. Instead, they 
would organically grow out of the community’s rules. 
This approach would make academics less inclined to 
disengage and become alienated from the very process 
of how universities and research institutions are run 
and evaluated – the ‘metrics craze’ (Kalfa et al. 2018; 
Muller 2018).
Quite a few reasonable blockchain projects for academia 
have been either proposed or launched. Yet, almost none 
have acquired the status of such killer apps as Telegram or 
Google Scholar. Why is this? One explanation is that aca-
demia seems to split into ‘tribes’ cherishing their standards 
and differences, in contrast to a more homogeneous ‘crowd’ 
of incentive-driven Bitcoin miners. Another is that scholars 
rely on stable institutional structures in their everyday prac-
tices, and the hot DeFi plasma does not appear particularly 
welcoming or attractive to them. Finally, decentralized, 
ground-up solutions require serious engagement and com-
mitment from individual scholars and the whole commu-
nity, which is not easy given the stress of other obligations. 
There is still time, however. The game is not over. l
Ortner, S.B. 2016. Dark 
anthropology and its others. 
HAU: Journal of Ethnographic 
Theory 6 (1): 47-73.
Swartz, L. 2018. What was 
Bitcoin, what will it be? 
Cultural Studies 32(4): 623-
650.
Sydow, A., et al. 2020. 
Leveraging blockchain’s 
potential. Journal of Business 
Venturing Insights 14: e00170.
Zuboff, S. 2019. The age of 
surveillance capitalism. 
London: Profile Books.
The year 2020 witnessed the accelerated unravelling of 
our social, economic and political structures. Overnight, 
Covid-19 transformed public and private lives and 
reinforced long-voiced injustices. Academia is not an 
inherently equal space even among the privileged, and 
ethnicity, race, gender, sexual orientation, age, class 
and ability intersect and act to the disadvantage of most 
(Malisch et al. 2020). In disciplines such as anthropology, 
the epidemic recentred another already-articulated truth. 
The constitutive long-term ‘fieldwork as a rite of pas-
sage’ is a masculinist fantasy, and ‘in the field’, just as 
‘at home’, not all ‘men’ are created equal (see Berry et al. 
2017). Concerns about ‘our communities’, which we have 
often chosen as ‘ours’ precisely because of their historical 
experiences of oppression and marginalization, sent fur-
ther shocks along our already fractured lines. 
Will they cope, and if so, at what cost? The reckoning 
will be long and complex and require restructuring old and 
new values, practices and relations. Setting our sights on 
a post-pandemic world, while alluring in its urgency, is a 
futile task. Just as Foucault (1977) suggested that instead 
of ‘origins’, we should focus on ‘emergence’, so too 
instead of ‘endings’, we may want to think in terms of ‘co-
endurance’. The future, once again – but this time perhaps 
more than ever – is not quite what it used to be.
The global pandemic has also contributed to the fast-
tracking and the broader international (institutional but 
also cultural) adoption of emergent technologies such as 
blockchain. The subversive possibilities of such technolo-
gies may address some of the injustices regarding access, 
equity and participation outlined above. The adoption of 
blockchain and new channels for decentralized scholarly 
production, communication and ownership that these 
technologies facilitate also demands that we rethink and 
rebuild the relationships we have forged with communities 
and individuals the world over. This essay is an invita-
tion for a multiperspective dialogue on some of the ques-
tions we, as anthropologists, must consider at the dawn of 
decentralized publishing and science. What does the future 
of decentralized anthropological scholarship look like, and 
what are the political, moral and ethical values we must 
consider, commit to and take action over?
The blockchain is a collaboratively managed and dis-
tributed write-only ledger that keeps track of a shared 
database of synchronized and replicated records (Janowicz 
et al. 2018; Swartz 2017; van Rossum 2017). One of its 
allures lies in its potential to evade prohibitive central 
authorities and directly empower its participants across 
geographical, economic, political and cultural borders. Its 
applications span beyond the realm of cryptocurrencies. 
Indeed, not long from now, a wide array of data, services, 
goods and contracts will be stored, accessed and shared 
through blockchain.
Enter academia. The global technological advancement 
of the past two decades has led to attempts to democratize 
science and increase quality through umbrella initiatives 
such as open scholarship and open science. Yet, as Miller 
(2021) has argued, technology is not value-neutral but 
modelled after the normative contexts from which it has 
emerged. Initiatives such as Open Access, for example, 
have failed to bridge the North-South divide and secure 
the hoped-for rapid and widespread communication of 
research findings (Tennant et al. 2016). 
Publishers continue to serve as gatekeepers who profit 
from charging both readers and authors in the process (van 
Noorden 2013). Coupled with the impact of longstanding 
linguistic, ethnic and gender bias (Drieschová 2020; 
Helmer et al. 2017; Politzer-Ahles et al. 2020), slow pub-
lishing cycles and lack of recognition for the demanding 
work of peer reviewers (Cintas 2016), the state of aca-
demic publishing seems firmly entrenched in its time-
tested, colonial and patriarchal model.
Recent efforts in the field of decentralized publishing 
offer glimpses of alternative modes. Picture this: the infra-
structure moves from the hands of publishers to the scien-
tific community (Tenorio-Fornés et al. 2019). Transcripts 
uploaded to a blockchain platform allow editors transpar-
ently to access the most suitable reviewers, who promptly 
perform the task and receive recognition for their work. 
The communication process between editors, reviewers 
and authors is fast and seamless, as is the distribution of, 
discovery of and access to research findings in the form of 
articles, books, data, and so on. 
Research outputs are not authoritative monolithic bodies 
impervious to change; instead, they may be added to and 
developed over time – the ledger can easily keep track of a 
scholarly text’s evolution. The academic output will trans-
form from static to processual (Janowicz et al. 2018; Janze 
2017; Novotny et al. 2018; van Rossum 2017). Today’s 
‘wrongly assigned incentive structures’ will be replaced 
by incentive models that ensure the equal treatment of 
articles, reviews and data. Native cryptocurrencies can 
incentivize reputable work performed by authors, editors, 
reviewers and network operators. This incentive will also 
help improve the process’s quality, speed and fairness 
(Janze 2017). In sum, decentralized publishing through 
Velina Ninkova
Velina Ninkova is a postdoctoral 
fellow with the project 
Indigenous Citizenship and 
Education (funded by the 
Research Council of Norway) 
at the Centre for Sami Studies 
at the University of Tromsø, the 
Arctic University of Norway. Her 
email is velina.ninkova@uit.no.
Berry, M.J., et al. 2017. Toward a 
fugitive anthropology: Gender, 
race, and violence in the field. 
Cultural Anthropology 32 (4): 
537-565.
Cintas, P. 2016. Peer review: 
From recognition to improved 
practices. FEMS Microbiology 
Letters 363 (12): fnw115.
Drieschová, A. 2020. Failure, 
persistence, luck and bias in 
academic publishing. New 
Perspectives 28 (2): 145-149.
Foucault, M. 1977. Nietzsche, 
genealogy and history. In 
Language, counter-memory, 
practice: selected essays and 
interviews (ed. D.F. Bouchard). 
Ithaca: Cornell University 
Press.
Helmer, M., et al. 2017. Gender 
bias in scholarly peer review. 
eLife 6: e21718.
Janowicz, K., et al. 2018. On the 
prospects of blockchain and 
distributed ledger technologies 
for open science and academic 
publishing. Semantic Web 9 
(5): 545-555.
Janze, C. 2017. Design of a 
decentralized peer-to-peer 
reviewing and publishing 
market. In Proceedings of the 
25th European Conference on 
Information Systems (ECIS), 
Guimaraes, Portugal, June 
5-10: 1713-1725.
Kosmarski, A. 2020. Blockchain 
adoption in academia: 
Promises and challenges. 
Journal of Open Innovation: 
Technology, Market, and 
Complexity 6 (4): 117.
Kouzes, R.T., et al. 1996. 
Collaboratories: Doing science 
on the internet. Computer 29 
(8): 40-46.
Towards decentralized anthropological scholarship
Some ethical considerations
 14678322, 2021, 6, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://rai.onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/1467-8322.12683 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [14/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense