Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
Chapter 7
Evolving Role of Sustainable
Procurement in Coming Decades
7.1 Introduction
Ever since the focus of public procurement shifted from a simple resource procure-
ment tool to a set of capabilities that can generate multiple values for an organi-
zation, its role has constantly been evolving. After being established as an impor-
tant SDG component (SDG12.7), the advancement of sustainable procurement as a
vital component of global effort to achieve sustainable consumption and production
patterns is guaranteed, even more so considering the linkage and interdependence
of different SDGs. It is also certain that policymakers and other stakeholders will
increasingly consider using public procurement for meeting diverse objectives in the
coming decades.
However, sustainable procurement policy will have to compete with other
economic, fiscal, and market tools and prove its efficacy in addressing emerging
global challenges to remain relevant as a preferred choice for policymakers. Today,
policymakers and leaders articulate SPPpolicy as a tool for achieving green economy,
circular economy, ending poverty, achieving gender equality, reducing the incidence
of Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR); the list goes on. This chapter discusses ongoing
deliberations related to various uses of sustainable procurement and reflects on how
sustainable procurement will evolve from here in the context of sweeping changes
taking place in various fields.
7.1.1 Sustainable Procurement in the Context
of International Trade
International trade is a powerful tool for creating jobs, enabling efficient use of
resources, providing incentives to industries, and improving thewell-being of people;
it thus has substantial influences on global sustainability (UNCTAD2014). The use of
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
S. Kumar, Understanding Sustainable Public Procurement,
Public Administration, Governance and Globalization 21,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-08258-0_7
351
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-031-08258-0_7&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-08258-0_7
352 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
public procurement in this domain for achieving sustainability goals should be seen
as a complementary instrument. In reality, public procurement to support national
broader interests is perceived as a non-tariff barrier to free trade. Therefore, using
public procurement to support national development efforts has become an essential
part of the agenda in bilateral and multilateral trade negotiations. The main focus of
such negotiations has been to facilitate the participation of international suppliers at
par with local suppliers of goods and services in public procurement above certain
thresholds to promote an open-market economy.
TheAgreement onGovernment Procurement (GPA), which is a plurilateral agree-
ment within the WTO framework, regulates public procurement. It came into exis-
tence in 1979 under the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT) and was
later revised in 1996 and 2012. The provision of GPA applies to the procuring entities
specified by each country in the “schedule” of goods and services and to procurement
contracts exceeding a given financial threshold. In totality, the revised GPA provides
market access opportunities amounting to US$1.7 trillion annually.1
The critical question at the centre of conversations is whether the pursuit of social
and environmental concerns in public procurement is in linewith theGPAprovisions.
Alternatively, does the pursuit of horizontal objectives by Member States of GPA
hinder international trade? To find the answers to these questions, one needs to
understand the basic GPA framework. The GPA provides a framework of rights and
obligations. Parties agree that suppliers in signatory countries will not be treated
less favourably than domestic suppliers in procurement covered by the Agreement.
However, many developing and emerging economies have viewed this as an obstacle
in pursuing national development objectives. They fear that opening a government
procurement market to foreign suppliers might adversely impact their industries and
job creation opportunities. That is why only a few countries have signed on to this
Agreement despite it guaranteeing access to a trillion dollars market!
During the 1990s, GPAwas perceived as a safeguardmechanism to discourage the
pursuit of secondary policy goals through procurement because they can potentially
be abused as disguised protectionism, besides distorting markets and competition.
However, a lot has changed since then in public procurement, and many signatory
countries of the GPA have adopted a legal framework on sustainable public procure-
ment. The Preamble to Marrakesh Agreement Establishing the World Trade Orga-
nization highlights “the optimal use of the world’s resources in accordance with the
objective of sustainable development” as an overarching goal of the system. Article
III, theWTOGPA,mentions “nothing in this agreement shall be construed to prevent
any Party from imposing or enforcing measures necessary to protect human, animal,
or plant life or health.” A broader interpretation of this article, thus, means that
public procurement policy could be used for achieving strategic objectives such as
protection of the environment, biodiversity, forest cover, prevention of pollution and
waste generation, protection of the health of humans and animals, etc. Therefore,
the revised GPA 2012 is not only about trade liberalization and good governance but
also about sustainable development.
1 WTO, Geneva (Switzerland): https://e-gpa.wto.org/en/GPAInBrief. Accessed 17 February 2021.
https://e-gpa.wto.org/en/GPAInBrief
7.1 Introduction 353
Article X of the GPA states that technical specification should be set out in terms
of performance rather than design or descriptive characteristics and based on inter-
national standards, national regulations, or recognized national standards. It further
elaborates that contracting authority may use a technical specification to promote the
conservation of natural resources and protect the environment. Article X.9 further
allows contracting authority to set price andother cost factors, quality, technicalmerit,
environmental characteristics, and delivery terms as evaluation criteria. Thus, it gives
flexibility to contracting authority to use environmental characteristics and set appro-
priate relative weight for evaluating a tender. These provisions strengthen the hands
of contracting authorities in integrating environmental concerns in procurement deci-
sions, provided the condition of non-discrimination is satisfied. Thus, the GPA does
not place any barrier in integrating environmental concerns in purchasing decisions
by national and sub-national governments; instead, it promotes such practices.
There are no explicit provisions regarding social issues in the GPA. In the absence
of such a support, many have relied on the general principle of non-discrimination,
which is the cornerstone of international trade, to argue in favor of theGPAsupporting
inclusion of social considerations in procurement decisions. The EU has come up
with its own set of rules for promoting social dimensions of sustainability through
procurement, although the primary objective of the EU’s procurement directive is to
create a single market. The WTO GPA prohibits origin-based discrimination only
when procurement value is above the threshold limit and falls within the scope and
coverage of the agreement. Casier (2019) supports this argument and has noted
that the Agreement does not cover origin-based procurement below the threshold
limit, or the exception explicitly listed in its Annex 7 General Notes. TheWTOGPA
even permits preferential treatment to specific groups (such as SMEs, women-owned
businesses, or social enterprises) in procurement, based on characteristics other than
the origin, provided it is not used to favor local suppliers implicitly. Semple Abby
(2017) has argued that USA and Canada have used these features of the GPA and
entered certain limitations to its coverage in its Annex 7 General Notes. Accordingly,
they have been pursuing their national development objectives—favoring small or
minority-owned businesses, including set-asides, price preference, and exclusive
rights to provide goods and services—by explicitly listing them as exempt in the
annexes or not linked to national origin (Casier 2019).
Therefore, it could be seen that a contracting authority in any signatory country to
theGPAhas the freedom to decide its requirement in terms ofwhat is to be purchased.
The GPA generally enforces how those purchases are made by prescribing a detailed
procedure. Similarly, the GPA only cares about how standards, public or private, are
made rather than their substance. The use of the words “or equivalent” in tender
description acts as an effective guarantee to vendors to establish compliance to the
label or standard specified in a tender in alternative manners. Therefore, the use of
ecolabel/voluntary standards in the tender description would not invite any sanction
from the GPA unless an ecolabeling program effectively denies market access or
discriminates against another country’s goods.
In a nutshell, the technical specifications and award criteria in the GPA explicitly
endorse environmental concerns in procurement decisions for promoting national
354 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
objectives. Although there is no explicit mention of social concerns in the GPA (as
discussed), provision regarding international standards provides enough opportu-
nity to use social standards like Fair Trade, SA 8000 for procurement of goods
and services. Steiner (2018) has argued that even if social aspects are not explicitly
mentioned, one can use them as long as procurement is consistent with the basic
principle of the GPA, such as non-discrimination and transparency. There is “con-
structive ambiguity” surrounding social aspects, which means that though there is
no complete agreement on everything, a program has been put in place to discuss
this in more detail and arrive at a consensus. Thus, it gives flexibility to signatories
to the GPA to use social aspects in procuring goods and services.
Most members of the WTO GPA, such as the EU, the USA, Canada, Australia,
Japan, Republic of Korea, New Zealand, China, and Hong Kong, have a long history
of sustainable procurement programs. They have well-established legal policies and
institutional frameworks to promote sustainability in their procurement decisions.
They can leverage their public procurement power to enhance their procurement deci-
sions’ environmental and social sustainability outcomeswhile still being a party to the
GPA. Steiner (2018) has noted that EU’s directives on public procurement regarding
sustainability issues are, in a sense, interpretations of the GPA. Such a broad use of
procurement to pursue the environmental and social objectives shows that at amacro-
level, there is no conflict in promoting sustainability objectives through government
procurement and promoting international trade and market access through a binding
agreement such as the GPA. Therefore, based on the overwhelming evidence, opin-
ions, and literature, it can be concluded that the GPA does not in any way prohibit
the inclusion of environmental and social sustainability in procurement decisions.
However, it is also noted that, despite the GPA’s existence since 1979, only 20
parties representing 48WTOmembers have ratified it. This demonstrates that public
procurement remains a highly sensitive issue in all countries, including industrial-
ized ones. For example, President of the USA signed an Executive Order in January
2021 to maximize the use of taxpayer dollars on domestic products and services in
order to strengthen the industrial activities and create local jobs. Political pressures
to do more for domestic industries through public procurement exist in most coun-
tries. Therefore, argument for harmonizing product standards throughout nations to
accelerate SPP implementation now no longer makes a tremendous experience due
to the fact that default response of governments would be to stall imports of services
and products and shield domestic industries and employments. Such arguments will
make sense only if these countries are already a member of an economic trade block.
Therefore, creation of a trade block is a precondition for the success of harmonization
of standards with a view to scale up SPP implementation.
However, there is a need to dispel this notion that international trade and achieve-
ment of national development objectives through public procurement is a zero-sum
game, not in favor of the latter. Six years have already passed since adopting the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development. The GPA is yet to conclude its Work Program
on sustainability consideration in procurement and participation in SMEs. Such a
crucial multilateral global organization cannot risk being seen as standing in the way
7.1 Introduction 355
of achieving SDGs that move away from a narrow perspective on economic devel-
opment to an integrative agenda, simultaneously pursuing ecological, social, and
economic goals. International trade and foreign investment are critical economic
sectors that can support many of these goals. It would be interesting to watch
how international trade negotiations embrace SDGs, and the GPA concedes further
policy space to countries to leverage government procurement to achieve sustainable
development.
7.1.2 Procurement in the Context of Circular Economy
Circular procurement can be broadly understood as procurement that supports the
transition from a linear economy to a circular economy. Thus, it creates demands for
products that leave no harmful external impacts/waste; promotes durability, repair,
and reuse at the end of life; eliminates toxic elements; promotes the use of renewable
energy; and minimizes harmful substances. There is no universally accepted stan-
dard definition of circular procurement. Countries and organizations have adopted a
particular definition to suit their own context. EU (2017) has defined.
Circular procurement as the process by which public authorities purchase works, goods or
services that seek to contribute to closed energy and material loops within supply chains,
whilst minimizing, and in the best case avoiding, negative environmental impacts and waste
creation across their whole life-cycle.
Thus, it can be seen that circular procurement enables contracting authorities
to consider maximizing a product’s life span through repair and reuse, including
how to reuse or recycle products once they reach their end-of-life stage so that
businesses do not always need virgin resources to meet their consumption needs. The
definition adopted by theNetherlands emphasizes on recovering valuablematerials at
the end-of-life stage and increasing the product’s life by employing various methods.
This perspective has far-reaching impacts. Indeed, traditional public procurement
processes with a transactional approach cannot achieve circular economy objectives.
Therefore, moving to circular procurement will necessitate a change in how the
procurement process is managed, making contract management a critical stage in the
procurement cycle for achieving circularity goals. Moreover, it requires flexibility
in designing tender conditions so that a vendor offering the best circular solutions
gets the contract. In a nutshell, circular procurement could be considered a mindset
rather than a concrete well-defined discipline, thus leaving much scope for creativity,
innovations, and experiments across a broad spectrum of supply chains.
Some authors have argued that sustainable procurement is a tool or a strategy
for a linear economy where one is trying to embed sustainable practices for better
outcomes. If we take this to be true, then in contrast, circular procurement is about
approaching the production-consumption cycle with a multi-dimensional mindset
aimed at making system change, buying and using things differently, and enhancing
product life. Therefore, it is more like a system approach and in line with the circular
356 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
economy concept. The traditional focus of sustainable procurement has been buying
sustainable products and using them in a sustainable manner to reduce life cycle
impacts. In circular procurement, it is not just these aspects, but it also involves
going back to the design stage; procurement based on performance specification
does the same in sustainable procurement. While pursuing sustainable procure-
ment for advancing environmental benefits, contracting authority sometimes has to
trade-off between environmental benefits and socio-economic benefits. However, in
circular procurement approach, contracting authorities can deliver all three objectives
simultaneously.
Despite some differences in details between the two, EU (2017) views circular
procurement as an approach for greening procurement that emphasizes leveraging
procurement power to accelerate transition from a linear economy to a circular
economy. On the other hand, UNEP (2018) considers the concept of circular procure-
ment as being a part of and contributing to the broader notion of sustainable procure-
ment. Among different approaches for integrating circularity in public procurement,
none of them are unique to the extent that theywere not a part of the narrative to adopt
a sustainable procurement policy. Therefore, it is challenging to separate sustainable
and circular procurement from each other, and in fact, they complement each other.
Contracting authorities can follow different approaches to transition to the circular
economy depending on how one drafts specifications and requirements in RFPs and
RFIs at the tender inviting phase.2 Apart from technical aspects of the products, the
“use”phaseof products plays a crucial role in determininghowcircular a procurement
process is. Therefore, successful circular procurement requires a strong collaboration
between purchasers and suppliers to achieve circularity in the design and manufac-
turing of products (going back to the design stage). In addition, it also requires
collaboration with key stakeholders within the organization to ensure longevity of
products by reuse, refurbishing, and remanufacturing. Alhola et al. (2018), based
on circular procurement experiences in the EU, suggested four approaches for inte-
grating circularity in the procurement process depending on the national context and
maturity of the market for innovation. They are:
a. procurement of product or services as per circular criteria in tender specification;
b. moving from procurement of product to procurement of services;
c. procurement of new and innovative solutions aimed at achieving a circular
economy; and
d. procurement promoting industrial symbiosis and circular ecosystem.
In fact, shifting from procurement of products to services is one of the most
popular approaches for encouraging circularity and has a very high impact. It starts
with a rethink of our need—do we want to purchase a product, or do we want to
buy the function or outcome that the product provides? How could the contracting
authority ensure that the right incentive is in place for vendors to deliver the most
resource-efficient solution? These questions lead contracting authorities to think of
performance-based procurement and procurement of services instead of a product.
2 Request for Proposal and Request for Information.
7.1 Introduction 357
Material, 
cost, volume
Life cycle cost 
(material, repair, 
spare parts, waste, 
durability) 
Buyer BuyerSupplier Service Provider
Wants to 
increase 
Wants to 
decrease 
Wants to 
decrease 
Wants to 
decrease 
Buying Products Buying Services
Linear Economy                                     Circular Economy
Fig. 7.1 Product-service system
Exercising choices at the design stage of a product has an enormous impact on
whether the product at the end of its life is suitable for repair, refurbishment, or
reuse. Therefore, using functional product specifications in a tender by contracting
authority provides an excellent opportunity for vendors to innovate and design a
product that respects circularity principles.
Importantly, in this approach, ownership of products rests with vendors, thus
incentivizing vendors to satisfy customers with fewer units, supply the most resource
efficient solutions, and take back materials used in the cycle, thereby reducing envi-
ronmental impact of production. Contrast this with regular traditional procurement
options. As shown in Fig. 7.1, in case of a product purchase, while a vendor wants to
sell a higher unit of product to the purchaser, the contracting authorities want to buy a
fewer unit of products from the vendor to meet their requirement. Thus, the business
interest of purchaser and vendor is diametrically opposite. When one moves from
purchasing a product to purchasing a service, the business interest of both purchaser
and vendor gets aligned, and a better sustainability outcome is achieved. Since the
vendor is paid based on per unit of service provided to the contracting authority,
the vendor has a potential economic interest in reducing the amount of resources
consumed (UNEP 2000). Having greater control over a product that manufacturer
produces also means that they keep ownership of the embodied energy and materials
at the end of life, thus enabling design for dis-assembly, availability of spare parts,
easy maintenance, reconditioning, reuse, and recovery. Besides, it will also motivate
producers to extend product life through higher reliability, maintenance, repair, and
upgrading.
Buyers’ shift from “ownership” to “access to” service is at the core of the circular
economy, and it has been around for quite some time. However, this approach rose in
prominence only when the concept of the circular economy started getting traction
in business and government. One of the widely talked about cases of this approach
358 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
has been procurement of “Lighting as a Service” by Schiphol Airport, Netherlands,
for its 9,000 square meter terminal building from Philipps in 2016 to promote a
circular economy. Schiphol pays only for the light it uses in this contract, but Philips
owns the terminal’s 3,700 lighting fixtures and installations (Philips 2016). Today,
this approach has become very popular, and many services such as “photocopying
as a service,” “printing as a service,” “office space as a service,” etc., have become
mainstream in many parts of the world. Encouraging rental and leasing solutions
via product-service systems has a solid potential to decouple consumption from
economic growth. They offer the possibility of meeting needs with fewer resources
and lesser energy requirements.
Contracting authorities also benefit because they need to pay only for uses and
thus are able to better control the outflow of expenditure. Further, they do not have
to deal with assets that depreciate with time and become waste at the end of life. The
responsibility for waste management rests with producers, thus taking the benefits of
extended producer’s responsibility. Since the product in this approach is taken back
by the OEM, they have the opportunity to reuse, refurbish, remanufacture, and thus
recover the remaining economic value in the product and at the same time extend
the life of the product. This approach thus offers a win–win for both purchasers and
vendors while encouraging closed-loop production and consumption cycles.
While embedding circularity principles in purchasing decisions, it must be appre-
ciated that various markets have different maturity levels and the best model suited
to create circular demand and solutions depends on prevailing conditions and
options available to market players and supply chain partners (SPP Regions 2017).
Depending on the context, market maturity, and products, one may use different
approaches to decouple resource use and environmental degradation while simulta-
neously improvinghumanwell-being.The system-level changes for closing themate-
rial loop would require a very high degree of collaboration between the contracting
authority and vendors, resulting in complex contract management.
Though in the realm of public procurement, circular procurement is still in its
infancy in most parts of the world, the circular economy as a concept has taken
hold, and everyone is excited about it. Many countries worldwide are trying to inter-
nalize the circular economy concept in policymaking, with some already advancing
the circular economy in the context of the full spectrum of benefits it can provide.
However, it requires creative thinking by both suppliers and purchasers—by suppliers
regarding how to innovate and create value; and by purchasers regarding how to
reward innovation and value offered by competing bids. If handled in a collaborative
process, it can shift the market by triggering a strong innovation cycle at the vendor’s
end to respond to the new market demands. These developments allow us to look at
broader opportunities within production and consumption to further environmental,
social, and economic benefits. In the coming decades, it would be interesting to
watch how different organizations adopt circular procurement to enable the circular
business model to flourish in the market for the benefit of all.
7.1 Introduction 359
7.1.3 Sustainable Procurement and Industry 4.0
We have come a long way since 1649 when Blaise Pascal invented the Pascaline,
a prevalent mechanical computer capable of adding, subtracting, multiplying, and
dividing two numbers. Today, it is difficult to visualize anything or any sector that
has not been impacted by information technology. The current COVID-19 pandemic
has prioritized and accelerated digital shift in all sectors. More and more businesses
and governments are exploring ways to organize their core processes by leveraging
emerging technologies. According to the World Bank (2021), new emerging digital
technologies have a significant potential to strengthen the strategic function of public
procurement within governments and society at large.
Earlier, many governments shifted to an e-tendering/e-procurement platform to
create process efficiency, enhance transparency and control, and reduce purchasing
price through better competition. What distinguishes the current digitization trend
from earlier one is the arrival of a range of digital changes in industrial sectors such
as Internet of Things (IoT), Artificial Intelligence (AI), and Robotics, often known as
Industry 4.0. As the Fourth Industrial Revolution (Industry 4.0) gathers steam, digital
innovations are becoming faster, efficient, and accessible to all. It is a no-brainer
then that bringing this digital prowess in the realm of sustainable procurement and
supply chain must be at the forefront of strategic thinking to minimize impacts of
purchasing decisions on environment and society. As per the report published by
PwC, the most straightforward application of these technologies could be—bringing
transparency in supply chains and sustainable sourcing of rawmaterials (PwC 2018).
These technologieswill informprocurerswhat is being procured,where the product is
being manufactured, who is involved in the production process, how it is transported,
and how it is stored.
Table 7.1 summarizes the potential use of different technologies in public procure-
ment. It is often a combination of these technologies, such as Blockchain with IoT
that yields positive results and economic savings. Using the ability of IoT devices to
generate, capture, and transmit data from connected devices offers the opportunity to
improve sustainability. The ability of getting data from IoT devices means that it is
possible to use this information for tracing the origin of products. Various organiza-
tions such as Capgemini (Robey 2020), Enevo (Enevo 2020), Plastic Bank,3 Phillips
(Philips 2016), etc., are already embracing digital technologies to drive additional
values from existing supply chain setups.
7.1.3.1 Use of Blockchain in Improving Sustainability
Among various technological developments in recent times, blockchain technology
has profound implications for supply chain sustainability. As per IBM, blockchain
is a shared, immutable ledger that facilitates the process of recording transac-
tions and tracking assets in a business network. The key elements of a blockchain
3 Platicbank, Vancouver (Canada): https://plasticbank.com/haiti/, Accessed 26 Nov 2020.
https://plasticbank.com/haiti/
360 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
Table 7.1 Potential uses of digital technologies in public procurement source: based on (EC 2020)
SN Technology Potential uses in public procurement
1. Blockchain • A trusted, secure, and transparent data backbone
• Ensuring transparency and reducing the scope for
corruption
• Automation through smart contracts
2. Big data and data analytics • Support to decision-making—analysis and evaluation
• Analysis of corruption
• Transparency through data visualization
3. Artificial intelligence • Analysis and evaluation—procurement data, government
spending, and stakeholder sentiments
• Categorization of government spending
• Contract preparation and management
• Automation of procurement process
4. Robotics process automation • Gathering and verifying information about suppliers
• Invoice generation and payment
5. Internet of Things • Assess tracking
• Forecasting, inventory, and automated ordering
6. 3D printing • Production of prototype
• Production of supplies
7. Robots and drones • Delivery of materials and supplies
• Monitoring of project progress
are—Distributed Ledger Technology, Immutable Records, and Smart Contracts. All
network participants have access to the same distributed ledger and its immutable
record of transactions. Thus, no participant can change or tamper with the transaction
once a transaction has been recorded to the shared ledger. Furthermore, all transac-
tions are governed by a set of rules—called a smart contract mutually agreed to by
network members, stored on that blockchain, and executed automatically without
human intervention.
Each block represents a packet of transaction records (who, what, when, where,
howmuch, and condition such as product temperature) related to any assets—tangible
or intangible as it moves from one place to another or from one supply chain partic-
ipant to another. Each transaction creates a new permanent block of information
that can only be read but not altered. Further, each block is sent to all supply chain
participants to verify, and only after verification it is added to the chain. These blocks
are connected in chronological order and prevent any new block from being inserted
between two existing blocks. Finally, these transactions are recorded in a digital
ledger over a network of computers in a decentralized manner, thus removing any
possibility of tampering by any participant and building a ledger of transactions that
the network participants can trust.
The use of blockchain in the supply chain comes with many benefits. In the past,
many businesses were unable to push their sustainability goals into practices because
they had no visibility of their supply chain beyond tier 1 vendors. With blockchain,
7.1 Introduction 361
the moment a transfer of goods is registered on a digital ledger, the same informa-
tion regarding quality, price, date, and transaction location is available to all parties,
thus improving visibility across the supply chain. It would eliminate the need to
seek evidence and verify data related to a vendor’s sustainability practices. One can
get an untampered record of the entire product history, which proves that products
under consideration come from ethically sound sources, thus giving assurance of
fair work practices and eliminating the need for third-party verification. Such visi-
bility will help early detection of sustainability risks such as counterfeits, unethical
sourcing practices, and deviation from standards in the supply chain; and ensure
efficient and transparent transactions. The early detection of deviation from standard
in the upstream supply chain will minimize the occurrence of a product recall, thus
minimizing GHG emission during transportation and saving other resources.
It is only a matter of time before governments and corporations will commence
applying a carbon tax on GHG emissions occurring in a supply chain. However,
to ensure that such a tax is applied correctly, the quality and traceability of GHG
emission data needs to be trustworthy. Blockchain will ensure that GHG emission
taking place in a supply chain is correctly reported and taxed. Similarly, there are
many areas where blockchain technology could be found very useful for enhancing
sustainability. Based on the various researches such as Ahlstrand (2018), Chandan,
A. et al. (2020), EC (2020), and World Bank (2021), Table 7.2 summarizes how
blockchain technology can address different aspects of sustainability in the supply
chain.
Though different experiments on the use of blockchain technology in improving
supply chain sustainability are being carried out, there is yet to emerge a cred-
ible model for its adoption by contracting authority in procurement decisions to
enhance sustainability outcomes. Furthermore, since the information available on
blockchain networks would be fully transparent, a robust governance framework
would be required to ensure a secure data exchange among various partners that
gives confidence to stakeholders in using this technology.
There is no doubt that transparency and immutable characteristics of blockchain
can empower contracting authorities to get acquainted with a product’s history and
decidewhat best suits their sustainability requirements. However, various researchers
have pointed out issues such as scalability (Croman et al. 2016) and interpretability of
data (Saberi et al. 2018) that need to be addressed before its application in actual use
case scenarios. Besides, there is a regulatory challenge as governments worldwide
are yet to come up with laws governing the use of blockchain technology (Chandan
et al. 2020). The challenge for innovators, businesses, and governments is to scale
up use of such technologies by making sustainability considerations central to their
broader development and use.
7.1.3.2 Use of Internet of Things (IoT) for Improving Sustainability
As per Oracle, the Internet of Things (IoT) describes a network of physical objects—
“things”—that are embedded with sensors, software, and other technologies to
362 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
Table 7.2 Potential use of Blockchain in improving sustainability outcome
Sustainability issues How blockchain can improve sustainability
outcome
Credential of vendor’s sustainability record By making available credible and verifiable
historical performance and sustainability data
related to vendor
Supplier development The recorded information related to knowledge
and other support given to suppliers can be used
for performance measurement of supplier
development program
Purchasing • Data related to materials and movement of
product could be used to verify sustainability
credentials of products
• Ability to track the source of products could be
used to access loss of biodiversity and resource
depletion
Transportation Data related to mode of transportation, number of
transhipments, etc., can provide visibility about
GHG emission
Waste management Tracking the information related to where and
how waste is disposed could help minimization
of waste and safe disposal of hazardous waste
Take back of materials Information related to location, quantity, OEM,
etc., of product at the end of life could improve
the efficiency of the process for managing return
flows
Circularity of resources Information regarding purchase date of a product,
repair history, etc., can assist in determining
correct value of product
Child labor IoT along with blockchain can provide
information regarding whether child labor has
been employed in production process
Employee wages Payment made to employee is recorded onto
blockchain in an immutable way
Sourcing from local source Using blockchain technology, it is possible to
find correct information about the origin of the
product
Safety of food products Information regarding product content, expiry
date, etc., ensures that product is safe from the
health point of view
connect and exchange data with other devices and systems over the internet.4 In
the last two decades, it has emerged as the most critical technology of the twenty-
first century that can facilitate seamless communication among people, processes,
4 Oracle, Redwood City (USA): https://www.oracle.com/internet-of-things/what-is-iot/, Accessed
3 March 2021.
https://www.oracle.com/internet-of-things/what-is-iot/
7.1 Introduction 363
and things by connecting everyday objects with the internet. The primary purpose
of IoT is to collect data from the real world and translate that data into informa-
tion, thus facilitating decisions by the users/systems. By combining IoT devices for
collecting and communicating captured information with blockchain certifying its
authenticity, one can assure the viability of supplies along the entire supply chain. For
example, in a pharmaceutical supply chain, it is possible to knowwhether a particular
vaccine was stored at optimum temperature at various stages during transportation
from manufacturing to hospital and identify potential fraud and manipulation during
transit. The health worker administering the vaccine to the patient has a full view
of the product, i.e., provenance, transformation process, transportation, etc., on the
blockchain network pertaining to that particular batch of vaccines.
In 2019, the European Commission commissioned a study on the uptake of
emerging technology in public procurement. EC (2020) took inventories of how
emerging technologies such as AI, Big Data, Data Analytics, Blockchain, Robotics
Process Automation, Augmented and Virtual Reality, IoT, and Drones are applied to
public procurement byorganizationsworldwide. It found that out of the 96 such initia-
tives in digital technologies, none was exclusively aimed at improving sustainability
in public procurement decisions. Earlier in 2018, a finding by Deloitte was quite
revealing about the use of these technologies in the supply chain despite many poten-
tial benefits. Deloitte (2018) highlights that currently, only a few industry leaders and
front runners are adopting these technologies to improve procurement decisions’ effi-
ciency and effectiveness. However, in today’s fast changing world, this number is
increasing day by day. It is up to the governments and organizations to come up with
appropriate rules and regulations around these technologies so that stakeholders in
their jurisdictions gain confidence about using themoptimallywithout fear of running
afoul of local laws.
7.1.3.3 Sustainability Concerns in Using Technologies
While the increased use of digital technology in procurement can significantly
enhance sustainability benefits, ironically their use is also a matter of concern from
other sustainability points of view. For example, IoT devices generate a massive
amount of data, require a way bigger size of a data center, and as a consequence
require more energy. PwC, in its report 2018, highlighted a similar concern on
energy usage and resulting GHG emission as a result of cryptocurrency, Bitcoin. It
stated that servers’ global energy consumption for running software for blockchain-
powered Bitcoin is almost that of Ireland. Similarly, there is also concern regarding
waste generated as a result of 3D printing. In our rush to adopt new technologies
for addressing sustainability concerns, the resulting sustainability issues cannot be
wished away. We thus need to look at net sustainability gain while adopting a new
technology. In the same vein, before passing any judgment on using these technolo-
gies for improving the sustainability outcome of a procurement decision, the net
gain must be considered. While the use of blockchain with IoT offers an excellent
opportunity to scale up SPP implementation by empowering contracting authorities
364 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
to verify sustainability claims of vendors, it is still early days for adopting these
technologies in the supply chain. Only when tangible examples of overall success
become evident, will the use of these technologies start mainstreaming.
Another genuine concern regarding the use of these technologies is in relation to
SMEs. There is no doubt that, at least in the short run, mainstreaming sustainability
concerns in purchasing decisions disproportionately affects SMEs’ ability to win
contracts for sustainable products, works, and services, and their profitability. For
blockchain and IoT to become fully functional and start giving potential sustainability
benefits, all stakeholders in the supply chain need to embrace these tech. This might
require extra cost and knowledge for digitization of the process at the vendor’s end,
which adds to SMEs’ burdens. For example, to audit whether a particular SME has
been paying minimum wages to its workers, monthly salary data of workers need to
be digitized and linked to a blockchain platform. There could also be concerns about
the interpretability of data and standardization of different blockchain platforms.
Similarly, vendors would be required to install IoT devices at different loca-
tions and at different stages of production to capture and transmit data to stake-
holders in the blockchain network. Added to this is the cost of application develop-
ment. The cost of IoT application development will vary depending on development
complexity, number of features, etc. According to Shrivastava (2021), developing a
simple IoT application costs around $30,000 to $40,000. Therefore, one would need
to put in frameworks for sharing the cost between contracting authority and vendors.
Putting these together might act as an additional barrier for SMEs’ participation in
government tenders.
Integration of blockchain and other technologies will have impacts on procuring
authorities too. Implementation of SPP policy puts an extra layer of complexity in
public procurement decisions, requiring procurement officials to train on sustain-
ability issues. It also creates a role for sustainability professionals, hitherto having
no role in procurement decisions, at various purchasing decisions, thus making
procurement officials dependent on advice from sustainability professionals. While
this is good for overall sustainability outcomes; nevertheless, it results in delayed
decision-making. With the advent of new tech, the worry is—will the integration of
blockchain technology, IoT, AI, etc., in purchasing decisions add another layer of
complexity, requiring additional training and further diffusing procurement respon-
sibility? While there is no doubt about the transformational nature of these tech-
nologies in bringing sustainability benefits, their deployment requires a far more
nuanced sustainability strategy that considers the impacts of their deployment not
only on different stakeholders but also their economic, social, and environmental
impacts.
Recent decades have seen the emergence of new technologies clubbed together as
Industry 4.0, and more recently Industry 5.0, with profound impacts on all sectors.
This includes significant impacts on sustainability outcomes of purchasing decisions
too, some of which has already been discussed. Current sustainable procurement
policies will change in keeping with the times. As laws related to data protection,
AI, blockchain, etc., get formulated, they will directly influence public procurement
7.1 Introduction 365
legislations (WorldBank 2021).As explained earlier, the use of blockchain in sustain-
able procurement practices has immense potential in terms of reducing environ-
mental impacts and incentivizing vendors to undertake environmentally sustainable
action. However, to realize the opportunities that blockchain and other technologies
can create, governments will need to invest in innovation and digital infrastructure,
develop/reform laws, and build robust data protection and maintenance regimes.
7.1.4 Recent Trends in the Use of Public Procurement
for Achieving Sustainability Objectives
Public procurement is, a bit belatedly, emerging as the new darling of policymakers
and multilateral organizations. They are increasingly becoming imaginative, inno-
vative, and ambitious in using public procurement for achieving diverse objec-
tives focusing in specific sectors. As a result, the number of initiatives focused
on using public procurement to mitigate a particular risk in specific sectors such
as health, tourism, textile is growing. For example, the One Planet Network SPP
Program has identified constructions, health, and IT as priority areas for actions in its
strategic program for 2019–22 (UNEP 2019b). Similarly, several initiatives on using
public procurement to address particular areas of environmental and social concerns
such as circularity, climate mitigations, human rights, modern slavery, etc.‚ have
been growing. Though it is impossible to catalog all initiatives, a few need to be
highlighted.
7.1.4.1 Public Procurement for Home-Grown School Feeding
Programme
Many governments worldwide have school feeding programs to improve enroll-
ment in schools and provide access to nutritious and safe food to growing children.
According to FAO & WFP (2018), three hundred and sixty-eight million children
in the world are getting benefitted daily through school feeding programs in their
country. As a next step, FAO has started promoting Home-Grown School Feeding
Programme (HGSFP) in Africa, intending to increase the market participation of
smallholder farmers besides the conventional objective to increase school children’s
access to fresh and diversified food (FAO&WFP 2018). The program has additional
objectives such as moving people out of poverty (SDG 1) and hunger (SDG 2),
contributing to the empowerment of women (SDG 5), increased income to local
communities (SDG 8), and reduction in inequalities (SDG 10), thus, achieving
multiple SDGs.
The concept of HGSFP was launched by the New Partnership for the African
Union in 2003 (FAO & WFP 2018). Public procurement intervention is central to
this program. It is used to purchase food from local farmers or their associations to
366 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
supply schools with the necessary inputs for school meals. Unfortunately, typical
requirements of public procurement regulations and processes hinder the partici-
pation of smallholder farmers. Recognizing the possibility of procuring food from
smallholder farmers is often not accompanied by recognizing the need to align public
procurement rules and practices and create mechanisms to address barriers to the
entry of smallholder farmers in this commendable initiative. Therefore, the critical
challenge of SPP for HGSFP is how to make procurement rules and practices that
enhance the participation of smallholder farmers and their associations.
Under this program, many countries in Africa have taken administrative, legal,
regulatory, capacity building, and supply-side measures to facilitate smallholder
farmers’ access to HGSFP through procurement. Some of the important ones are
given below:
• optimizing size of contract to the amounts that smallholders or their organizations
are capable of supplying;
• increasing tender opening time so that farmers or their organizations can respond
to tender opportunities;
• giving a price preference to smallholders or their organizations for procurement
under the HGSFP;
• obliging contracting authorities tomake payment to smallholders or organizations
linked to them within certain days of supply;
• providing support to smallholders or their organizations in preparing tender
documents and proposal.
Onemaypoint out that there could be a trade-off between preferential procurement
schemes with the principle of fair competition. However, countries have managed
this trade-off within the legal regime by establishing safeguards that have led to a
win–win outcome.
The program has many benefits. It connects smallholder farmers to markets in
the nearby locality, thus increasing both supply and demand. The program provides
local farmers with a ready market for their produce, leading to a stable income and
higher productivity. Children get benefitted from eating fresher, healthy, nutritious,
and diversified foods. It can spur significant economic development outcomes when
integrated with other school-based health and nutrition, environment, and water and
sanitation interventions.5
The program can contribute significantly to SDG2 (ending hunger, achieving
food security and improved nutrition, promoting sustainable agriculture) and SDG4
(quality education). HGSFP is a relatively new concept, but it is increasingly
becoming popular with national governments and donor agencies. In Brazil, the
National School Feeding Programme is catering to approx. 41 million children, with
important positive impacts on their nutrition and a significant impact in terms of
rural development and improved small-scale farmers’ incomes (Schneider, S. et al.,
2016). TheWorld FoodProgramme (WFP), Food&AgricultureOrganization (FAO),
5 WFP, Rome (Italy), HGSFP Fact Sheet: https://documents.wfp.org/stellent/groups/public/docume
nts/newsroom/wfp260972.pdf Accessed 03 July 2021.
https://documents.wfp.org/stellent/groups/public/documents/newsroom/wfp260972.pdf
7.1 Introduction 367
and others have joined hands to create a Resource Framework to design and imple-
ment a government-led Home-Grown School Feeding program. Till now, WFP has
supported 46 countries in developing their Home-Grown School Feeding program.6
The program has grown so much that Swensson et al. (2021) have come up with
two volumes on “Public food procurement for sustainable food systems and healthy
diets” in which more than 100 authors have contributed; it is a great resource for
understanding nuances of the Home-Grown School Feeding program.
The program is yet another successful example of howgovernments are leveraging
public procurement for achieving diverse objectives. It would thus be myopic to
relate sustainable procurement to only environmental considerations; use of public
procurement for achieving diverse social objectives had originated long before the
green procurement concept came knocking on the doors of developed countries.
7.1.4.2 Sustainable Procurement in Health Sector (SPHS)
The need for a robust and resilient health sector, as has been more than amply high-
lighted by the current pandemic, cannot be emphasized enough for a flourishing
economy and society. An effective health system is essential for not only providing
care andmedication to patients suffering fromvarious diseases, but alsomaking insti-
tutional efforts to promote holistic wellness to prevent these diseases. Any expen-
diture on the healthcare system is, in fact, an investment with a high positive return
as it directly results in economic growth; it facilitates more numbers of people to
participate in economic activities. Over the years, the world has made rapid progress
in improving human health. As a result, life expectancy has improved, mortality rate
has declined, and several diseases have been eradicated. However, we have also seen
a rise in the frequency of pandemics like SARS, COVID-19, etc. There is scientific
evidence suggesting that human activities have led to a loss of biodiversity, extinction
of many species, air and water pollution, and waste generations, leading to breach of
many planetary boundaries. The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the disturbing
reality of the fragility of our global economy, the insufficiency of our social safety
net, and the interconnectedness of the health of people with the health of the planet.
Therefore, even a small action that can contribute to reversing this trend is worth
trying to prevent the world from going off track in achieving SDG3—good health
and well-being—and other interconnected SDGs.
There is a growing realization that the health sector and its supply chain signifi-
cantly impact the environment and society, both upstream and downstream. Deliv-
ering healthcare services also contributes negatively to climate change, chemical
contamination, resource depletion, biodiversity loss, air and water pollution, and
hazardous waste generation. It is estimated that healthcare systems in different
countries are responsible for approx. 5% to 10% of their national GHG emission,
amounting to about 4.4% of the world’s total GHG emission (Karliner et al. 2019).
National governments and the UN agencies together, largest buyers of healthcare
6 WFP, Rome (Italy): https://www.wfp.org/home-grown-school-feeding. Accessed 27 Feb 2021.
https://www.wfp.org/home-grown-school-feeding
368 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
products and services, can contribute significantly towards decoupling healthcare
impacts from healthcare delivery by leveraging their procurement power. The UN
organizations have already acknowledged the vital role of public procurement as an
entry point for bringing transformational changes in the healthcare supply chain. In
order to tap this opportunity and exploit their combined purchasing power of around
US$ 3.9 billion annually (UNDP 2020a), seven UN agencies and three Multilateral
Health Financing Institutions have started a new initiative called the UN Sustainable
Procurement inHealth Sector (SPHS) tomovemarkets towards sustainable consump-
tion and production. The United Nations Development Programme, the secretariat
of the UN SPHS, and Health Care Without Harm have launched the Sustainable
Health in Procurement Project (SHiPP) in ten countries to transform this objective
into actual practices in the health sector.
Since its inception, the UN SPHS has developed several initiatives for capacity
building, networking, and developing best practices guidelines in the health sector.
As a result, they have a formidable voice in sustainable procurement in health sector
in less than a decade. However, what is commendable is their attempt to develop a
Sustainable Procurement Index for Health (SPIH), a common framework for deter-
mining the desired sustainability outcome that can provide confidence to buyers
and suppliers. The initiative is unique because it has not been attempted before in
a public procurement setting. It strives to establish a globally recognized Index to
measure and communicate the sustainability credentials of the supply in the health
system across selected key sustainability aspects. It, thus, aims to provide a platform
for buyers to have complete visibility of suppliers’ sustainability performance while
making a purchasing decision. Further, it would thus fulfill the long-perceived void
by stakeholders on the need to have standardized sustainable procurement criteria
and measurement tools for health products.
When UN SPHS began this project, they did not have a clear idea of how the
final Index will look. Therefore, one of the vital components of the Terms of Refer-
ence (TOR) for engaging consultants in Request for Proposal (RFP) was identi-
fying key environmental and social areas relevant to sustainable health procurement,
defining the components, relative weighting, and scoring mechanism for the Index
and measuring the overall score of the Index (UNEP 2019a). Since such work was
being done for the first time, UN SPHS nominated a multi-stakeholder expert group
to provide technical decisions, review deliverables, and steer the development of the
Index.Members of this group come from diverse sectors and disciplines representing
national governments, multilateral institutions, universities, and NGOs.
The work on SHIP has progressed well, and the conceptual framework of the
SHIP—key indicators and criteria and scoring mechanism—has been finalized in
the form of a spreadsheet where inputs provided by vendors are used to determine
the outcome. While developing the Index, it has been kept in mind that suppliers
across different markets are at different levels of development in terms of their
sustainability practices. Therefore, while encouraging and rewarding excellence in
sustainability, the Index should not become a significant entry-level barrier for them.
The SHIP has identified four core areas, namely GHG emissions, resource deple-
tion, chemical/toxicity, and human and labor rights, for inclusion in the Index. It has
7.1 Introduction 369
adopted a progression-based approach, meaning suppliers must fulfill all criteria in
one level before progressing to the next. Itwill use both data provided by suppliers and
those obtained from external sources as inputs to determine the outcome. As per the
current understanding, the SHIP will inform decision-makers during the procure-
ment process—pre-qualification, contract management, or performance enhance-
ment (UNDP 2020b). The work of the project has come to an end, and SPHS is
currently in the process of disseminating information on SPIH through webinar
(SPHS 2021) and running pilots in selected countries.
The Index attempts to capture the organizational sustainability performance of
vendors at the lower level of the Index and gradually moves to capture product
sustainability performance at the higher level of the Index. Combining sustainability
criteria of two stages namely specification definition and selection criteria in a single
Index may invite legal challenges in some countries while positioning it within the
procurement requirements. For instance, EU’s procurement directives do not give
unrestricted freedom to contracting authorities to choose any technical capabilities
as exclusion criteria. Thus, the contracting authority cannot exclude a firm based on
not following sound environmental policies in managing its business unless it has
a connection with anything required in delivering the goods and services under the
contract. Similarly, the considered view on provisions of EU Directives 2014/24/EU
and 2014/25/EU has been that technical specification of a particular work, supply,
or service being purchased needs to relate to characteristics and not to the general
capacities or qualities of the economic operator (EC2016).A similar legal framework
on public procurement in other parts of the world cannot be ruled out. Therefore,
more extensive use of SPIH for procurement decisions by contracting authorities at
the national level might face some roadblocks in future in some countries. It would
be interesting to watch the pilot phase of actual application of SPIH in the SHiPP
countries and how it later spreads out to other parts of the world in terms of health
procurement. Based on their success, other sectors may develop their own Index for
procurement in the future.
The proposed SPIH represents an effort towards creating a new tool for measuring
the sustainability performance of vendors and using such an Index for procurement
decisions in a transparent way. However, the potential costs of implementing it across
the globe is not yet immediately clear. Currently, vendors’ inputs must be validated
by buyers or by a third party to ensure transparency and objectivity of the tender
procedure. If it is to be verified by purchasers, then it puts extra pressure on them
(as they are not very conversant with sustainability aspects) and thus limiting their
enthusiasm to wholeheartedly adopt this Index for their procurement needs. This
could also result in delays in the procurement process. If, on the other hand, it is to
be verified by a third party, it would increase the cost and would require a working
mechanism to share this cost between procurers and UN SPHS.
Further, vendors are likely to incur some cost on SPIH compliance, thus putting
small vendors at a disadvantage compared to the bigger ones. It is to be seen if national
governments or UNDP would be willing to develop some financial intervention
around this issue.
370 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
In conclusion, while the benefits of such an Index are tremendous in moving
the market towards sustainable consumption and production, certain aspects, such
as those mentioned above, need to be further discussed and planned before a final
rollout. Nonetheless, the Index looks quite promising in the sense that for the first
time, UN SPHS is attempting to standardize the criteria for selection of vendors for
procurement of goods and services in health sectors globally, and this is sure to throw
up many promising outcomes.
7.1.4.3 Responsible Antibiotics Manufacturing Platform
Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) is comparatively a new phenomenon, but it is
increasingly spreading worldwide. It is estimated that the global death toll attributed
to AMR may reach 10 million per annum by 2050 (de Kraker 2016), exerting a drag
on the global GDP of 1.1 to 3.8% points between now and 2050 (World Bank 2017).
The former UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, has described AMR as a funda-
mental threat to global health and stated that failure to address this issue would put
the sustainable development goals in jeopardy (UN 2016). While awareness on the
issue has been gathering pace as its impacts on global health are becoming increas-
ingly evident, decisive action to address those impacts has not been effective due
to the complexity of the issues involved. The issue is truly global as while most
antibiotics manufacturing takes place in China and India, where strict implementa-
tion of regulations may not be up to the desired level, their consumption happens all
across the world. Therefore, SIWI (2020) has argued that reducing emissions from
antibiotics manufacturing is a shared responsibility between stakeholders on supply
and demand-side.
While there could be diverse approaches, with their advantages and disadvan-
tages, of addressing this global menace, a practical and straightforward approach
for keeping antimicrobial compounds out of the environment would be to prevent
them from being present in the industrial discharge above a certain permissible level.
To minimize the discharge of antibiotics into the environment from manufacturing
plants and to gain broader sustainability objectives, a multi-stakeholder global initia-
tive called Responsible Antibiotics Manufacturing Platform (RAMP) was launched
in 2020. It works through a growing network of global pioneers in responsible antibi-
otics, procurement, and manufacturing, including leading procurers from Europe,
UN agencies, and relevant networks in low- and middle-income countries. The core
idea of RAMP is to leverage “power of procurement” to provide the right incentives
to manufacturers for preventing AMR-triggering emissions of antibiotics from their
manufacturing units.
In this case, the progress would depend on knowledge and tools with the procurers
to address the specifics of antibiotics manufacturing, the presence/absence of regula-
tory limits on the discharge of antibiotics, and the level of empowerment of procurers
to address these regulatory measures. There is no easy solution as cost impact
of compliance with sustainability criteria on procurement expenditure needs to be
understood in diverse settings of different nations. The reality is that cost implications
7.1 Introduction 371
play a crucial role in access to medicine in the low- and middle-income countries in
the Global South. Therefore, it is important that selection criteria be set in a phased
manner so that the global supply of antibiotics is not affected and the ultimate goal
of zero-emission discharge is met without supply and cost disruptions.
Some contracting authorities in developed countries have already started conver-
sations on developing environmental criteria for the procurement of antibiotics to
reduce emissions and pollution. For example, the Norwegian Hospital Procurement
Trust (Sykehusinnkjøp HF), a nodal agency for procurement of pharmaceuticals in
Norway, has decided to give 30%weightage for environmentally friendly production
in award criteria procurement of antibiotics (Sykehusinnkjøp (2021).
TheUKhas identified developing a newprocurementmethodology for purchasing
antibiotics in their Five-Year National Action Plan on AMR to ensure that manu-
facturers continue investing in sound environmental practices (UK Govt 2019).
However, these are early days yet for tackling AMR by leveraging public procure-
ment. What is commendable is that policymakers are increasingly relying on public
procurement to address such global health issues through a globalized supply chain.
7.1.4.4 Sustainable Procurement in Tourism Industry
Tourism has been an important sector of the economy, providing employment and
livelihood to millions worldwide. According to UNEP (2019c), it already constitutes
approx. 10% of national GDP globally and accounts for one out of 10 jobs. With
an increase in global income, the number of international tourist arrivals is expected
to reach 1.8 billion by 2030 (UNWTO 2020). In many smaller island developing
nations, tourism accounts for approx. 25%–60% of national GDP, representing a
dominant sector of the economy. Compare that to the global GHG emissions from
the tourism sector which amounts to 8% of total GHG emissions and is likely to
double by 2050. Similarly, current consumptions of energy and water are also likely
to double by the year 2050. The tourism sector contributes to a significant amount
of plastic waste which negatively impacts communities living in tourist destinations.
According to Alessi & Di Carlo (2018), more than 200 million tourists visit the
Mediterranean every summer, leading to an almost 40% spike annually in plastics
entering the sea. A similar contribution from other tourist destinations cannot be
ruled out. If not arrested immediately, these impacts will destroy the natural habitat
of such destinations and prove disastrous for the sector’s survival in a sustainable
manner.
In recent times, voices have been growing to transform the tourism value chain to
low carbon and resource-efficient operations through sustainable consumption and
production practices. Sustainable procurement has been identified as a critical lever
for better management of resources and promoting resource efficiency throughout
the tourism value chain. UNEP, in its report “Transforming Tourism through Sustain-
able Procurement,” has deliberated the role of sustainable procurement as a driver
for innovation in response to environmental and socio-economic challenges in the
372 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
tourism sector (UNEP 2019d). The report has specifically highlighted how sustain-
able procurement could improve circularity in the tourism sector, sustainable prac-
tices in food procurement, energy efficiency of electrical appliances, and reduction
in purchase of single-use plastic items.
The tourism industry has its own sets of specific challenges that need to be consid-
ered while attempting solutions through procurement. For example, the need to
reduce plastic waste through single-use bottled drinking water versus health and
safety concerns arises from water-borne diseases. Such unique situations need a
detailed understanding of the end use of a product and local regulations, before
assessing the suitability of alternative greener options in line with the destination.
For achieving this objective, it would be crucial for relevant stakeholders along the
tourism value chain to work together, which brings us to the good news: stakeholders
in the tourism value chain are already taking measures to reduce the impacts of their
operations on the environment and society through procurement. Hotels have begun
buying unbleached bed linen with stunning results in terms of reduction in GHG
emission (by 32%), reduction in energy consumption (by 42%), and reduction in
water consumption (by 28%) during the life cycle of such bed linen (UNEP 2019d).
However, such procurement measures alone will not achieve transformative results
without behavioral change and traveller’s buy-in. Any business or tourist traveler
would be familiar with that poster in our hotel rooms related to reusing our bed
linen and towels to save water and energy. How many of us actually use the option?
There is a positive trend though and an increasing number of travelers are opting for
sustainable options during their hotel stay. But more needs to be done to empower
travelers with the knowledge and rationale behind such a move and their role as a
change agent. This again proves the importance of engaging with stakeholders.
Private ownership dominates the tourism sector worldwide. Therefore, procure-
ment professionals in this sector are not constrained by government rules and regu-
lations for effecting innovative changes and making a difference to the environment
and society through their processes. UNEP (2019d) has documented several case
studies on how the tourism industry is transforming its operations through procure-
ment and reaping sustainability benefits.However, such successful practices are yet to
become a norm across the industry. Going forward, the role of platform like Sustain-
able Tourism 20307 and the United Nations World Tourism Organisation would
be crucial in mainstreaming sustainability in purchasing decisions and making the
tourism industry a shining example of protecting natural heritage and preserving
them for future generations.
7.1.4.5 Low Carbon Procurement
The Glasgow Climate Pact adopted at the November 2021 COP26 states that by
2030, the global CO2 emission must decline by 45% from 2010 levels for limiting
7 GreenStep Solutions Inc (2021) Take the Sustainable Tourism 2030 Pledge. Kelowna (Canada):
https://www.sustainabletourism2030.com/pledge/ Accessed 09 Jul 2021.
https://www.sustainabletourism2030.com/pledge/
7.1 Introduction 373
temperature rise to 1.5 °C from pre-industrial level. The Pact, among other things,
calls upon member countries to accelerate development, deployment, and dissemi-
nation of technologies and adopt policies to transition towards a low emission energy
system (UNFCCC 2021). In many ways, efforts to reduce GHG emission in the post-
Paris Climate Change Agreement has dominated public debates and shaped public
policy, including procurement policy. The scale and reach of public procurement
and its ability to cut across SDGs have attracted governments worldwide to use it
as one of the effective mechanisms to reduce GHG emission, support innovation,
and the industry’s transition to low carbon manufacturing (Correia et al., 2013). The
“Europe 2020” strategy for sustainable growth, adopted in 2010, highlighted the role
of demand-side policy such as green procurement to support Europe’s shift towards
a low carbon economy (EC 2010).
Using procurement to reduce Scopes 1 and 2 emissions by purchasing energy-
efficient alternatives or electricity directly from renewable sources is the most
common strategy. However, the ability to reduce Scope 3 emissions—in economic
terms, a classic “externality”—makes procurement the most sought-after instrument
for managing carbon reduction in any organization or country. Scope 3 emissions,
in the supply chain of a product’s life cycle, can constitute up to 75% of the organi-
zation’s footprints. It is interesting to note that attempts to reduce carbon emission
through procurement originally started at an individual level. Thankfully, over time,
it has developed into a dedicated discipline backed by acts and rules in many parts
of the world. The process whereby an organization seeks to procure goods, works,
and services with reduced carbon footprints throughout their life cycle is called
low carbon procurement. It essentially means demanding products with a reduced
carbon content of materials vs. conventionally manufactured products. Life Cycle
assessment (LCA), as defined in ISO 14040, is typically used to calculate embodied
carbon in materials. In the construction sector, Product Category Rules (PCR) are
also prevalent for standardized carbon footprint calculation. For other sectors, there
is no standard methodology, and contracting authority will have to rely on LCA to
calculate the carbon footprints of offered products.
Most countries start their GPP/SPP program by purchasing energy-efficient prod-
ucts with the twin aims of reducing energy consumption and GHG emissions.
They further extend it to acquiring energy-efficient buildings and other construc-
tion projects. However, the challenge they face in internalizing carbon emissions
in purchasing decisions is putting a price on carbon emissions. Therefore, carbon
pricing can provide an effective, efficient, and equitable tool to guide contracting
authorities in procurement decisions. This essentially means determining the GHG
emission over the life cycle of products/projects, multiplying these by a shadow
carbon price, and then factoring these costs while evaluating bids to steer purchasing
decisions. De Graaff et al. (2020) have suggested using carbon pricing in procure-
ment in two ways—(i) for information purposes; and (ii) for ranking bids. In the
first method, carbon pricing could be used to understand the carbon footprints of
different products during the procurement planning stage so that one may decide to
procure the product with the least carbon footprints without distinguishing between
suppliers. The second method is used to rank various bids by measuring the specific
374 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
carbon footprint of the solutions offered by the vendor in evaluation criteria to factor
into procurement decisions. As a result, bidders get additional incentives to provide
materials that have the lowest carbon footprints. The CO2 performance used in the
Netherlands for infrastructure procurement is an example of the latter. Along the
same lines, Eric Dunford et al. (2021) have suggested a minimum carbon benchmark
threshold that bidders must demonstrate, i.e., the carbon content of their products
meets or exceeds the threshold set by the contracting authority. For example, Cali-
fornia has set a benchmark carbon fuel standard that any fuel supplier must meet
to advance vehicle efficiency (Dunford et al., 2021). The inherent disadvantage of
the Dunford et al (2021) approach is that bidders are not motivated to improve upon
their solutions beyond theminimumbenchmark. Therefore, potential of procurement
in driving carbon reductions varies with general carbon management maturity and
contracting policy and practices in the country or region.
De Graaff et al. (2020) have suggested that carbon pricing works best and leads
to practical solutions with reduced climate impacts of products and services when a
relatively high carbon price is adopted. However, the use of carbon pricing has other
limitations too. For example, it does not yield satisfactory results inmany sectorswith
various products and lacks a standard footprint calculation methodology. Further,
private sectors need to be ready to innovate in response to public procurement calls
for low carbon solutions to achieve any effective solution. Therefore, going forward,
governments need to identify sectors ready for adopting carbon pricing and ones that
matter the most from a carbon reduction point of view. For example, most carbon
emissions from infrastructure construction are associated with the production of
materials (concrete, cement, and asphalt) and from the use of fossil fuels for the
transportation of materials. Therefore, a policy that prioritizes procurement of lower
carbon concrete, cement, and asphalt, and use of more sustainable transport methods
will accelerate the transition to net-zero.
Dunford et al. (2021) have argued that low carbon procurement policy can promote
the deployment of innovative products by linking policy goals for decarbonization to
the purchasing of materials. However, to make this argument works in actual prac-
tices, public authority needs to choose a tender design that includes carbon pricing
in the decision matrix for awarding a contract to deliver this goal. The tender design
should be such that it can compare different bids transparently and should not
inadvertently limit some vendors’ participation.
Though goals and targets for GHG emissions are new to many countries, many
others have established advanced procurement strategies through continuous interac-
tions with stakeholders. The EU has a dedicated website, GPP 2020, to mainstream
low carbon procurement across Europe (EU 2016). The GPP 2020 aims to support
EU goals of achieving a 20% reduction in GHG emissions, a 20% increase in the
share of renewable energy, and a 20% increase in energy efficiency by 2020. The
update on the actual progress is not available but last checked, as of April 2016, more
than 40 public authorities in eight countries executed over 100 low carbon tenders,
saving an equivalent of 900,000 tons of CO2 (ICLEI 2021). The approach focused on
engaging with the procurement team from the beginning and showing the benefits of
low carbon tender to procurers and decision-makers. After the award, all contracts
7.1 Introduction 375
were monitored to calculate energy and GHG emissions reductions compared to
business-as-usual solutions. The project also led to the development of several tools
such as Energy Contracting Calculator, Office ICT Calculator, Vehicle Calculator,
and Street LightingCalculator. Similarly, the BuyCleanCaliforniaAct 2017, notably
the most prominent low carbon procurement policy in North America, mandates
contracting authorities to specify the maximum acceptable Global Warming Poten-
tial (GBP) limits to target carbon emission associated with the production of selected
construction materials like steel, glass, certain insulations (DGS 2017). Therefore,
only products with Environmental Product Declarations (EPDs) having lower GHG
emissions than the benchmark for that category can be used in government-funded
projects.
Since low carbon procurement prioritizes carbon reduction, it sometimes compro-
mises other critical environmental issues or socio-economic aspects (Correia et al.
2013). However, as pressures mount on governments to target carbon emissions
reductions due to the growing political profile of the climate change agenda, low
carbon procurement is sure to get lion attention in the future.
7.1.5 Book Summary
Any product, service, and work that an institution-government or business purchases
has footprints on people’s environment, society, economy, and health. These foot-
prints, irrespective of the place where public authorities operate, are not necessarily
limited within their geographical boundaries but may spread beyond. Procurement
connects institutional purchasers with resources available externally. Through their
procurement choice, institutional purchasers choose what world they want to live
in, given that the most sustainability challenges and resources often lie outside
their boundaries. How can these understandings be internalized into the procure-
ment process to bring meaningful, transformative changes for society? Since public
procurement has a lion’s share in the government’s expenditure, it represents a huge
economic value and can become a great driver of sustainability, helping governments
and businesses grow their value when procurement and sustainable approaches are
combined.
Public procurement regulations follow a set of principles to achieve a set of
objectives. Traditionally, these objectives included the best Value for Money (VfM),
integrity, accountability, equal opportunities, and efficiency. These objectives are
supposed to be achieved through principles of competition, equal treatment, and
transparency. The strategic use of public procurement is based on the concept that
governments, when using their financial capacity and procurement power to award
contracts, can go beyond the immediate scope of simply responding to the state’s
procurement needs; they can use this to address additional social, environmental,
and economic needs that contribute to the overall public good of a state. It does not
mean that principles are not valid. They are still valid, but the idea goes beyond the
procurement needs and addresses other social, economic, and environmental goals.
376 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
This requires a broader interpretation of what constitutes “best value” in public
procurement.
The strategic use of public procurement to address social issues was ubiquitous in
many parts of the world much before “green procurement” occupied center stage in
the discourse on sustainable consumption and production. However, those practices
were slowly mellowed down and abandoned in the post-Thatcher era in the name
of market economy and bringing efficiency; economic considerations (read apparent
cost) became the sole determinant for awarding a public contract. This over-emphasis
on price alone as the award criterion did not work well, as one can infer, for other
socio-economic values. After all, contracting authority has to balance three concerns
while exercising procurement decisions:
i. maximize citizen satisfaction by providing quality products and services;
ii. maximize growth opportunities for the private sector; and
iii. efficient spending of government money.
Awarding contracts solely on economic criteria might achieve efficiency in public
spending but fails on other parameters—quality, social, and environmental. In fact,
public procurement regulations that favored SMEs and local industries were initially
criticized as trade impediments. Fortunately, now there is growing appreciation that
positive discrimination towards SMEs and local industries in public procurement
and protection of worker’s rights are good for equity and balanced economic devel-
opment. In its new avatar, sustainable procurement not only focuses on SMEs and
local industries but also on much broader issues like health and safety of workers,
employment, minimum wages, etc., in addition to environmental issues. Interest-
ingly, the practice of using public procurement for promoting social benefits, lost
somewhere along the way, regained traction when public procurement was acknowl-
edged as an effective tool for promoting eco-innovative products and mitigating
environmental impacts. In a sense, the strategic use of public procurement has come
full circle from social issues to environmental issues to the current environmental
and social issues in its new avatar. The global experiences of implementing sustain-
able procurement show prevalence of environmental and economic dimensions in
policy objectives, while social equity value has lagged behind. Therefore, there is
an urgent need to stimulate integration of equity in purchasing decisions through a
unique approach to sustainable procurement that achieves the concurrent goals of
environmental sustainability, social equity, and economic development.
By adopting a strategic approach, governments can align limited resources to
initiatives that are most likely to generate the maximum sustainability outcome.
International agreements and conventions such as SDGs and Paris Climate Agree-
ment have further galvanized the strategic use of public procurement to achieve
sustainability objectives. While several countries have embraced it wholeheartedly
and are rapidly establishing ambitious policy objectives, many are surprisingly still
contemplating its merits to influence governance and sustainability outcomes. Some
have even raised concerns about its use in developing and poor economies contexts.
Such wide diversity in views among stakeholders towards any new concept is not
uncommon and plays a significant role in helping to fine-tune that concept. A few
7.1 Introduction 377
decades ago, when environmental and social impact assessments were made a part
of project planning, procurement, and execution, a similar uproar was witnessed
around its practicability in project procurement and implementation. Regardless of
the initial hesitation, the world has addressed the concerns of stakeholders, found
its effectiveness in bringing environmental and social impacts of project during the
planning stage, and have now embraced it fully. A similar trajectory can be expected
for sustainable procurement as well.
Implementing sustainable procurement comes with its own set of challenges:
reducing risk aversion, setting up new forms of coordination and collaboration,
improving skills and capacity, encouraging procurement officials to undertake
dialogue with suppliers, and enhancing data collection and monitoring of results.
However, experts worldwide are optimistic and confident about sustainable procure-
ment as a preferred policy choice for enhancing sustainability outcomes, notwith-
standing challenges around its implementation. Many countries, which are high on
theSPPmaturity curve today, faced similar challenges in the past andhave either over-
come them or are persisting by tweaking processes to achieve what suits them best.
There is no doubt that other countries, currently low on the SPP maturity curve, can
replicate the same success on SPP implementation. The concerns regarding sustain-
able procurement for achieving broader policy objectives are slowly getting petered
out, and stakeholders are becoming bolder in applying this principle in various sectors
of the economy and different national contexts. Unlike previous decades when the
majority of the researches and practices in the area of sustainable procurement were
coming from developed countries, new researches and practices in the area have
also started emerging from developing and poor economies. It is rapidly evolving
to address broader national policy objectives and changing how procurement func-
tion is perceived. It has emerged as an overarching policy instrument cutting across
different sectors of the economy, like tourism, building and construction, textile,
manufacturing. In less than three decades, stakeholders today are finding new appli-
cations of it every day. This reflects the growing interest in transforming public
procurement into a strategic policy lever for the government.
The biggest drivers for spreading sustainable procurement practices in different
parts of theworld have perhaps been regulation andmotivation. Since public procure-
ment is a highly regulated area of financial management, regulation on sustainable
procurement has been the key to its adoption by public authorities. In contrast, private
sectors were motivated to reduce sustainability risks, meet customer demand for
sustainable products and services, gain competitive advantages, improve brand value,
and increase cost-efficiency by optimizing resources in their procurement decisions.
While regulation sets aminimum bar for sustainable procurement practices and guar-
anteesminimumuptake, public authorities cannot exploit its full potential unless they
start thinking beyond regulations. They can make significant positive impacts on the
environment and society only by embracing the sound rationale thatmotivates private
entities to adopt sustainable procurement practices in the first place. Therefore, while
regulation on the strategic use of public procurement can give public authorities a
head start in its implementation, it is only through motivation that organizations can
378 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
make a more considerable impact in the long run. Therefore, success in SPP imple-
mentation has as much to do with the government’s value, leadership, and strategy
as regulatory provisions for purchasing sustainable products, works, and services.
The leadership and professionalization of procurement functions have played and
would continue to play an overwhelming role in shaping the extent to which an orga-
nization is motivated and empowered for integrating sustainability in purchasing
decisions. The leadership sets the ball rolling by clearly communicating intentions,
directions, and priorities for the whole organization regarding sustainable procure-
ment. However, beyond a well-intentioned sustainable procurement strategy, what
is imperative for its successful implementation is to equip individual procurers with
the necessary skills, knowledge, information, and tools to identify, prioritize, and
take meaningful actions to mitigate sustainability risks related to procurement activ-
ities. An investment made towards the professionalization of procurement gives a
better return in terms of sustainability outcome and cost-effectiveness of sustainable
procurement. Countries investing in professionalization have moved much ahead on
the sustainable procurement maturity curve than those trusting only the prioritized
product categories as their SPP strategy. This vital evidence from SPP implementa-
tion experiences in European countries is highly endorsed by experts for all countries
and organizations embarking or mid-way on the SPP journey.
While the strategic use of public procurement has greater acceptance now than
ever before, stakeholders need to be reminded that not everything has gone as per
script. Although it is a little more than two decades that sustainable procurement
started being discussed and researched, and is currently reasonably well understood,
its take-off has been slower than expected. Past experiences in implementing SPP
policy show that it takes time for any government to articulate its benefits, harmo-
nize its legal framework, work on capacity building of stakeholders, and actually
implement the policy in a real-world scenario. The ground reality is that in most
developing countries, public contracts are still perceived as a stand-alone tool to
purchase specific goods or services and not as a strategic tool to achieve broader
organizational objectives. The economic principle still rules at the cost of effective-
ness principle, thus impacting the quality of services received by people. On top of
that, advocates and champions have been found wanting in their efforts to dispel
the myths around lower cost of conventional products as compared to sustainable
products. So who bears the cost? The lower cost paid by consumers—individual or
institutional purchasers—for less sustainable options is far more than what it costs
the society in terms of externalities.
Further, the inability to demonstrate and communicate significant sustainability
gains at the desired scale has dented its image as a preferred policy choice among
policymakers and made contracting authorities hesitant in embracing it enthusias-
tically. The best way to address the cost barrier to sustainable procurement is to
communicate indirect environmental, social, and health benefits that can be shown
to provide better value to the taxpayer’s money even when direct costs—the price
paid plus the cost of use, maintenance, and disposal—are higher. Buying a product
at a lower upfront price even if the product has higher energy consumption, mainte-
nance, repair, or disposal costs is structurally inefficient, costing billions of dollars
7.1 Introduction 379
to governments. This inefficiency could be removed only by professional procure-
ment procurers, who could optimize benefits arising from opportunities underlying at
different stages of the procurement cycle. Thus, there is a need to reform procurement
policy that promotes robust systems and adaptive procurement processes to cater to
the demand of the twenty-first century. A clear guideline on how much additional
expenditure can be incurred, and under what circumstances to favor sustainable prod-
ucts over conventional products, has the power to address cost barriers to sustainable
procurement and increase chances of its adoption by practitioners.
An important reason for tardy progress on SPP in many countries, including
India, is that stakeholders have implemented it based on silo-thinking rather than
systematic thinking. As a result, different actors and ministries have been making
efforts to internalize sustainability in silos without acknowledging their intercon-
nectedness. These complex interdependencies within procurement systems must be
addressed efficiently, and not independently. In fact, systemic evaluation of sustain-
able procurement outcomes remains a challenge in most countries; feedback and
learning loops in the system are mostly non-existent. Therefore, there is a need
to appreciate the aspect of interconnectedness of the procurement system, creating
a common understanding of how the system functions and how it can be geared
towards new sustainability goals. To achieve real transformation in the procurement
system, reconciling public and organizational interests would be crucial; short-term
organizational benefits should not outweigh long-term shared societal benefits while
developing any policy.
The true potential and value of sustainable procurement can be unlocked only by
addressing issues at the system level. Applying a systematic approach to sustain-
able procurement will help set cross-cutting priorities to work across existing silos
and empower stakeholders to choose appropriate procurement strategies at the very
first instance. The requirement of market operators must be at the forefront while
developing SPP policy for swift and successful execution. Different actors need to
join their hands to reform their frameworks to advance complementary policy objec-
tives and strengthen co-benefits through public procurement. The resulting trust and
collaboration among stakeholders will help them design solutions that convert trade-
offs into synergies among all three dimensions of sustainable development. Estab-
lishing an active monitoring and evaluation system for procurement outcomes will
ensure that necessary feedback and learning loops are present in the system. It would
further ensure that actors are aware of the impacts of SPP practices on the ground
and take timely corrective measures collectively. One possible solution for bringing
systematic thinking into the procurement procedure to achieve horizontal objectives
is using multi-disciplinary teams working together throughout the entire procure-
ment process cycle. Such an approach would allow greater buy-in on the uptake of
the final decision-making, even if it is different from the earlier position held by
stakeholders.
The situation is also a clarion call for multilateral agencies to rethink, redesign,
and recalibrate their strategy for promoting SPP in different parts of the world.
The best available SPP policy framework in the world can be transposed from one
380 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
country to another, but a framework without the right tools for implementing it
(the country specificities) will lead to nowhere. There is a need to develop a non-
prescriptive guideline to support the implementation of national SPP strategies. The
current emphasis on identifying “low hanging” product categories with half-baked
prioritization study, sometimes bypassing the national standard-setting organiza-
tion ostensibly to speed up implementation, has not resulted in long-term success.
Procurement leadership and people responsible for integrating sustainability consid-
erations in purchasing decisions have primarily been found missing from the SPP
governance setup. Their non-inclusion in SPP governance setup has failed to instill
in them a sense of ownership, win support base of purchasers, and create capacity
among local institutions to steer changes needed for SPP implementation. As a result,
though some recipient countries have developed an SPP policy framework, they
cannot move beyond a few product categories. The experiences demonstrate that
such a myopic approach for mainstreaming sustainability in procurement decisions
fails to produce significant sustainability outcomes. Therefore, emphasis needs to
be on co-designing a locally fit framework with implementation methods rather
than simply transposing a framework that has worked in an industrialized country.
Investments directed towards empowering people and institutions to enable them to
take command of SPP implementation will do wonders both for donor agencies and
recipient countries.
The outcome of any SPP program is proportional to expectations concerning
sustainability, climate change, and circular economy. In India, General Financial
Rules (GFR) needs to include stipulations on the role of contracting authority to
act on opportunities related to improving environmental and social well-being and
obligating public authorities to use their public procurement spend to support SDGs,
climate change, and circular economy ambitions. The current approach for SPP
implementation lacks agility and focus and can yield only incremental results. Even
if a few more products are prioritized at the national level in the coming months
and years, it would just be a trickle in the ocean of opportunity. India needs to
show determination to embrace this opportunity and change to a higher gear for
inducing transformational outcome of SPP implementation. This wouldmean setting
up building blocks with adequate resources and a framework to channelize efforts
and execute them with realistic expectations. It is incumbent on all stakeholders
to make SPP a well-nourished strategic project with a clear pathway that seeks to
help transform India’s socio-economic profile in the long term. While there is an
urgent requirement of a national endeavor for SPP implementation, it is necessary
that the spirit and commitment be applied across the states, municipalities, and local
programs. Scaling up sustainable procurement from its current meager presence to a
mainstream economic tool will make a decisive contribution to achieving SDGs and
decoupling economic growth from resource use while ensuring India’s long-term
equitable, sustainable, and greener growth ensuring no one is left behind.
References 381
References
Ahlstrand A (2018) The potential of blockchain technology in solving green supply chain
management challenges. Dissertation, Department of Information and Service Economy, Aalto
University, Helsinki (Finland)
Alessi E, Di Carlo G (2018) Out of the plastic trap: Saving theMediterranean from plastic pollution,
World Wide Fund for Nature, Rome (Italy)
Alhola K, Ryding SO, Salmenperä H, Busch NJ (2018) Exploiting the Potential of Public
Procurement: Opportunities for Circular Economy. J Ind Ecol. https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.12770
Casier L (2019) Canada’s International Trade Obligations: Barrier or opportunity for sustainable
public procurement? International Institute of Sustainable Development Manitoba (Canada).
Chandan A, Potdar V, Rosano M (2020) How Blockchain can help in supply chain sustainability.
Paper presented at the Australasian Conference on Information Systems 2019, Perth (Australia)
Correia F, Howard HM, Hawkins B, Pye A, Lamming R (2013) Low carbon procurement: An
emerging agenda. J Purch SupplyManag 19:58–64. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pursup.2012.11.004
Croman K, Decker C, Eyal I, Gencer AE, Juels A, Kosba A, Miller A, Saxsena P, Shi E, Sirer EG,
Song D, Wattenhofer R (2016) On Scaling Decentralized Blockchains. In: Clark J, Meiklejohn
S, Ryan P, Wallach D, Brenner M, Rohloff K. (eds) Financial Cryptography and Data Security.
FC 2016. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol 9604. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg. https://
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53357-4_8
De Graaff L, Bachaus A, De Bruyn S, Korteland M, Odegard I (2020) Carbon pricing in provincial
procurement and tender procedures, focusing on catering, office furniture, and textiles, CE Delft,
Deft (the Netherlands).
De Kraker MEA, Stewardson AJ, Harbarth S (2016) Will 10 Million People Die a Year due to
Antimicrobial Resistance by 2050? PLoSMed 13(11):e1002184. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.
pmed.1002184
Deloitte (2018) Leadership: Driving innovation and delivering impact—The Deloitte Global Chief
Procurement Officer Survey 2018. Deloitte, London (UK)
DGS (2017) Buy Clean California Act, 2017. Procurement Division, Department of General
Services, California (USA)
Dunford E,NivenR,Neidl C (2021)DeployingLow carbon public procurement to accelerate carbon
removal, Frontier in Climate 2021 (3) DOI=https://doi.org/10.3389/fclim.2021.686787.
EC (2010) Europe 2020—A strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, European
Commission, Brussels (Belgium).
EC (2016) Buying Green—A Handbook on Green Public Procurement, European Commission,
Brussels (Belgium)
EC (2020) Study on up-take of emerging technologies in public procurement. Directorate General
for Internal Market, Industry, Entrepreneurship and SMEs, European Commission, Brussels
(Belgium)
Enevo, (2020) How our waste technology predicts the unpredictable. Enevo Inc., Boston (USA)
EU (2017) Public Procurement for Circular Economy Good Practices and Guidance. European
Commission, Brussels (Belgium)
FAO & WFP (2018) Home-Grown School Feeding - Resource Framework. Food & Agricultural
Organization, Rome (Italy)
ICLEI Europe (2021) GPP 2020 Project Final Report, ICLEI Europe, Bonn (Germany): https://gpp
2020.eu/fileadmin/files/GPP_2020_Final_Report.pdf
Karliner J, Slotterback S, Boyd R, Ashby B, Steele K (2019) Health Care’s Climate Footprints.
Climate-Smart Health Care Series, Green Paper No 1. Health Care Without Harm, Istanbul
(Turkey)
Philips (2016) Light as a Service for Schiphol Airport. Royal Philips, Amsterdam (The Netherland)
https://doi.org/10.1111/jiec.12770
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pursup.2012.11.004
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-662-53357-4_8
https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pmed.1002184
https://doi.org/10.3389/fclim.2021.686787
https://gpp2020.eu/fileadmin/files/GPP_2020_Final_Report.pdf
382 7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
PwC (2018) Fourth Industrial Revolution for the Earth -- Harnessing Artificial Intelligence for the
Earth. PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited, London (UK)
Robey J (2020) Applying technology to sustainability challenges. Sustainability 2020(5):https://
sustainabilitymag.com/sustainability/applying-technology-sustainability-challenges
Saberi S, Kouhizadeh M, Sarkis J, Shen L (2018) Blockchain technology and its relationships to
sustainable supply chain management. Int J Prod Res 2016:1–19. https://doi.org/10.1080/002
07543.2018.1533261
Schneider S, Thies VF, Grisa C, BelikW (2016) Potential of public purchases as markets for family
farming: an analysis of Brazilian school feeding program between 2011 and 2014. In: Advances
in Food Security and Sustainability, Vol. 1. Burlington: Academic Press, 2016. p. 69–95
Shrivastava S (2021) How Much Does it Cost to Develop an IoT App?. Appinventiv, Noida (India)
SIWI (2020) Responsible Antibiotics Manufacturing Platform Inception Report, Stockholm
International Institute of Water, Stockholm (Sweden).
SPHS (2021) Sustainable Procurement Index for Health (SPIH) Virtual Session. UNDP, Istanbul
(Turkey): https://savinglivesustainably.org/knowledge-practice/contribution/sustainable-procur
ement-index-for-health-spih-virtual-session/666 Accessed 12 Sep 2021.
SPP Regions (2017) Circular Procurement Best Practice Report, ICLEI, Bonn (Germany)
Steiner M (2018) SPP, best value for money and international trade obligations: the GPA as a model
agreement. Presented in AdvancedGlobalWorkshop onGovernment Procurement,WTOGeneva
(Switzerland) 14–18 September 2018
Swensson L, Hunter D, Schneider S, Tartanac F (2021) Public food procurement for sustainable
food systems and healthy diets. FAO, Alliance of Bioversity International and CIAT and Editora
da UFRGS, Rome (Italy)
Sykehusinnkjøp (2021) New environmental criteria for the procurement of pharmaceuticals.
Sykehusinnkjøp, Vadso (Norway)
UK Govt (2019) Tackling Antimicrobial Resistance 2019–24. Department of Health and Social
Care, Government of UK, London (UK)
UN (2016) At UN, global leaders commit to act on antimicrobial resistance. UN News, New
York (USA): https://news.un.org/en/story/2016/09/539912-un-global-leaders-commit-act-antimi
crobial-resistance Accessed 01 Mar 2021
UNCTAD (2014) The Role of International Trade in the Post-2015 Development Agenda.
UNCTAD, Geneva (Switzerland).
UNDP (2020a) Sustainable Health Procurement GuidanceNote. Sustainable Procurement in Health
Sector Secretariat, Istanbul (Turkey)
UNDP (2020b) Sustainable Procurement Index for Health: Evidence Base and Technical Specifi-
cation Report. UNDP Instanbul (Turkey)
UNEP (2000) Product-Service System and Sustainability. UNEP DTIE, Paris (France)
UNEP (2018) Building Circularity into Economies through Sustainable Procurement. UNEP DTIE
Paris (France)
UNEP (2019a) Development of the Sustainable Procurement Index for Health (SPIH). UNEPDTIE,
Paris (France):https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/development-sustainable-procurement-index-
health-spih, Accessed 24 Dec 2020
UNEP (2019b) One Planet Sustainable Public Procurement Programme Strategic Plan 2019–2022,
UNEP DTIE, Paris (France): https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/sites/default/files/one_planet_
sustainable_public_procurement_programme_strategy_dec19.pdf
UNEP (2019c) Paradise lost? Travel and tourism industry takes aim at plastic pollution but more
action needed. UNEP DTIE, Paris (France)
UNEP (2019d) Transforming Tourism Through Sustainable Procurement, UNEP DTIE, Paris
(France)
UNFCCC (2021) Glasgow Climate Pact—Advanced unedited version. UNFCCC, Bonn, Germany
https://sustainabilitymag.com/sustainability/applying-technology-sustainability-challenges
https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261
https://savinglivesustainably.org/knowledge-practice/contribution/sustainable-procurement-index-for-health-spih-virtual-session/666
https://news.un.org/en/story/2016/09/539912-un-global-leaders-commit-act-antimicrobial-resistance
https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/development-sustainable-procurement-index-health-spih
https://www.oneplanetnetwork.org/sites/default/files/one_planet_sustainable_public_procurement_programme_strategy_dec19.pdf
References 383
UNWTO (2020) Growth in international tourist arrivals continues to outpace the economy. World
Tourism Barometer 2020 (18) 1. World Tourism Organisation, Madrid (Spain)
World Bank (2017) Drug Resistance Infections: A Treat to Our Economic Future. TheWorld Bank,
Washington DC (USA)
World Bank (2021) Disruptive Technologies in Public Procurement. The World Bank, Washington
DC (USA)
WTO (2012) Agreement on Government Procurement 2012 and related WTO legal texts, World
Trade Organization, Geneva (Switzerland).
	7 Evolving Role of Sustainable Procurement in Coming Decades
	7.1 Introduction
	7.1.1 Sustainable Procurement in the Context of International Trade
	7.1.2 Procurement in the Context of Circular Economy
	7.1.3 Sustainable Procurement and Industry 4.0
	7.1.4 Recent Trends in the Use of Public Procurement for Achieving Sustainability Objectives
	7.1.5 Book Summary
	References