437776_1_En_4_Chapter 63..87
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation
of Transnational Corporations
Hervé Lado
1 Introduction
North et al. (2009, 2013) have developed a conceptual framework in which they
describe development as a slow maturation of institutions from limited access social
orders (developing countries) to open access social orders (developed countries). In
limited access orders (or natural States), access to political and economic activities
is reserved for elites and violence is widespread. Institutions and organizations are
typically not sophisticated and they perform on a custom basis dependent on the
social status of individuals. Stability is ensured by a dominant coalition made of
powerful elites who manipulate rents and privileges. In open access orders, access
is open to all; the State controls violence through a Weberian monopoly of legit-
imate force. Institutions and organizations are numerous and sophisticated, and they
operate on an impersonal basis. Stability is ensured by the Schumpeterian creative
destruction mechanism through free political and economic competition.
North et al.’s framework has provided an outstanding decryption of behavior
patterns of parties involved in rent-seeking activities that shape the development
path of a social order. How do parties behave and interact in the international scene
where there is no global State, and where players come from different social orders?
Do transnational corporations (TNCs) behave the same way in any social order? To
better inform regulatory choices aimed at mandating global conduct related to the
activities of TNCs, it is crucial to understand their behavioral dynamics. In this
chapter I develop an analytical framework that reveals the development of
H. Lado (&)
16 Rue Gilbert Rousset, Asnieres sur Seine 92600, France
e-mail: herve.lado@yahoo.fr
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2019
M. M. Rahim (ed.), Code of Conduct on Transnational Corporations,
CSR, Sustainability, Ethics & Governance,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-10816-8_4
63
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-10816-8_4&amp;domain=pdf
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-10816-8_4&amp;domain=pdf
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-10816-8_4&amp;domain=pdf
mailto:herve.lado@yahoo.fr
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-10816-8_4
predator-prey dynamics1 by TNCs and States in the international social order due to
the diversity of national regulations and the limited sophistication of international
institutions. I focus on the analysis of institutional environments and not on the
content of a global code of conduct per se. Basically, effective regulations depend
not only on their intrinsic quality but also on the institutional environment in which
they are applied and the behavior of parties involved in their implementation.
The international social order is comprised of States, TNCs, and other actors
such as intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations. This
work focuses on States and TNCs, as they are pivotal players in the production and
redistribution of rents in the international arena. Further, this work explores the
specific configuration in which TNCs and States act as predator and prey, respec-
tively. Drawing on North et al.’s terminology and categorization of social orders,
this analytical framework explains the behavior of TNCs dependent on the insti-
tutional environment (open access or limited access). It appears that free political
and economic competition prevailing in the international social order enables what I
term an international order of predation.
In the first section of this chapter, the characteristics of this international social
order are analyzed and its predatory nature explained: in the search for economic and
geostrategic rents, powerful actors of the international social order may dominate the
weak and confiscate their rights, due to the insufficient sophistication of international
institutions. This sophistication is largely related to the number of organizations and
institutions, and also involves their ability to regulate the increasingly complex
interactions between actors whose powers are obviously asymmetric. TNCs play a
pivotal role in this global trend.
The second, third and fourth sections are dedicated to the actual construction of
the framework. This leads to the assessment of the risk of predation; that is, the risk
for a TNC to develop predatory behaviors vis-à-vis the host social order. The
assessment is based on the ‘Predatory Potential’ of the TNC (its propensity to
behave as a predator) and on the ‘Prey Potential’ of the host social order (its
propensity to behave as prey). A high predatory potential of a TNC and a high prey
potential of a social order does not automatically define a predator-prey relation-
ship, although this behavior is likely.
As the sustainable development (SD) and corporate social responsibility
(CSR) movements aim at combating predation and promoting more responsible
behaviors, I assume that a global code of conduct should be based on well-designed
SD and CSR tools. Therefore, in the fifth section, building on Greif and Tadelis
(2010)’s concept of crypto-morality, I demonstrate that responsible behaviors based
on SD and CSR strategies require an institutional environment where predatory
behaviors are highly detectable and heavily sanctioned.
1My concept of “predator-prey dynamics” does not refer to the equations of Lotka-Volterra, also
called “predator-prey models”, that model the dynamics of interactions between prey and preda-
tors’ biological systems.
64 H. Lado
2 The International Social Order Enables Predation
Veblen (1970) describes predation as a belligerent mindset, and a permanent rivalry
between humans in the industrial era. In ordinary animal predation or within the
social order of hunter-gatherers, the quest for food is the main driver and rents are
collected from the natural environment. Veblen’s predation goes beyond a simple
quest for food; it is based on other rationalities and entails social costs2 on the
natural and human environments. The predator generates rents in a context of
asymmetric power and domination, and so confiscates the rights of other parties
involved in the transaction. Predation is therefore an exploitation of domination
rents.
In North et al.’s view, predation thrives in an environment where institutions are
simple and weak, and have not reached enough maturity to foster a Weberian
monopoly of legitimate violence. Globalization has created an international social
order in which actors are States, corporations, intergovernmental organizations, or
non-governmental organizations. Since political and economic interactions are
ruled through competition among actors without any global State, the international
social order legitimizes predation in many areas.
2.1 Institutions of the International Order Lack
Sophistication
In the international order, there is no global State endowed with the monopoly of
legitimate force that might ensure stability and prosperity for all. It is not even
certain that a global State would be the most suitable model of international
cooperation, given the risk of totalitarianism. With the move from a bipolar towards
a multipolar world, there is much evidence that all configurations (uni/bi or mul-
tipolar) can produce abuse. Each country abides to its own laws, although inter-
national law is still being developed. The sophistication of the international social
order’s institutional network always lags behind the continuing complexification of
transactions between international players.
Moreover, all States are not party to all international agreements, and interna-
tional law covers only a limited field of international relations and global commons.
For example, the international community is still looking for an effective interna-
tional mechanism against tax avoidance and against global warming, while these
global phenomena have long been identified as predatory practices. International
law often lacks effectiveness in its application because control mechanisms are slow
by nature and might be too expensive to activate. The United Nations (UN) system
2Pigou (1932) introduced the concepts of social costs and private costs. Social costs are all costs
borne by society (including private costs) due to the existence of the business, while private costs
are all costs incurred or considered by the author of the activity.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 65
emerged as a means to organize international cooperation and to reduce the risk of
predation. However, the UN does not enjoy the sovereign power of a State, and this
severely limits its ability to thwart violence.
The international social order has neither police nor an army. The UN “Blue
Helmets” are only peacekeepers; they cannot compete with organizations such as
NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization) that enjoy more power and proven
autonomy. The intervention of the United States in 1999 in Kosovo without a UN
mandate and its entry into the war in Iraq in 2003 without any resolution of the UN
Security Council have shown that the UN lacks political and military power and
must deal with parallel initiatives from powerful States. In addition, the
International Criminal Court is only qualified to judge mass crimes and human
rights violations, and based on its present operation, it is possible for powerful
States to avoid their international responsibilities.3
The international social order has no government, to speak of. The UN Security
Council consists of five permanent members who have the power of veto—USA,
Russia, France, the United Kingdom, and China—and ten non-permanent members
who sit a two-year term. It is possible for powerful States to instrument this
international body for their strategic interests under the guise of defending the
public interest or human rights.4 Through various means, powerful States can direct
the operation of the United Nations and its specialized agencies. For example, in
2012, the United States stood against the entry of the Palestinian State to UNESCO
by removing its significant funding to the organization.
The international order has certainly found some stability with the advent of the
UN, which so far has served as a space for dialogue, and has helped avoid further
world wars and reduced transactions costs for States. However, with the prevailing
lack of sophistication, it is possible for powerful States to dominate.
2.2 Powerful Actors Dominate the International Order
For North et al. (2009: 131), the domination by powerful States is the condition of
their survival: “To survive, open access orders must have the ability to succeed, not
only in economic competition but also in violent competition. Without this ability,
they risk succumbing to the ambitions of authoritarian states. (…) This risk remains
today, as international terrorism and the events of 9/11 emphasize.”
Within the international social order, powerful States may manipulate rents and
privileges through aid and multidimensional cooperation, or through the expansion
3For example, for various reasons including refusal to sign or ratify the Rome Statute, the United
States and the United Kingdom have been able to evade their responsibilities in the war and chaos
in Iraq since 2003.
4The UN Resolution 1973 in 2011 which enabled the international military intervention in Libya
was diverted by leading powerful States, including France, and this led to the killing of Muammar
Gaddafi and destabilization of the whole Sahel.
66 H. Lado
of their TNCs. As North et al. (2009: 132) explains in terms of the Cold War: “US
aid often depended on market reform; for example, the famous Marshall Plan after
World War II required as a condition that the countries of Western Europe lower
tariff barriers to one another, create a realistic plan for macroeconomic man-
agement, and join a new organization for economic cooperation called the
Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Aid focused
on market economies for providing prosperity in part as a means of making
socialism a less attractive alternative.” The array of sanctions against an uncoop-
erative State range from the withdrawal of funding to banishment in terms of
embargo, civil war or targeted killings. For example, in 2013, the United States
issued reports showing how and why, in recent history, the US government
inspired, supported, or sponsored various coups.5 Powerful countries make use of
secret services, armies, and diplomacy as weapons for their geostrategic interests,
including their TNCs’ expansion.
Until recently, the main TNCs were from the western world or Russia. Now they
also come from emerging countries (see Nurdin and Djermoun 2015), like
ArcelorMittal in India, Petronas in Brazil, MTN in South Africa, ONA in Morocco,
Dangote in Nigeria, or Huawei in China. These companies are involved in the
defense of their home State’s economic and geostrategic interests. TNCs forge
political alliances and shape institutions to maintain their competitiveness and
ensure their domination over national and international competitors. Robert Reich
(2011: 120) illustrates these alliances in the United States: “In recent years, Wall
Street has shown extraordinary generosity to the two major US political parties; it
is even one of the greatest donors of the Democratic Party. Overall in 2009, the
financial world has spent more than $300 M in lobbying to influence the repre-
sentatives and senators. During the 2008 election, Wall Street donated more than
$88 M to Democratic candidates and more than $67 M to Republican candidates,
placing the world of finance at the forefront of generous donors.”
Because of these interdependent relationships between TNCs and home States, it
is common to see the image and reputation of a TNC associated with that of its
home country and vice versa. It is also common for States to equate national
economic interests to those of their TNCs in international competition. Heads of
States and Governments mobilize to promote their corporations, for example, by
bringing delegations of TNC representatives during official travels abroad.
Globalization has increased the geostrategic role of TNCs by aligning their
objectives to the interests of States, thereby strengthening TNCs’ predatory
potential.
5For example, in Guatemala in 1954 against Jacobo Arbenz (who had openly questioned the land
interests of the US TNC United Fruit Company), or in Iran in 1953 against Mohammed
Mossadegh (who had decided upon the nationalization of oil, then controlled by the British
company Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, when oil was essential to the recovery of England after
World War II) (Le Monde 2013; NSA 2013).
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 67
3 The Predatory Potential of a TNC
The predatory potential of an actor refers to its propensity to develop predatory
behaviors. To move and settle in another social order, various motivations guide a
TNC, including the existence of business opportunities, the ability to mobilize
resources for this development, and incentives offered by the host social order.
From an institutional perspective, a corporation based in only one country is mainly
subject to national regulation. Once settled in an additional country, a TNC is
subject to three regulatory systems: (i) its home social order (which is an open
access order or a limited access order); (ii) the host social order (which is an open
access order or a limited access order); and (iii) the international social order (which
is an international order of predation as demonstrated above).
Concerning the international social order, a mix of national and international
regulations governs the operations of TNCs (including between its subsidiaries and
headquarters, or among its subsidiaries, or with other partners). These regulations
stem from central banks, regional organizations like the European Union, or
international organizations like the World Trade Organization (WTO). There is
often a lack of consistency between various regulations, yet international transac-
tions continue to increase in sophistication.
Let’s analyze in this section the predatory potential of a TNC by observing its
behavior when it moves from one social order to another. This will enable the
identification of the determinants that will foster predatory tendencies of a TNC:
some of these determinants are intrinsic while others are related to its home social
order. This section will conclude with the presentation of some predatory behavior
commonly observed in the activities of TNCs.
3.1 Behavioral Adjustment in Different Social Orders
Does a TNC behave in the same manner when it moves into another social order?
To support their commitment to ethical behavior, TNCs usually claim that they
implement the same rules in every location. However, they behave differently in
different social orders, as “the same institutions work differently in different cir-
cumstances, particularly in the absence or presence of open access.” (North et al.
2009: 256). So how do TNCs adapt their behavior to their institutional
environment?
When a TNC settles in a new social order, it may keep the same behavior if the
host social order is comparable to the home social order. If the social order differs, it
may also experience a transition to become compatible with the host social order’s
institutions. Table 1 specifies four cases (a, b, c and d):
68 H. Lado
a. When a TNC moves from an open access order into another, it finds organi-
zations and norms of the same level of sophistication. It also finds the same
operating mode (free political and economic competition), though differences
may still exist. The host social order will then compel the TNC to remain
compliant to these open access institutions, as they easily detect predatory
behaviors and apply dissuasive sanctions. Consequently, the TNC will keep
behaving like an actor of an open access order.
b. When the TNC moves from a limited access order into an open access order, it
finds organizations and institutions of a higher level of sophistication. The host
social order will appear more demanding in the fight against predation because
of high detectability and heavy sanctions. The TNC must transition into an actor
of the open access order or experience risk of penalties or expulsion. The violent
turmoil faced by Arcelor-Mittal in France in 2012–2013 due to the closing of a
production site6 showcases the level of vigilance that institutions and organi-
zations (government, trade unions, media, etc.) in an open access order (France)
can develop in order to force an actor of a limited access order (India), however
it is economically powerful, to comply with open access host institutions.
c. When the TNC moves from a limited access order into a limited access order, it
finds organizations and institutions of the same operating mode (manipulation of
rents and privileges). Differences in rules and enforcement may be notable,
especially between primary natural States and mature ones, but in any natural
State, personalized interactions remain. Thus, the TNC will remain an actor of
Table 1 TNCs’ behavioral dynamics from one social order to another
HOST Social Order
Open Access
Order
Limited Access
Order
HOME 
Social 
Order
Open Access
Order
a.
Actor of an Open 
Access Order
d.
MUTATION
Into an Actor of a Limited 
Access Order or of an 
Order of Predation
Limited Access
Order
b.
MUTATION
Into an Actor of an 
Open Access Order
c.
Actor of a Limited Access 
Order or of an Order of 
Predation
Source Author
6See L’Humanite.fr (2012) and the outcome with Lang-Roth (2013).
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 69
limited access orders. It may also develop predatory practices if its bargaining
power is much higher than the host social order’s. Thus, the risk of predation
between a TNC from China (mature natural State) and an African country
(fragile or primary natural States) is high because of the huge bargaining power
of the Chinese TNC, especially when it is sponsored or owned by the
government.
d. When the TNC moves from an open access order into a limited access order, it
finds organizations and institutions of a lower level of sophistication. The host
social order will appear alien to the TNC because of the local tendency to
personalize relationships and manipulate rents and privileges. Used to imper-
sonalized relationships and free political and economic competition, the TNC
will need to adapt to local customs. The more it will need to interact with local
organizations and population, the more it will be required to adapt to their
manner of functioning. This adaptation consists of a moral transition that
transforms the TNC into an actor of the limited access order. The TNC may also
develop predatory practices if its bargaining power is much higher than the host
social order’s. This is the case of western TNCs, like the French Bolloré, Areva,
or Total, or the American ExxonMobil when they settled in Africa.
Ultimately, a TNC is likely to sustainably develop predatory behaviors when it
moves into a limited access order, be it from an open or a limited access order
(cases c and d). The greater the TNC’s predatory potential, the higher the proba-
bility it will develop predatory behaviors.
3.2 Characteristics of the TNC and Its Home Social Order
Now let’s define some characteristics of the TNC’s predatory potential. There are
four: two intrinsic to the TNC (economic weight, and predatory nature of the
products or services), one related to the unique relationship between the TNC and
its home social order, and the last one related to the home social order itself. All
four are specified below, but for simplicity, this work will focus on three.
3.2.1 The Predatory Nature of Products and Services of the TNC
Some products and services have predatory attributes, in that the production process
or their use generates high social costs. One of the most obvious predatory attri-
butes is pollution. Such products include oil and gas, uranium, phytosanitary
products, etc. Among the most iconic illustrations of the predatory nature of a
product or a production process, let’s cite the case of the US TNC Union Carbide
and Carbon Corporation (UCC) that caused the Bhopal disaster in India in 1984,
which affected almost 600,000 people, including 20,000 killed (Amnesty
International 2014).
70 H. Lado
Other predatory characteristics are less obvious as they affect lifestyles and
institutions within a host social order. As Ozawa (2016: 6) states regarding TNCs:
“They are innovators, disseminators of commercial knowledge, and prompters of
structural change in home and host countries alike. […] TNCs are a puissant agent
of structural change and growth across the global landscape.” In their tendency to
innovate, multinationals may prove predatory. This is the case, for example in
developing countries, where some luxury goods that are not manufactured locally
(champagne, luxury vehicles, jewelry, etc.) are highly consumed, thus generating an
exsanguination of local purchasing power which would have better served to
develop local economies. As another predatory attribute, one can evoke the
propensity of some natural resources, such as wood, oil or minerals, to foster social
tensions and even fuel civil wars.
The clear majority of TNCs handling these predatory products (oil, mining,
pharmaceuticals, energy, chemicals, etc.) also display significant economic power.
Therefore, to simplify this framework, let’s assimilate them with companies that
have significant economic power (see 3.2.2 below). This limits the characteristics
defining a TNC’s predatory potential to the following three.
3.2.2 The Economic Power of the TNC
When the economic power of a TNC is important, the TNC is likely to build strong
impersonal and personalized relationships with its home social order. For example,
given their economic weight in France, Total and Alstom groups are close to French
public officials, and have built privileged relationships with MPs and government
representatives. Similarly, ArcelorMittal maintains privileged relationships with
Indian authorities.
The economic power of a TNC is appreciated here in absolute terms with respect
to other actors in the international scene. It is also perceived in relative terms with
respect to the home or host social orders. Economic power may refer to the sales of
the company, its market capitalization, and its brand reputation. It may also refer to
the TNC’s ability to mobilize resources in financial markets, or from its home social
order (including subsidies, exemptions, and public support for international
development). For example, as Total Group is one of the most powerful corpora-
tions in the world, it is obvious that in Nigeria its economic power is also seen as
significant in absolute terms. Moreover, in that country, Total represents approxi-
mately 15% of oil production, and is thus among the top four producers, so even its
relative economic weight is significant. Therefore, in an analysis of Total in
Nigeria, its economic power will be important. The French group Boissons et
Glacières Internationales (BGI) has negligible absolute economic power, but it has
important relative power in a limited access order like Cameroon, with its sub-
sidiary Brasseries du Cameroon, which is a top five company; therefore, BGI will
be important in Cameroon due to its relative economic power. A significant
absolute economic power often implies a significant relative weight, but not vice
versa.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 71
Economic power is dynamic and changes dependent on the economic and
financial situation of the company. An important economic power is based on the
existence of substantial financial resources that enhance and sustain the bargaining
power of the TNC, as well as its corruptive power. Because of its economic power,
the TNC can build predatory alliances with local actors to secure its rents. It can
also mobilize savvy and costly legal advice to protect these rents. For example, it is
now established (see Le Floch-Prigent and Decouty 2001) that the defunct French
company Elf forged predatory alliances with some African governments partly
because it could generate almost limitless financial resources for African leaders,
and thus fund their armies or militias. Such economic power also allowed Goldman
Sachs in 2014 to spend up to 800,000 EUR in lobbying the European Commission
and 3.4 M USD in the US to influence political decisions in its favor (David and
Lefèvre 2015). TNCs that enjoy such economic power are able to develop their
rents, to endorse high penalties when their predatory behaviors are sanctioned, and
to render these behaviors less detectable.
3.2.3 The Strategic Importance of the TNC for the Home Social Order
Strategic importance refers to the importance of the company’s business to the
home social order: either the State is the owner of the company, or the business is
important for the survival of the State, or the TNC’s economic power is so
important that the home social order considers it as one of its flagship businesses.
For example, Areva Group is highly strategic to the French State because of its key
role in the energy independence of the country. To some extent, Alstom, Air
France, or Total groups are also strategic. Regarding US companies, and according
to Gilpin (1987: 241), “American corporate and political leaders have in general
believed that the foreign expansion of American corporations serves important
national interests in the United States. American policies have encouraged cor-
porate expansion abroad and have tended to protect them.”
Powerful States mobilize whenever they are requested by their TNCs within the
country or abroad to support their expansion through economic diplomacy mech-
anisms. For Stopford and Strange (1991), whatever the internationalization of its
operations, a TNC maintains an interdependent relationship with its home State,
and the TNC psychologically and sociologically belongs to its home country. Even
when the TNC’s economic power is not important, should it prove strategic to its
home country, the TNC is likely to develop predatory behaviors when operating
abroad.
3.2.4 The Power of the Home Social Order
For Keohane and Nye (2012: 10), “Power can be thought of as the ability of an
actor to get others to do something they otherwise would not do—and accept at an
acceptable cost to the actor. Power can be conceived in terms of control over
72 H. Lado
outcomes.” Gilpin (1987) and Keohane (1984) consider the power of a social order
in terms of the effective control it exerts on wealth creation, including raw mate-
rials, sources of capital and markets, or the manufacture of high added value
products. Power relates to a proven ability derived from low vulnerability to
internal and external shocks and from real influence through demonstrated military
capabilities.
Strange (1988, 1996: 70) attributes the current hegemony of world powers to the
mastering of four factors of power related to international political economy (se-
curity, finance, production, and knowledge). Strange (1988, 1996) highlights the
importance of structural power that confers the capacity to dominate without that
intention. To describe a country’s power and influence, Knorr (1975: 6) distin-
guishes military power, economic power, and what he calls political penetrative
power, which is a “variety of overt or clandestine activities” like “propaganda,
fomenting of political unrest and strikes, support of opposition parties or revolu-
tionary groups, bribing of officials or political leaders.”
To summarize, the power of a social order refers to its actual ability to defend its
national interests in the international scene by mobilizing required economic and
political resources. Power depends on a social order’s technological prowess and
the effectiveness of its governance system.7 This enables a social order to withstand
internal and external shocks, generates multifaceted resources (financial, military,
technological, diplomatic, etc.) and supports the expansion of TNCs. Therefore, a
powerful social order is likely to enable predatory behaviors by its TNCs.
3.3 Analysis of the Predatory Potential of a TNC
Table 2 provides an assessment of the predatory potential of a TNC based on the
three criteria specified above. It is an attempt to estimate a propensity, not a
mathematical calculation, and is intended to be logical and empirically verifiable.
The predatory potential of a TNC is high when it has economic power; in fact,
economic power turns out to be the most decisive criterion. However, when there is
a combination of a strategic TNC and a powerful home social order, the TNC’s
economic weight is not important, as the home social order will expend effort to
ensure the sustainability of the TNC in the host social order. For example, this is the
case of TNCs within the military weapons industry: regardless of their economic
weight, their promotion is de facto undertaken by the home social order.
7The characteristics of the social order will be specified when defining the prey potential (Sect. 3).
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 73
3.4 Example of Predatory Behaviors of TNCs
A TNC with a high predatory potential does not always act as a predator. However,
if it does, it typically utilizes various dominating behaviors, especially within
natural States. Some of these behaviors are detailed below:
• Corruption of government officials due to financial resources that sometimes
exceed those of host natural States.
• Tax avoidance: the most sophisticated accounting practices allow TNCs to
legally obtain revenues from host countries through tax havens or transfer prices
manipulation (see OECD 2013).
• Intimidation or violence against local stakeholders (employees, unions, NGOs,
etc.) opposed to the company’s practices.
• Use of production techniques, processes, or raw materials prohibited in their
home social orders, but tolerated or uncontrolled in the host social order, while
the negative impact on health or environment is evidenced.
• Waste discharges without treatment, or natural environment destruction without
repair.
• Development of transactions with co-contractors, subcontractors, suppliers, or
customers who maintain predatory behaviors in their own value chains.
• Complicity in destabilizing institutions of host social orders, through fueling of
militias or coups.
• Large philanthropic engagements while there are unaddressed negative impacts
of business core activities on human and natural environments: in this case,
philanthropic actions appear as a corruptive approach to divert attention.
• More broadly, the violation or complicity of violation of human rights in the
company’s sphere of influence.
This list is obviously not exhaustive. Predatory behaviors refer to all TNCs’
activities that generate unaddressed social costs. While representing an opportunity
for extra profits or savings for the company, these social costs are incurred by
stakeholders without their knowledge, without their free and informed consent, or
without fair compensation.
Table 2 The predatory potential of a TNC
Economic power Yes Yes Yes Yes No No No No
Strategic importance Yes Yes No No Yes Yes No No
Power of the home social
order
Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No
Predatory potential High High High High High Medium Low Low
Yes = Important and No = Not important. For simplification, only these two possible answers
have been used
Source Author
74 H. Lado
4 The Prey Potential of a Social Order
In this section, factors that dictate the prey behavior of social orders in the inter-
national social order are addressed. A social order is as exposed to predators as it is
lacking in power. Coming back to the determinants of the power of a State (cf.
3.2.4) developed by Strange (1988), namely security, finance, production, and
knowledge, let’s group these into two major factors: Governance8 and Innovation.
North et al. (2009: 133, 136, 270) define Governance in terms of the Hayek’s
adaptive efficiency. This concept describes the ability of a social order to constantly
adjust its decision-making processes, and the effective implementation of these
decisions. North et al. (2009) define Innovation in terms of the Schumpeterian
dynamics of creative destruction conducive to economic development.
Governance encompasses the whole process of coordination of actors to achieve
collectively bargained plans (Dubresson and Jaglin 2002), while Innovation is the
process and outcome of creating something new of value. These two axes
respectively evoke the political capacity and economic capacity, and are both
embedded in a virtuous circle of development. The political capacity (Governance)
enhances the ability of institutions and organizations to act with effectiveness, while
the economic capacity (Innovation) enables financial, technological and military
means that support the social order’s ambitions. Some measurements will be pro-
vided in Sect. 3.2 when illustrating the prey potential of some African countries.
The power of governance and innovation systems reflects respectively the
quality of political and economic factors; economic factors being capital, labor,
technology, knowledge, and institutions. All military powers and all open access
orders have built effective governance and innovation systems that support political
responsiveness when they face any adversity. The quality of governance and
innovation systems determines the social order’s resilience against predators, but
also its ability to behave as a predator.
4.1 Power and Resilience of the Host Social Order
Governance and Innovation represent the resilience of the social order. North et al.
(2009: 42) portray a fragile natural State as an institutional environment where
resilience is weak: “the State can barely sustain itself in the face of internal and
external violence. Contemporary examples include Haiti, Iraq, Afghanistan,
Somalia, and several other places in sub-Saharan Africa. In a fragile natural State,
8Governance should not be reduced to the ‘good governance’ doctrine constructed for developing
countries in the 1980s by the Bretton Woods institutions and international development finance
institutions for structural adjustment plans and democratic reforms. Such an approach of gover-
nance is exogenous. In contrast, governance is a mix of endogenous leadership and relevant
decisions that are successfully implemented.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 75
commitments within dominant coalition are fluid and unstable, often shifting
rapidly, and dependent on the individual identity and personality of the coalition
members. The coalition is fragile in the sense that small changes in the situation of
the coalition members—changes in relative prices, any number of shocks from
climate, neighboring peoples, disease, and so on—can upset the coalition. (…)
Because of their fluidity, fragile natural States are also characterized by simple
institutional structures.” Therefore, powerlessness is a matter of weak governance
and poor innovation systems.
As Diamond (1997) highlights, germs brought by Europeans killed most of the
population of the Incan Empire (up to three-quarters in some cases) in the sixteenth
century. However, it was only the European governance system and their innova-
tion system (technological, military, and political superiority) that enabled them to
reach the South American coast, thus surprising the Incas. The latter certainly could
never have considered reaching Europe and invading Spain. Building on institu-
tions that were more conducive to technological progress, Europeans resisted their
predators and exerted predation over other social orders.
4.1.1 Governance Axis—Innovation Axis
The Governance or political axis refers to the ability to make the right decisions and
organize and mobilize resources to address the challenges faced by the social order.
A well-governed social order can avoid being predated by surprise, whether by
natural disasters or foreign TNCs. Governance is not necessarily equivalent to what
is commonly called democracy; here it relates to making the right decisions in a
timely manner. Without being a democracy, the regime of General Park Chung-Hee
transformed South Korea in the 1960s into an open social order, thus escaping its
prey status. Contemporary China is not a democracy, but it provides an example in
which the prey status has been avoided under the party leadership.
It is one thing is to be able to organize, and another to provide effective material
means to achieve organization through innovation. Material means does not simply
refer to the funds available, but to the endogenous capacity to generate these
financial resources, which requires entrepreneurial, scientific, technical, and tech-
nological aptitudes of the social order to address adversity. This innovation axis
reflects the ability to invent, learn, and renew methods of handling the changing
natural and human environment. It refers to the accumulated stock of knowledge,
the quality of human resources, and the capacity of institutions to develop
knowledge. Overall, it determines the ability of a social order to conquer and
dominate, or at least to withstand adversity.
If a social order is weak on these two axes, it is thus vulnerable and exposed to
predators, displaying a high prey potential.
76 H. Lado
4.1.2 Summary Diagrams of the Prey Potential of a Social Order
Both the governance system and innovation system can be simplified as either high
or low. Combining the two criteria, Table 3 presents the four possible situations
regarding the prey potential of a social order.
With Governance along the x-axis and Innovation along the y-axis, the prey
potential of a social order can be interpreted on the four dials of Fig. 1.
Dial I: Strong governance is coupled with a strong innovation system; the social
order is likely to escape TNCs’ predatory practices. This social order is strong and
can sustain economic and geo-strategic ambitions, including through its own TNCs.
The prey potential is low.
Dial II: There is a strong governance system but the innovation system is still
weak. The social order can lead and implement reforms, but under an inefficient
innovation system. In such conditions, predators may thrive; at least until the
governance mechanisms enable the technical and technological capacity to resist. In
the meantime, the social order is vulnerable to predation. The prey potential may be
high or medium.
Dial III: There is a strong innovation system but governance is still weak.
Sophisticated technical and technological capacities are overseen by poor man-
agement and leadership. Such a social order remains vulnerable to predation. The
prey potential may be high or medium.
Dial IV: A weak governance capacity coupled with an inefficient innovation
system inevitably exposes the social order to predators. There is an inability to lead,
implement, fund, or support governance and innovation systems. Such a social
order is not resilient to predators or natural disasters. The prey potential is high.
Now, let’s illustrate this prey potential assessment framework by analyzing the
prey potential of some African countries.
4.2 Assessment of the Prey Potential of Some African
Countries
Data that are analyzed here on the level of governance in Africa come from the Mo
Ibrahim Foundation, which defines governance as “the provision of the political,
Table 3 Assessment of the prey potential of social orders
Prey potential Governance
Low High
Innovation High Medium Low
Low High Medium
Source Author
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 77
social and economic goods that a citizen has the right to expect from his or her
State, and that a State has the responsibility to deliver to its citizens”.9
Regarding the innovation system, the INSEAD-WIPO-Cornell University
Global Innovation Index (GII)10 is used, which covers all continents.
III
Strong Innovation System
But insufficient capacities to 
lead or implement reforms
Medium Prey Potential
I 
Strong Governance and 
Innovation Systems
Virtuous circle of governance 
and innovation embedded in 
institutions
Low Prey Potential
Probable Predator
IV
Weak Governance and 
Innovation Systems
Inability to support, fund, 
lead or implement reforms 
and innovation
High Prey Potential
Probable Prey
II
Strong Governance System
But insufficient capacities to 
support or nurture 
innovation
Medium Prey Potential
Fig. 1 Typology of the prey potential of social orders
9For more information on this organization and index construction, see http://mo.ibrahim.
foundation/fr/iiag/.
10For more information on this index, see https://www.globalinnovationindex.org/.
78 H. Lado
http://mo.ibrahim.foundation/fr/iiag/
http://mo.ibrahim.foundation/fr/iiag/
https://www.globalinnovationindex.org/
4.2.1 Governance: The Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG)
The Mo Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG) has four categories, 14
subcategories, and over 90 indicators from 30 independent institutions, and stands
as the most integrated measurement of governance in Africa. Since 2006, its
ranking has earned a consistently high reputation and is now a reference for sys-
tematic and regular studies on governance in Africa. The edition published in 2015
ranked the 54 countries. The categories and subcategories are:
• Safety and Rule of Law
• Participation and Human Rights
• Sustainable Economic Opportunity
• Human Development.
4.2.2 Innovation: The Global Innovation Index (GII)
Originally launched in 2003 by INSEAD Business School (Fontainebleau, France),
as of 2016 the GII is in its ninth edition, published in partnership with the World
Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) and the Johnson Cornell University. The
six main components are:
• Input: Innovation Institutions
• Input: Human Capital and Research
• Input: Infrastructures
• Input: Market sophistication
• Output: Knowledge Products
• Output: Inventions.
Going beyond the usual measures of innovation that focus on the level of
research and development, the GII develops a horizontal vision of innovation that is
applicable to both developed and developing countries. In the 2016 edition, only 28
African countries were ranked. Table 4 and Fig. 2 are based on the 28 African
countries where there are both IIAG and GII data.
4.2.3 The Governance-Innovation Relationship for Africa
Given that there are only African countries presented in Fig. 2, the four dials have
been adjusted to the data of the continent in order to obtain an intelligible display.11
It is obvious that the introduction of a European country would upset the posi-
tioning of African countries, as these countries would all (Mauritius and South
11This adjustment involves a shift (in equal proportion) to the right on the Governance axis and up
on the Innovation axis.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 79
Africa included) join the dial IV. However, it would not change the relative
positioning of different African countries within the dial.
According to Fig. 2:
• Dial I: Three countries of the 28 (Mauritius, South Africa, Tunisia) represent a
low prey potential. South Africa, which already possesses TNCs, is likely to
develop predatory behavior.
• Dial II: Four countries (Botswana, Namibia, Ghana, Senegal) represent a
medium or high prey potential, as their innovation system is still weak while
their governance system is improving.
Table 4 2015 IIAG on governance and 2016 GII on innovation in Africa
Country Governance Innovation
Mauritius 79.9 35.86
Botswana 74.2 28.96
South Africa 73.0 35.85
Namibia 70.4 28.24
Ghana 67.3 26.66
Tunisia 66.9 30.55
Senegal 62.4 26.14
Rwanda 60.7 29.96
Zambia 59.5 19.92
Kenya 58.8 30.36
Benin 58.8 22.25
Morocco 57.6 32.26
Malawi 56.7 27.26
Tanzania 56.7 26.35
Ouganda 54.6 27.14
Algeria 52.9 24.46
Mozambique 52.3 29.84
Burkina Faso 52.2 21.05
Egypt 51.3 25.96
Madagascar 49.1 24.79
Mali 48.7 24.77
Ethiopia 48.6 24.83
Niger 48.4 20.44
Togo 48.4 18.42
Côte d’Ivoire 48.3 25.80
Cameroon 45.9 22.82
Burundi 45.8 20.93
Nigeria 44.9 23.15
Source Author, according to 2015 IIAG and 2016 GII reports
80 H. Lado
M
au
rit
iu
s 
So
ut
h 
Af
ric
a
Tu
ni
si
a 
N
am
ib
ia
 Bo
ts
w
an
a
M
or
oc
co
G
ha
na
Ke
ny
a
Se
ne
ga
l
Rw
an
da
Eg
yp
t
Za
m
bi
a
M
oz
am
bi
qu
e
O
ug
an
da
M
al
i 
M
al
aw
i
Ca
m
er
oo
n
Bu
rk
in
a 
Fa
so
N
ig
er
ia
 
Al
ge
ria
 
Be
ni
n
M
ad
ag
as
ca
r
Ta
nz
an
ia
Et
hi
op
ia
Cô
te
 d
'Iv
oi
re
To
go
Bu
ru
nd
i
N
ig
er
15
22
.530
37
.545
30
45
60
75
90
INNOVATION : 2016 GII Index
G
O
VE
RN
AN
CE
 : 
20
15
 II
AG
 In
de
x
F
ig
.
2
Pr
ey
po
te
nt
ia
l
of
A
fr
ic
an
co
un
tr
ie
s:
go
ve
rn
an
ce
—
in
no
va
tio
n
re
la
tio
ns
hi
p
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 81
• Dial III: Four countries (Morocco, Kenya, Mozambique and Rwanda) represent
a medium or high prey potential, as their governance system is still weak while
their innovation system is improving.
• Dal IV: The remaining 17 countries represent a high prey potential, as their
weak governance and innovation systems expose them to predators.
The strong correlation between Governance and Innovation appears very clearly
in Fig. 2 and highlights a progressive trend from dial IV to dial I (following the
dashed line). Passage through dials II and III appears to be optional. Such a cor-
relation is not surprising given the overlapping of political and economic capacity
reflected in the content of both indices.
5 The Risk of Predation
The definition of the predatory potential of a TNC and the prey potential of a social
order enables the overall assessment of the risk of predation. From the three values
(high, medium, low) of both predatory and prey potentials, there are nine possi-
bilities for the risk of predation, as presented in Table 5.
The risk of predation by a TNC is high when its predatory potential and the prey
potential of the social order are high. It may also be high when the predatory
potential is high while the prey potential is medium, and vice versa.
As the behavioral dynamics of TNCs according to institutional environments
have now been specified, let’s explore the conditions required to effectively regulate
the activities of TNCs though sustainable development and corporate social
responsibility standards.
6 Regulating TNCs Behavior Through SD and CSR
From a focus on the natural environment, the sustainable development (SD) and
corporate social responsibility (CSR) movements have gradually extended their
attention to all dimensions of human and social life. Today, they broadly address
human rights violations and thus actually combat predation. Basically, SD and CSR
Table 5 The risk of predation by a TNC
Prey potential of the social order
High Medium Low
Predatory potential of the TNC High High High Medium
Medium High Medium Low
Low Medium Low Low
Source Author
82 H. Lado
movements are aiming for the transformation of predatory practices into responsible
behaviors.
I assume that a global code of conduct on TNCs would consist of mechanisms to
combat predation based on SD/CSR standards, strategies, and tools. Some of the
now existing SD/CSR standards, like the Global Compact, the Extractive Industry
Transparency Initiative (EITI), or OECD Principles for TNCs, have paved the way
towards more effective and operational tools. Effective regulations depend not only
on their intrinsic quality but also on the institutional environments where they are
applied and the parties involved. I draw upon the concept of crypto-morality to
sketch the institutional conditions under which TNCs are likely to effectively
implement SD/CSR standards against predation.
6.1 Crypto-Morality
The concept of crypto-morality developed by Greif and Tadelis (2010) is based on
the work of Bisin and Verdier (2001) on socialization. Socialization is the process
by which social norms are transmitted and internalized by individuals. The pos-
tulate is as follows: in institutional environments where the intrinsic morality of an
individual is easily detectable and highly penalized, a moral transition to the new
morality is observed; elsewhere, the individual operates a simple behavioral tran-
sition and maintains a hidden practice of his intrinsic morality, a crypto-morality.
Applied to TNCs, their predatory or responsible rent-seeking activities will
depend on the cost-benefit analysis they undergo when interacting with society. In
this analysis, the characteristics of the institutional environment are pivotal, espe-
cially due to stakeholders’ propensity to detect and penalize TNCs’ predatory
practices. There are four potential scenarios, but before specifying them, let’s
explore the notions of detectability and penalties.
A TNC’s predatory practices are detectable when stakeholders (especially the
State) have the right, the opportunity, and the ability to observe them, and they can
provide evidence and enforce penalties. As such, strong economic and political
inequalities between a company (more powerful) and stakeholders may undermine
detectability. Mitchell (2013) shows how oil production activity is anti-democratic
in nature because of its short value chain, its high technological intensity, and its
isolation at sea or in rural areas where stakeholders can be little informed.
Penalties are the stakeholders’ response to a TNC’s predatory practices.
Penalties include sanctions (when suitable enforcing institutions exist and they are
effectively implemented), and any negative impact that stakeholders’ actions may
cause on the TNC’s image and reputation, and incidentally on its economic and
financial performance. A penalty is typically sufficient for victims if it is at least
equivalent to the social costs incurred, and it is sufficiently dissuasive for a TNC if it
exceeds extra savings or profits the TNC has incurred due to the challenged
predatory practices.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 83
6.2 TNCs’ Cost-Benefit Analysis of Predation
Depending on the detectability of predation and the level of penalties, there are four
scenarios corresponding to two behaviors: behavioral transition under
crypto-morality, and moral transition (see Table 6).12
Scenario 4—Non-Detectable Predation and Low Penalties: it is almost impos-
sible to detect the TNC’s predatory behaviors, and any potential penalties are low.
The company will be encouraged to continue predation as long as resulting savings
or benefits outweigh penalties. The TNC’s SD/CSR commitment will consist of a
simple behavioral transition to assure a positive image and reputation.
Scenario 3—Non-Detectable Predation and High Penalties: the TNC would pay
heavy penalties if its predatory behavior became detectable. Therefore, the TNC
will strive to keep its predatory practices non-detectable. It may hide pollution, or
bribe and intimidate the most threatening stakeholders to ensure their cooperation.
The TNC’s SD/CSR commitment will consist of a simple behavioral transition to
assure a positive image and reputation.
Scenario 2—Detectable Predation and Low Penalties: it is possible for stake-
holders to easily identify that the TNC practices predation, but penalties are low.
The company will only endorse these residual penalties while reducing its exposure
to stakeholders, and therefore, any SD/CSR commitment will consist of a simple
behavioral transition.
Scenario 1—Detectable Predation and High Penalties: the TNC’s SD/CSR
commitment may consist of a moral transition to an actual fight against predation.
This is the case in environments where institutions are strong and credible. Here,
stakeholders are informed and able to enforce penalties against predators. The TNC
does not stop innovating regarding methods of predation, but the institutional
environment is so dynamic that stakeholders are also able to keep innovating to
detect and penalize any new predatory practices.
In all three scenarios 4, 3 and 2, the TNC’s SD/CSR engagement remains
superficial. It is manipulated through various ethical codes and standards to cover
predatory rent-seeking activities. Scenario 1 represents a situation where the TNC is
forced to undertake a moral transition as its predatory attempts are regularly
detected and punished. Such a moral transition does not immunize the company to
Table 6 TNCs’ strategies vis-à-vis SD/CSR engagement
High penalties Low penalties
Detectable predation 1. Moral transition 2. Behaviorial transition
(crypto-morality)
Non-detectable
predation
3. Behaviorial transition
(crypto-morality)
4. Behaviorial transition
(crypto-morality)
Source Author
12This cost-benefit analysis has been introduced in Lado (2016).
84 H. Lado
predation. Crypto-morality is merely reduced and is likely to re-emerge once the
company notices a slackening in detection practices and penalties. Thus, the TNCs’
SD/CSR engagement against predation is dynamic: it evolves alongside the regu-
lation and stakeholders’ ability to maintain an active watch on predatory practices.
7 Conclusion
In the search of conditions for a successful development of a global code of conduct
for TNCs, the ambition of this work was to analyze the behavioral dynamics of
transnational corporations (TNCs) with respect to the institutional environments in
which they operate. In fact, effective regulations for responsible behavior depend
not only on their intrinsic quality but also on the institutional environment where
they are applied and behavior of parties involved in their implementation. Building
on North et al. (2009)’s conceptual framework on the categorization of social orders
(limited access order or developing countries vs. open access order or developed
countries), I have developed an analytical framework on the behavioral dynamics of
TNCs when they move from one social order to another. The analysis of
predator-prey dynamics between TNCs and States (in what I have defined as an
international order of predation) reveals that TNCs are more likely to develop
predatory practices in limited access orders where the prey potential is high. Greif
and Tadelis (2010) concept of crypto-morality provides grounds for the demon-
stration that the sustainable development (SD) and corporate social responsibility
(CSR) movements are likely to be effective in mandating responsible behavior in
institutional environments where TNCs’ predatory behaviors are highly detectable
and heavily penalized.
To describe predatory and prey potentials, I have made use of the indicators
‘important’, ‘high’, ‘low’ or ‘medium’. I’m aware that these terms only partially
represent a reality that is complex by nature and varies from one TNC or social
order to another. An attempt to move towards a more predictive analysis framework
would require definition of discrete thresholds of these indicators; however, the
elaboration of a predictive tool was not the purpose of this work. The aim was to
provide a framework that depicts actors, institutional environments, and interactions
that underlie predatory behaviors among TNCs and States. This should aid the
design of a global code of conduct for TNCs; a promising approach is to focus on
transparency and penalties mechanisms, and to foster capacity building in limited
access orders for increased resilience and boldness.
In this analytic framework, the configuration in which a TNC is the prey and a
social order the predator has not been considered. However, this case exists, espe-
cially in the situation where TNCs’ investments or revenues are coveted by gov-
ernment officials. This is also the case when local populations perceive the TNC only
as a provider of rents they can capture through violence. Furthermore, this work has
demonstrated that limited access orders are most likely subject to predation, but this
should not lead to the conclusion that predation does not exist in open access orders.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 85
In fact, as open access orders’ institutions and organizations are more sophisticated,
predation is likewise sophisticated. When predatory practices thrive, they may be
spectacular and their spillovers may impact the entire world, like the subprime crisis
in 2007/2008 and the Volkswagen scandal in 2016. However, as limited access
orders suffer most in terms of poverty, security, and other basic needs, predation is
likely to cause more vital damages in terms of human rights.
This framework could be enriched with the analysis of predatory or prey
potentials of other international actors such as intergovernmental organizations or
non-governmental organizations. The influence of these international players in the
international social order is significant, especially as in recent decades authority has
moved from States to international organizations, as noted by Strange (1996). This
framework would thus gain complexity with the consideration of the interplay
between several international actors.
Finally, it should not be inferred from this work that TNCs concentrate all evils
when operating in limited access orders. Their significant contribution to wealth
creation and technology transfer has been well documented. However, even though
host social orders must play a leading role in the protection of human rights, it is
obvious that in their legitimate quest of rents, responsible TNCs must remain vig-
ilant in their operations in institutionally weak social orders if they do not wish to
foster predation. A global code of conduct for TNCs should consider transparency
and dissuasive penalties as key drivers of responsible practices, and should target an
improvement of the capacity of host countries in the fight against predation.
References
Amnesty International. (2014). 30 Après la catastrophe de Bophal, ils continuent à demander
justice.
Bisin, A., & Verdier, T. (2001). The economics of cultural transmission and the dynamics of
preferences. Journal of Economic Theory, 97, 298–319 (2001).
David, E., & Lefèvre, G. (2015). Juger les Multinationales. Droits Humains Bafoués, Ressources
Naturelles Pillées, Impunité Organisée. Editions Mardaga—GRIP.
Diamond, J. (1997). Guns, germs, and steel. The fate of human societies. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company.
Dubresson, A., & Jaglin, S. (2002). La gouvernance urbaine en Afrique subsaharienne: pour une
géographie de la régulation. In F. Bart, J. Bonvallot & Pourtier R. (Eds.), Regards sur
l’Afrique, Historiens et Géographes (pp. 67–75). IRD. (Online) Available http://www.
documentation.ird.fr/hor/fdi:010029294. 04 Jan 2017.
Gilpin, R. (1987). The political economy of international relations. Princeton: Princeton
University Press.
Greif, A., & Tadelis, S. (2010). A theory of moral persistence: Crypto-morality and political
legitimacy. Journal of Comparative Economics, 38(3), 229–244.
Keohane, R. (1984). After hegemony: Cooperation and discord in the world political economy.
Princeton: Princeton University Press.
Keohane, R., & Nye, J. (2012). Power and interdependence, 4th Ed. Logman.
Knorr, K. (1975). The power of nations. The political economy of international relations. New
York: Basic Books Inc. Publishers.
86 H. Lado
http://www.documentation.ird.fr/hor/fdi:010029294
http://www.documentation.ird.fr/hor/fdi:010029294
Lado, H. (2016). Les responsabilités sociétales obligatoires et volontaires des entreprises. Revue
Française de Gestion, 42(260), 143–157.
Lang-Roth, C. (2013). ArcelorMittal: un accord social trouvé à Florange. France Bleu (30 May
2013). (Online) Available https://www.francebleu.fr/arcelormittal-un-accord-social-trouve-
florange-1369886400. 04 January 2017.
Le Floch-Prigent, L., & Decouty, E. (2001). L’affaire Elf, affaire d’Etat. Entretiens avec Eric
Decouty. Paris: Ed. Le Cherche Midi.
LeMonde. (2013). La CIA reconnaît son rôle dans le coup d’Etat en Iran en 1953. (Online) Available
http://www.lemonde.fr/ameriques/article/2013/08/19/la-cia-reconnait-avoir-renverse-le-premier-
ministre-iranien-en-1953_3463576_3222.html. 04 January 2017.
L’Humanité. (2012). Florange sera “le cauchemar du gouvernement”. (Online) Available http://
www.humanite.fr/social-eco/florange-sera-le-cauchemar-du-gouvernement-491101.
04 January 2017.
Mitchell, T. (2013). Carbon democracy. Le pouvoir politique à l’ère du pétrole. Ed. La
Découverte.
North, D., Wallis, J., & Weingast, B. (2009). Violence and social orders. A conceptual framework
for interpreting recorded human history. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
North, D., Wallis, J., Webb, S., & Weingast, B. (2013). In the shadow of violence: Politics,
economics and the problem of violence. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
NSA. (2013). CIA confirms role in 1953 Iran Coup. (Online) Available http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/
NSAEBB/NSAEBB435/. 04 January 2017.
Nurdin, G., & Djermoun, S. (2015). Les multinationales émergentes. Comment elles changent la
donne mondiale. L’Harmattan.
OECD. (2013). Addressing base erosion and profit shifting. Paris: OECD Publishing.
Ozawa, T. (2016). The evolution of the world economy. The ‘Flying-Geese’ theory of multinational
corporations and structural transformation. Cheltenham: Edward Elgard Publishing.
Pigou, A. C. (1932). The economics of welfare. London: Macmillan and Co.
Reich, R. (2011). Le Jour d’Après, Sans réduction des inégalités, Pas de sortie de crise. Vuibert.
Stopford, J. M., & Strange, S. (1991). Rival states, rival firms. Competition for world market
shares. Cambridge, NY: Cambridge University Press.
Strange, S. (1988). States and markets. Pinter Publishers.
Strange, S. (1996). The retreat of the state. The diffusion of power in the world economy.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Veblen, T. (1970). Théorie de la classe de loisir. Trad. de Louis Evrard (édition originale en
1890). Gallimard.
Hervé Lado holds a Ph.D. in economics from the University Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne and a
Master in Finance and Strategy from Sciences Po Paris (Institute of Political Studies). His thesis
was on the Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSR) of oil TNCs in Nigeria. Hervé served in the
French economic diplomacy network in Africa for several years, advising corporations for their
development in Africa. Recently, he was the Team Leader for social and environmental issues of a
major hydroelectric dam project in Cameroon (420 MW, €1bn) sponsored by the Government of
Cameroon, EDF and IFC. He is currently the Country Manager for Guinea of Natural Resource
Governance Institute (NRGI), providing technical assistance and capacity building to the
government and the civil society for a better governance of natural resources. Associate Researcher
in the Programme Companies and Development (CODEV/IRENE) at ESSEC Business School in
Paris, he has authored publications on the process of sustainable development in Africa, CSR and
predation, including a book on political and economic dynamics in the history of Nigeria.
Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational … 87
https://www.francebleu.fr/arcelormittal-un-accord-social-trouve-florange-1369886400
https://www.francebleu.fr/arcelormittal-un-accord-social-trouve-florange-1369886400
http://www.lemonde.fr/ameriques/article/2013/08/19/la-cia-reconnait-avoir-renverse-le-premier-ministre-iranien-en-1953_3463576_3222.html
http://www.lemonde.fr/ameriques/article/2013/08/19/la-cia-reconnait-avoir-renverse-le-premier-ministre-iranien-en-1953_3463576_3222.html
http://www.humanite.fr/social-eco/florange-sera-le-cauchemar-du-gouvernement-491101
http://www.humanite.fr/social-eco/florange-sera-le-cauchemar-du-gouvernement-491101
http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB435/
http://nsarchive.gwu.edu/NSAEBB/NSAEBB435/
	4 Behavioral Dynamics and Regulation of Transnational Corporations
	1 Introduction
	2 The International Social Order Enables Predation
	2.1 Institutions of the International Order Lack Sophistication
	2.2 Powerful Actors Dominate the International Order
	3 The Predatory Potential of a TNC
	3.1 Behavioral Adjustment in Different Social Orders
	3.2 Characteristics of the TNC and Its Home Social Order
	3.2.1 The Predatory Nature of Products and Services of the TNC
	3.2.2 The Economic Power of the TNC
	3.2.3 The Strategic Importance of the TNC for the Home Social Order
	3.2.4 The Power of the Home Social Order
	3.3 Analysis of the Predatory Potential of a TNC
	3.4 Example of Predatory Behaviors of TNCs
	4 The Prey Potential of a Social Order
	4.1 Power and Resilience of the Host Social Order
	4.1.1 Governance Axis—Innovation Axis
	4.1.2 Summary Diagrams of the Prey Potential of a Social Order
	4.2 Assessment of the Prey Potential of Some African Countries
	4.2.1 Governance: The Ibrahim Index of African Governance (IIAG)
	4.2.2 Innovation: The Global Innovation Index (GII)
	4.2.3 The Governance-Innovation Relationship for Africa
	5 The Risk of Predation
	6 Regulating TNCs Behavior Through SD and CSR
	6.1 Crypto-Morality
	6.2 TNCs’ Cost-Benefit Analysis of Predation
	7 Conclusion
	References