Healthchain: Secure EMRs Management and Trading in Distributed Healthcare Service System
7192 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 9, MAY 1, 2021
Healthchain: Secure EMRs Management and
Trading in Distributed Healthcare
Service System
Chaoyang Li, Student Member, IEEE, Mianxiong Dong , Member, IEEE, Jian Li ,
Gang Xu , Xiubo Chen , and Kaoru Ota , Member, IEEE
Abstract—Electronic medical records (EMRs) are the most
critical data in human health management. As in traditional cen-
tralized healthcare service systems (HSSs), user privacy security,
EMRs data leakage, tampering, and island are some significant
problems. However, blockchain is a promising technology to pro-
tect the privacy and realize cross-institutional data sharing for
solving these problems. In this article, a novel peer-to-peer EMRs
data management and trading system called healthchain has been
proposed based on consortium blockchain technology. Through
this distributed system, the patient can access their EMRs in
different institutions freely, and the EMRs can be traded among
different users conveniently. Then, to balance EMRs data sup-
ply and demand, we establish a Stackelberg pricing model to
evaluate EMRs data providers and consumers’ interactions. The
optimal unit price and data amounts can be found by applying
the backward induction method, and the maximizing benefits of
the participants can be obtained by achieving the Nash equilib-
rium in the proposed game. Moreover, security analysis shows the
healthchain can provide secure EMRs management and trading,
and the simulation results show that the proposed pricing model
can help the healthchain achieve social welfare maximization.
Index Terms—Cross-institutional data sharing, electronic med-
ical record (EMR), healthchain, social welfare maximization.
Manuscript received July 15, 2020; revised September 11, 2020 and
October 29, 2020; accepted November 12, 2020. Date of publication
November 17, 2020; date of current version April 23, 2021. This work
was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of
China under Grant 92046001 and Grant 61962009; in part by the Natural
Science Foundation of Beijing Municipality under Grant 4182006; in part
by the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities under
Grant 2019XD-A02; in part by JSPS KAKENHI under Grant JP19K20250,
Grant JP20F20080, and Grant JP20H04174; in part by the Leading Initiative
for Excellent Young Researchers, MEXT, Japan; in part by the Open
Research Project of the State Key Laboratory of Media Convergence
and Communication under Grant SKLMCC2020KF006; in part by the
China Scholarship Council under Grant 201906470024; and in part by
the BUPT Excellent Ph.D. Students Foundation under Grant CX2019227.
(Corresponding author: Mianxiong Dong.)
Chaoyang Li is with the Information Security Center, State Key Laboratory
of Networking and Switching Technology and the School of Computer
Science, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876,
China, and also with the Department of Sciences and Informatics, Muroran
Institute of Technology, Muroran 050-8585, Japan.
Mianxiong Dong and Kaoru Ota are with the Department of Sciences and
Informatics, Muroran Institution of Technology, Muroran 050-8585, Japan
(e-mail: mx.dong@csse.muroran-it.ac.jp).
Jian Li is with the School of Computer Science, Beijing University of Posts
and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China.
Gang Xu is with the School of Information Science and Technology, North
China University of Technology, Beijing 100144, China.
Xiubo Chen is with the Information Security Center, State Key Laboratory
of Networking and Switching Technology, Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JIOT.2020.3038721
I. INTRODUCTION
HEALTHCARE service system (HSS) acts as a more
important role in collecting and analyzing human health
condition based on the large quantity of electronic medical
records (EMRs). Depending on the historical EMRs, the doc-
tor can provide an accurate diagnosis, and the patient can
obtain a comprehensive treatment. In general, EMRs are stored
and managed in many independent HSSs, which controlled
by different medical institutions [1]. In general, the medi-
cal institutions are unwilling to share their data concerning
their benefits. As shown in Fig. 1, the left part shows the
current healthcare system, where the patients have limited
access permission of their EMRs, and the EMRs cannot be
freely transmitted among different medical institutions. The
right part shows the future healthcare system where the cross-
institutional sharing of EMRs is more convenient, as the
patients can freely access their EMRs when they go to the
doctor in another medical institution. Therefore, it is a great
challenge to design an open and shared HSS to improve the
ability of diagnosis and the quality of healthcare [2].
EMRs are the essential historical records of diagnosis and
treatment in human healthcare, and they usually contain the
patient’s condition, diagnosis procedure, medications, and oper-
ation situation [3]. This information can provide enormous bits
of help for the patient’s subsequent treatment and rehabilita-
tion, and they also can promote the development of the medical
treatment level and medical technology. However, the EMRs
also contain sensitive private information about the patients,
doctors, and medical institutions. There are existing many prob-
lems in traditional HSS, such as user privacy security, EMRs
data leakage, tampering, and island [4]. The centralized stor-
age and management form cannot secure them, even making
them vulnerable to many threats. For example, they are easily
tampered by the malicious man-made purpose or destroyed by
the natural disaster. Even worse, once criminals have stolen
sensitive information, it will significantly damage the patients
and medical institutions. Besides, the different data formats
make it difficult to share the EMRs between the independent
medical institution, and the sealed data in different professional
institutions have little contribution to the research on pathogeny
relatedness of different diseases.
When a patient wants to transfer his EMRs from one medi-
cal institution to another, the limitation of information content
2327-4662 c© 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2788-3451
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6237-2307
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1409-252X
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0178-6004
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3382-1652
LI et al.: HEALTHCHAIN: SECURE EMRs MANAGEMENT AND TRADING IN DISTRIBUTED HEALTHCARE SERVICE SYSTEM 7193
Fig. 1. Current and future healthcare system.
and recipient should be considered. As mentioned above, to
protect the patient and medical institution’s privacy, the EMRs
owner should sign a consent that stipulates the type of EMRs
data, the information of the recipient, the usage purpose, and
the period that the data can be accessed legally. Therefore, it
is tough to coordinate as the patient moves to another medical
institution, which cannot be determined in advance. The city,
region, and country where the medical institution is located
are usually different from the original one.
In order to break though the limitation of data sharing
in current healthcare system, it is urgent to seek a technol-
ogy to promote cooperation and establish deep mutual trust
between different medical institutions. Fortunately, an emerg-
ing technology called blockchain is a promising method to
manage and share the EMRs among different HSSs securely
and efficiently [5], [6]. Supporting by blockchain technology,
the HSS will significantly benefit the healthcare industry. The
distributed storage model can effectively weaken the mali-
cious behaviors from centralized medical institution and avoid
the EMRs data leakage by signal node storage failure. Then,
transaction’s the openness and verifiability can guarantee the
authenticity and accuracy of the EMRs and prevent the manip-
ulation and destruction of malicious third party. Moreover, the
anonymous transaction address form can strictly protect the
user privacy security without influencing the statistical prop-
erty of the EMRs data. However, the delay of transaction
confirmation in Bitcoin is low efficiency, which is not suitable
for the abundant EMRs sharing in HSS. Consequently, it is
severe to design a novel scheme for transaction confirmation
to improve the efficiency of the current blockchain-enabled
HSS.
This article first exploit a peer-to-peer EMRs sharing system
called healthchain based on the consortium blockchain tech-
nology [7]. In this distributed system, the patients serve as
the EMRs data creators who have the right to access their
EMRs in different medical institutions. The medical institu-
tions act as the authorized nodes to maintain the whole system.
Meanwhile, they are responsible for collecting EMRs data
resources and allocating them to satisfy the market demands.
The data consumers, such as the researchers, medical compa-
nies, and other organizations, can utilize the aggregated EMRs
data to research the medical drugs and technologies. Then, the
index of EMRs and the sharing process will be recorded into
the healthchain to be the immutable records, to establish a
lightweight public ledger. Moreover, we propose a Stackelberg
pricing game model between the EMRs data provider and
consumer, then present a data pricing strategy to balance the
EMRs data trading.
Following are three main contributions of this article.
1) Unified Healthchain: We propose a unified healthchain
based on consortium blockchain to store and manage
EMRs, providing distributed privacy preserving for users
and EMRs data.
2) Efficient EMRs Trading Model: We establish an effi-
cient resource trading model to realize EMRs cross-
institutional sharing and present a Stackelberg pricing
model to evaluate EMRs data providers and consumers’
interactions.
3) Effective Optimal Method: We apply the backward
induction method to solve the game model, which
can help achieve market equilibrium and social wel-
fare maximization. The simulation results also show this
healthchain is secure, and the game model is efficient.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. Some
related works have been given in Section II. The framework
of healthchain has been presented in Section III. Section IV
presents the EMRs resource trading model in healthchain.
Section V gives the performance evaluation and analysis of the
proposed model. Finally, conclusion is given in Section VI.
II. RELATE WORKS
We first present some introductions about the HSS in this
section. Next, some descriptions of blockchain technology
have been given. With the development of blockchain tech-
nology, some research about the blockchain-enabled HSS in
recent years has been presented.
A. Healthcare Service System
HSS is the platform for collecting and managing the EMRs.
Generally, the HSS is centralized, containing the public-key
generator (PKG), third-party auditor (TPA), and the cloud
storage server. The PKG generates the private key for the
system users. The TPA is responsible for auditing the health-
care data. With the explosive increase of the EMRs data, some
new methods based on the Internet-of-Things (IoT) technol-
ogy have been proposed to improve the system’s robustness
and security. Fabian et al. [8] have given a novel architec-
ture based on multiclouds, which can realize collaborative and
secure EMRs sharing in semitrusted cloud computing envi-
ronments. Yang et al. [9] proposed an IoT-based HSS for
healthcare big data storage and presented a novel twofold self-
adaptive access control system for EMRs sharing. However,
these IoT-based HSSs are centralized, which cannot satisfy the
increasing demand for security and efficiency.
As in these centralized systems, the medical institutions
control the whole system, which may easily cause data delet-
ing, tampering, and other problems, once the PKG or TPA
becomes malicious. EMRs contain sensitive information about
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
7194 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 9, MAY 1, 2021
the patients and medical institutions, such as name, ID num-
ber, telephone number, address, etc. Therefore, the centralized
cloud storage structure cannot provide full protection for
EMRs. The inevitable software bugs, hardware faults, and
human errors in the systems can easily lead to data corruption
and loss. Moreover, the integrity of the EMRs also is eas-
ily destroyed by the inevitable software/hardware failures and
human errors in the cloud. Besides, different medical insti-
tutions are loathing to share their data with privacy concerns
and competitive pressure [10]. While the consistency and inter-
operability of the different data types from different medical
institutions are also significant problems for data sharing [11].
B. Blockchain Technology
Blockchain technology is widely used for building a dis-
tributed consistent system in recent years, which was first
proposed to develop the cryptocurrency called Bitcoin by
Nakamoto in 2008 [12]. Unfamiliar users can trade with each
other through this system, and the trading records are saved
into blockchain ledger as the immutable records. In order to
achieve distributed consistency among unfamiliar users, there
exist some consensus algorithms, such as the Proof of Work
(PoW) [13], Proof of Stake (PoS) [14], and Delegated PoS
(DPoS) [15]. Meanwhile, the signature algorithms [16], [17]
are also needed to authenticate user legitimacy and protect
the privacy security of the user and transaction. Blockchain
is usually considered as a public, decentration, distribute, and
reliable hyperledger with high Byzantine fault tolerance [18],
and used in finance, cloud computing, IoT systems, and other
applications.
In general, the blockchain technology can be divided into
three categories: 1) public blockchain; 2) private blockchain;
and 3) consortium blockchain [7]. The public blockchain is
public with no access restrictions, and anyone can create trans-
actions with other users through the Internet. Bitcoin [12]
and Ethereum [19] are the most successful application cases
based on the public blockchain technology. In contrast, the pri-
vate blockchain is closed, which is generally used for keeping
accounts and controlled by the individual or private entity.
The consortium blockchain is relatively closed with limited
access permissions, which is more suitable for the same type
of company and organization to build a union ledger. However,
different from the public and private blockchain, it requires
preselecting some mining nodes to build new block and main-
tain the whole system. It has many advantages, such as better
control, fast trading, and data confidentiality. As long as most
mining nodes have confirmed, the new transaction can be
recorded, and even the historical record can be modified.
Besides, consortium blockchain equipped with PoS or DPoS
consistency algorithm is also more energy efficient compared
with the PoW-enabled Bitcoin system based on the public
blockchain. Ripple [20] is based on consortium blockchain,
which is proposed for cross-border payment service among
different financial institutions. Therefore, we apply the consor-
tium blockchain technology to construct a distributed platform
between different medical institutions to achieve secure and
efficient EMRs sharing.
C. Blockchain-Enabled Healthcare Service System
The HSS performs the storage and management of EMRs,
improving the medical efficiency and medicine level. However,
centralized organizations easily bring about the data leak-
age problem because of human error and hardware damage.
Moreover, the medical institutions are unwilling to share their
EMRs relating privacy concerns and competitive pressure.
Therefore, cross-institutional sharing of EMRs is a big chal-
lenge for current centralized HSS. Some blockchain-based
strategies in the last few years for HSS have been reviewed
in [21] and [22]. With the emergence of blockchain technol-
ogy, it is predictable to achieve that the patients can freely
access their EMRs in different institutions.
In recent years, some simple frameworks of blockchain-
enabled HSS have been proposed [5], [6], [23]–[25], [27], [28].
Peterson et al. [5] presented a proof of structural and seman-
tic interoperability algorithm to construct a blockchain-enabled
model for EMRs sharing. However, this consistency algorithm
is not practical for massive transaction processing in HSS.
Dubovitskaya et al. [23] proposed an EMRs sharing scheme
with the permission blockchain, which aims to improve the
consistency and interoperability of EMRs data types from
different medical institutions. Dagher et al. [29] presented a
blockchain-enabled framework for secure and efficient access
to EMRs by different users, while this scheme cannot support
fast trading based on the Ethereum. Xu et al. [25] proposed a
privacy-preserving scheme for large-scale health data, but they
do not focus on how to share and evaluate the EMRs trans-
mitting processes. Yazdinejad et al. [26] utilized blockchain
technology to establish a hospital network, which can help
patients accept decentralized authentication in different med-
ical institutions. These literature works give a significant
exploration for data sharing among different HSSs, and the
blockchain technology has served as a distributed ledger to
record the EMRs. However, most of these blockchain-enabled
HSSs have stayed in the form of conception and framework.
There is little research about implementing healthchain with
current HSS and the efficient transmission mechanism between
the patient, medical institution, and researcher. Moreover, pri-
vacy preserving of the user and the data security of EMRs are
also significant issues that should be considered.
III. UNIFIED HEALTHCHAIN FOR EMRS SHARING
In this section, we give a detailed description of the
healthchain. In this system, the patient creates and uploads his
EMRs, and he also can verify whether his EMRs are recorded
or not. Meanwhile, some different medical institutions serve
as the mining nodes to maintain the whole system. They are
responsible for collecting and verifying the EMRs, generating
and recording them into the public ledger. The transparent and
immutable data storage structures can make EMRs data more
safe and convincing.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: HEALTHCHAIN: SECURE EMRs MANAGEMENT AND TRADING IN DISTRIBUTED HEALTHCARE SERVICE SYSTEM 7195
Fig. 2. Framework of healthchain.
First, we present the framework of healthchain in
Section III-A. Then, we describe the unified healthchain for
EMRs sharing in Section III-B.
A. Framework of Healthchain
Different from traditional centralized HSSs, all the entities
are serving as the nodes to constitute the whole system in the
proposed healthchain. As shown in Fig. 2, the medical insti-
tutions’ union and some other necessary institutions together
compose the distributed EMRs sharing network. Meanwhile,
one public blockchain ledger has been maintained by medi-
cal nodes, and real EMRs are stored in the database that has
been managed by each medical institution. The general user
should first register as a legal user, then create and share his
EMR to the healthchain. In order to promote the execution
of the EMRs sharing process, we introduce the medical coin
for charging the process to balance the EMRs data supply and
demand.
Then, some main items in healthchain have been listed in
Table I. Moreover, three important parts: 1) medical records;
2) medical nodes; and 3) medical coin, which compose the
main framework of healthchain, are described as the following.
1) Medical Records: EMRs are the records of the patient’s
whole therapeutic process at the medical institution.
First, the patient sees a doctor and initializes a med-
ical record. Next, the doctor makes a diagnosis based
on the patient’s condition. Then, the patient receives
treatment according to the therapeutic schedule. More
importantly, the index of EMRs will be recorded in the
healthchain, but the real EMRs data are stored in the
medical database managed by each medical institution.
In this way, it can establish a lightweight public ledger
among the medical union. If the patient goes to another
medical institution, he can authorize the new doctor
to access his EMRs, which can be downloaded from
the index recorded in the medical database. Moreover,
healthchain can help integrate the diversified EMRs data,
TABLE I
MAIN TERMS IN HEALTHCHAIN
which can help the disease diagnosis and contribute to
the development of medical research, drug discovery,
and medical device manufacturing. In addition, as EMRs
are the patients’ property, they will obtain some medical
coins for rewards if they agree to share the EMRs to the
healthchain.
2) Medical Node: This healthchain contains many users
who serve as medical nodes with different functions. All
the medical nodes should register as the legal users who
can take part in the healthchain. The patients serve as the
general nodes in healthchain who create the EMRs and
share them with the system. The doctors serve as a par-
ticipant for the EMRs creating who have rights to view
the EMRs authorized by the patient, and they also can
access other EMRs by obtaining the users’ authorization.
As the former described that the medical institutions act
as the system mining nodes, they play essential roles to
verify and record the EMRs. The medical institutions
are responsible for sharing the collected EMRs into the
whole healthchain, and they are also rewarded with the
medical coins. The medical institution acts as the inter-
mediary that has responsibility to guarantee the security
of users’ privacy and EMRs data, serve as the merchant
to earn the income from data consumer, and pay the
reward for the data creator. Meanwhile, the audit center,
insurance center, and bank are essential for guarantee-
ing the EMRs to guarantee their legality. These entities
also serve as the system nodes to participate in the
management of EMRs in healthchain. Audit, insurance
reimbursement, and fund settlement operations are also
recorded in the public blockchain ledger. Moreover, the
researcher and other organizations which want to use
the EMRs data for research need to register as the legal
nodes.
3) Medical Coin: When the EMRs are sharing between the
different nodes, the remuneration is needed. In order to
distinguish the general medical fee, we introduce a token
called medical coin for the data exchange of EMRs.
The MERs creators will be rewarded with some medical
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
7196 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 9, MAY 1, 2021
coins to share their data, and the consumers of EMRs
data need to pay some medical coins. This medical coin
has been used to evaluate the EMRs sharing behaviors
and balance the EMRs resource supply and demand rela-
tionship in the proposed healthchain. Moreover, these
medical coins will be stored in the wallet, and they
can be used to deduct part of the total medical fee
with proper transformational relation. It can motivate
the interagency of sharing the EMRs and guarantee the
rights and interests of the original EMRs creator.
It is worth noting that one piece of EMR contains the
patient’s condition and the doctor’s diagnose. So they should
hide and protect the sensitive information of each other when
uploading their EMRs data. Meanwhile, the wallet is an essen-
tial part of medical nodes to perform the EMRs sharing
process. Just as that in Bitcoin system, the user will generate
many wallets addresses for different transactions. It can store
the property of medical nodes and protect their privacy secu-
rity against the statistical attack. Moreover, the account center
and audit center are also needed to manage medical nodes
accounts and audit the trade authenticity in the healthchain,
respectively. Besides, the medical institution has its medical
database to store the real EMRs data and public ledger of the
healthchain.
B. Secure EMRs Sharing in Healthchain
Supporting by the consortium blockchain technology, we
exploit healthchain for EMRs sharing among different med-
ical institutions. However, different from Bitcoin that all the
nodes compete for constructing new blocks with high costs,
the proposed healthchain selects some medical institutions as
the mining nodes to realize system consistency with moderate
costs. While these preselected mining nodes collect and share
their local EMRs to maintain the whole system. Moreover, the
behaviors for sharing and using EMRs data will be evaluated
by the medical coins, which can make a strict balance and
stability for system implementation.
Then, the details about the critical operations of the
healthchain have been presented as follows.
1) System Initialization: In the healthchain, all nodes
should be registered as legal users before their operations
on EMRs data. As this healthchain system contacts the bank
system, insurance system, and other government organizations,
the users must register with their real identity IDi from the
account center. They will then get their public keys PKi,
private keys SKi, and certificates Certi, which are used for
identity authentication and transaction signature. Then, the
medical nodes can derive a set of wallet addresses WIDi,k
based on the public and private keys, and the mapping list
{IDi, PKi, SKi, Certi, WIDi,k} will be stored in the account cen-
ter. Here, it also needs to generate enough wallet addresses
for each transaction record like Bitcoin, preventing statis-
tical attacks for deducing users’ private keys and patients’
condition.
2) EMRs Transmitting Among Different Nodes: In the
healthchain, the EMRs data can be transmitted conveniently.
Fig. 3. Secure EMRs sharing in healthchain.
As shown in Fig. 3, the EMRs data can conveniently trans-
mit among different medical institutions. As the patient, he
has full rights of his EMR, and he can obtain diagnosis and
treatment in different medical institutions by authorizing dif-
ferent doctors to view his historical EMRs. Like the doctor,
he can provide more professional and accurate treatments with
integrated and periodic EMRs data. Meanwhile, the researcher
can improve medical technology and medical level and pro-
vide disease prediction and prevention. Besides, the full line
shows that the patient and doctor can freely access their EMRs
data, while the dotted line shows that other actions that want
to use EMRs data for research will have some limitations and
rewards. All the sharing and transmitting behaviors will be
recorded into a series of transactions and uploaded into the
healthchain.
3) Payments Using Medical Coins: With the MERs data
transferring in the network of healthchain, the medical coin
acts as an important role to reward the sharing behavior and
charge the employing behavior. As the patient and the doctor
serve as the creator for the EMRs data, they will be rewarded
with some medical coins for their sharing behaviors. Here, the
rewards can be evaluated by the prospective value of EMRs
data, and the corresponding medical coins will be sent to their
wallets. On the other hand, someone who wants to use the
EMRs data will be charged. As the researcher wants to take
EMRs for scientific research, the medicine company wants
to utilize them for drug development, and other organizations
also want to employ them with lawful purposes. These cross-
institutional sharing behaviors should be paid to protect the
benefits of the EMRs creator. Therefore, the medical coin can
protect the benefits of medical nodes and maintain the balance
and stability of the healthchain system.
4) Building Blocks in Healthchain: During a certain period,
the transaction records of EMRs sharing and employing are
verified and collected into a temporary block by the min-
ing medical institutions. The medical node who obtains the
right to establish this block will perform the consistency
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: HEALTHCHAIN: SECURE EMRs MANAGEMENT AND TRADING IN DISTRIBUTED HEALTHCARE SERVICE SYSTEM 7197
Fig. 4. Block data confirming processes.
validation process. After passing the validation, this block
will be attached to the formal healthchain. Then, this med-
ical institution will be rewarded with some medical coins.
Here, when the creator of this block has been confirmed, all
the medical institutions will try to compete for the rights of
building the next new block. As the healthchain is a relatively
closed network, we adopt the PoS to determine the leader for
this period. Different from the resource-consuming consensus
algorithm called PoW in Bitcoin, PoS is more efficient and
resource saving for EMRs sharing among different HSSs.
5) Implementing Consistency Validation Process: In this
healthchain, we apply DPoS as the consistency algorithm,
which has short block time and high-efficiency properties.
When one medical institution obtains the rights for build-
ing a new block, it will implement the consistency validation
process among the whole healthchain network. As shown in
Fig. 4, the verification processes for different medical institu-
tions are shown in different colors. The leader first broadcasts
block data and its DPoS certificate to other authorized medical
institutions for audit and verification. Next, the medical nodes
verify the received block data and broadcast the results with
their signatures to each other for mutual verification. Then,
they compare the received results with their results and feed-
back the final results to the leader. In the end, the leader
checks the signed audit results, comparison results, and the
received records of these results. If there are some different
opinions on the block data, the leader should check and ana-
lyze another audit problem. When the block data pass the audit
and verification, the leader will attach these block data with his
signature on the main chain of healthchain and broadcast them
to the whole network, as shown with the green line in Fig. 4.
Until now, the transaction has been done, and it will become
an immutable record stored in the blockchain ledger. After
that, this leader can obtain some medical coins as rewards for
building a new block, and then continue to work for the next
block.
IV. EMRS RESOURCE TRADING IN HEALTHCHAIN
The healthchain can provide a distributed platform for
EMRs sharing among different medical institutions and users.
However, how to balance data supply and demand over some
time, and optimize the benefits of the data creator and con-
sumer. In this section, we present a secure EMRs resource
trading model for cross-institutional data sharing. A pricing
strategic game has been proposed, which can help the trad-
ing participants obtain the optimal data pricing and amount.
Meanwhile, the social welfare maximization and market equi-
librium can be obtained by achieving the Nash equilibrium in
the proposed game. The following are detailed description of
the pricing strategic game.
A. Entities in the Pricing Strategic Game
In this article, we take an economic strategy game called
Stackelberg game to model this relationship between EMRs
data providers and consumers [30]. Because the signal EMR
cannot develop conspicuous value, we take the medical institu-
tions as the EMRs data providers to perform data trading with
the data consumers. As in the proposed healthchain system,
the EMRs data provider serves as the “leader” that performs
decision first, while the data consumers act as the “followers”
who perform decision afterward.
First, we take one medical institution as the leader.
The leader first sets the unit data price strategy {λ =
[λi]i∈N : λmin ≤ λi ≤ λmax}, where λi is the price for
ith (i ∈ {1, 2, . . . ,N }) data consumer, and λmin(λmax) is the
minimum(maximum) price. Here, the minimum price λmin is
the lowest benefits guarantee for every real EMRs creators.
Therefore, by deducting the additional costs γ that contain
the operating and maintenance costs, the expected rewards of
this medical institution can be expressed as
RL = λidi − γ di (1)
where di is the data resource demand of the ith data consumer.
The followers are the data consumer, such as the researcher,
medical company, and other organizations who want to use the
MERs data for research. They decide their demand amounts
following the actions of leader. There are usually N data con-
sumers who will compete with each other to purchase the
medical data resource. By deducting the additional costs ci that
contain the operating and maintenance costs, the satisfaction
function of the ith data consumer is described as follows:
Ssat = αiln(di − dmin + ci) (2)
where dmin is the minimum demand amounts of the ith
consumer, and αi is the predefined nonzero positive factor.
As the costs of each data that the ith consumer paid for
EMRs are λidi. Therefore, the utility function of this data
consumer can be expressed as
RF = Ssat − λidi. (3)
According to the above pricing strategy, the EMRs data
provider and consumers will perform a sequential decision-
making process until reaching the final data price and amounts.
The data provider first sets his price, and the data consumers
then set their demand amounts depending on the pricing strat-
egy. Next, the data provider tries to maximize his utilities while
the data consumers want to minimize their costs. Therefore,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
7198 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 9, MAY 1, 2021
the optimization problems of the data provider and consumers
can be formulated into two problems A and B, respectively,
which are shown as follows:
A: max
λi
∑
i∈N
RL(λi|di)
s.t. λmin ≤ λi ≤ λmax, λmin ≥ γ ∀i ∈ N (4)
B: max
di
RF (di|λi)
s.t. αi ≥ 0, di ≥ dmin > 0 ∀i ∈ N . (5)
Furthermore, assume there are t ∈ {1, 2, . . . , T } medical
institutions that act as the EMRs data collectors and traders in
the healthchain network. Meanwhile, by serving as the system
maintainer, they want to make market equilibrium for the
whole system and try to maximize the social welfare. The
medical institutions allocate the EMRs data to the data con-
sumers, and pay for the original data creators’ rewards. Then,
the social welfare maximization problem of the healthchain
can be formulated as the following optimization problem C:
C : max
λi,di
{
∑
t∈T
RL +
∑
i∈N
RF
}
s.t.
⎧
⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎩
λmin ≤ λi ≤ λmax, ∀i ∈ N
di ≥ dmin, ∀i ∈ N
αi ≥ 0, ∀i ∈ N
c > 0.
(6)
In addition, we mainly consider the balance between EMRs
data supply and demand in a period that may come from many
medical institutions. The proposed pricing strategic game is
executing dynamically with the time. The data supply and
demand in the last period have decided the unit data price in
the current period. Whatever some medical institutions partic-
ipate in or leave from the system influence the unit data price
in the current period. Therefore, it can always achieve the data
balance in the proposed system. Then, the EMRs data are the
reusable resources so that the data supply will be increased
with the newly shared EMRs data. It will not influence the unit
data price until it extends the time limit or has no practical
value. Moreover, in the proposed healthchain, the EMRs data
have only a server address for storage and inalterable trans-
action record for sharing. It can also efficiently prevent the
double sharing operations from some malicious user. Hence,
the shared EMRs data cannot be shared for another time.
B. Optimal Price Analysis
As the formerly described problems A and B, the maximize
rewards of the leader and followers can be achieved when
the proposed Stackelberg game reaches Nash equilibrium [31].
The EMRs data provider and consumers will be motivated
by this principle to achieve their respective optimal rewards.
Therefore, the Nash equilibrium between problems A and B
can be described as the following definition.
Definition 1: The point (λ∗, d∗) is the Nash equilibrium
point if the following condition satisfied, where λ∗ represents
the optimal unit price of resource data, and d∗ represents the
data demand of the consumer
{
∂RL(λ∗, d∗) ≥ ∂RL(λi, d∗)
∂RF (λ∗, d∗) ≥ ∂RF (λ∗, di).
(7)
Here, we apply the backward induction method to solve
the above Nash equilibrium problem [32]. First, we compute
the optimal data demand amounts of the ith data consumer.
Concerning resource demand di, the one- and second-order
derivatives of its utility function RF are shown as follows:
∂RF
∂di
= αi
di − dmin + ci
− λi (8)
∂2RF
∂d2
i
= − αi
(di − dmin + ci)2
< 0. (9)
Therefore, we can derive that RF is a strictly concave func-
tion from (9). Meanwhile, the optimal data demand d∗ can be
generated by solving ∂RF/∂di = 0
d∗
i = αi
λi
+ dmin − ci. (10)
Second, we compute the optimal unit price of the data
resource. We substitute (10) to (1), and the reward function
RL of data provider has been transformed as follows:
RL = (dmin − ci)λi − γαi
λi
− γ (dmin − ci) + αi. (11)
Then, we differentiate the reward function RL with respect
to λi, and the one- and second-order derivatives of (11) are
shown as follows:
∂RL
∂λi
= γαi
λ2
i
+ dmin − ci (12)
∂2RL
∂λ2
i
= −2γαi
λ3
i
< 0. (13)
When dmin < ci, we have limλi→0RL = −∞ and
limλi→+∞RL = −∞. Meanwhile, we can derive
⎧
⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎩
∂RL
∂λi
> 0, if 0 < λi <
√
γαi
ci − dmin
∂RL
∂λi
< 0, if λi >
√
γαi
ci − dmin
.
(14)
Therefore, the trend of the reward function RL increases
first and then decreases. So it is strictly concave, and the
optimal unit price of the data resource can be achieved when
∂RL/∂λi = 0
λ∗ =
√
γαi
ci − dmin
. (15)
When dmin > ci, λi < 0. However, this situation is not
practical.
In the proposed Stackelberg game, the medical institution
serves as the data distributor to communicate with every
data consumer, and the Nash equilibrium point between the
data providers and consumers can be obtained by performing
Algorithm 1.
Theorem 1: The healthchain can maximize social welfare
when the Nash equilibrium has been realized in the proposed
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: HEALTHCHAIN: SECURE EMRs MANAGEMENT AND TRADING IN DISTRIBUTED HEALTHCARE SERVICE SYSTEM 7199
Algorithm 1 Optimal EMRs Data Pricing Algorithm
Initialize: R∗
L = 0, R∗
F = 0, λ∗
i = 0, d∗
i = 0
1: for Each data consumer i ∈ N do
2: for The unit price λi from λmax to λmin do
3: if dmin < ci then
4: λ∗
i = 0, d∗
i = 0
5: Break
6: end if
7: The data consumer i adjusts its demand amounts di
depending on di = αi/λi + dmin − ci.
8: The data consumer i adjusts its utilities depending on
RF = αiln(di − dmin + ci) − λidi.
9: The data provider adjusts its rewards depending on
RL = λidi − γidi.
10: if RL ≥ R∗
L then
11: The data provider records the optimal unit price
and reward R∗
L = RL, R∗
F = RF , λ∗
i = λi, d∗
i = di.
12: end if
13: if RL ≤ R∗
L then
14: Break
15: end if
16: end for
17: end for
18: The Stackelberg game achieves Nash equilibrium (λ∗
i , d∗
i ).
Stackelberg game between the EMRs data provider and con-
sumers.
Proof: The social welfare maximization problem of
the healthchain can be equivalent to two optimal problems:
1) problem A of the expected rewards for the medical institu-
tions and 2) problem B of the utilities for the data consumers.
From (9), the utility RF of data consumer is strictly concave
with relating to demand amount di. Meanwhile, from (13),
the expected reward RL of the medical institution is also
strictly concave with relate to unit data price λi. Therefore,
the medical institution can find an optimal unit price λ∗
i
for the data resource, while the data consumers also choose
their unique data amounts d∗
i . Here, (λ∗
i , d∗
i ) is the Nash
equilibrium point for the proposed Stackelberg game in the
healthchain. Therefore, the medical institution and data con-
sumers can obtain optimal benefits when the Nash equilibrium
point has been achieved. Moreover, healthchain can realize
social welfare maximization.
V. SECURITY ANALYSIS AND SIMULATIONS
Now, we give the security analysis of the proposed
healthchain and perform the EMRs data sharing scheme.
A. Security Analysis of the Healthchain
Compared with traditional centralized HSS, this healthchain
changes the centralized pattern into the distributed pattern, and
helps the patients freely access their own EMRs in different
medical institutions. Then, compared with the Bitcoin system,
the transaction processes can be more efficient with the con-
sensus algorithm of PoS. Moreover, the consortium blockchain
TABLE II
SIMULATION PARAMETERS
helps construct an openness and shared EMRs exchanging
platform and improves the data security and protects the users’
privacy security.
1) Privacy Preserving: The user’s registration and data
trading precesses are securely stored as the transaction
in the healthchain. As the transaction structured with
the counterparty’s addresses, the adversary cannot obtain
any user’s privacy. Moreover, the user creates a new
address for the next transaction to prevent the statistical
attacks.
2) Decentration Advantage: The distributed storage form
provides strong robustness against the single node fail-
ure and centralized authoritarian control. Moreover, it
can improve data security and promote the data cross-
institutional sharing process.
3) Data Nontampering: Once the data have been recorded
in healthchain, they will become the immutable records.
Then, no one can tamper them with the immeasurable
computation burden and resource consumption.
4) No Double Spending: The medical coin is signed with
the owner’s private digital signature, and a chronologi-
cal history use of medical coin is publicly recorded in
the healthchain. Therefore, there impossibly exists the
double spending.
5) Energy Saving: The medical institutions compose an
alliance based on the consortium blockchain technology,
and they apply the PoS to achieve system consen-
sus, which can effectively save the computing resource
compared with the PoW-based Bitcoin system.
6) Rights Protection: This healthchain can help the patients
take control over their EMRs. They can access them
wherever they go to see doctors, and the rewards of
EMRs sharing also can ease the burden for treatment
and medicine fees.
B. Numerical Results
Before the performance of the EMRs data sharing scheme,
some necessary parameters are shown in Table II. To describe
different pricing strategies, we introduce N = 10 data con-
sumers with one data provider into this simulation.
First, we analyze the performance of the healthchain. In the
PoW-enabled Bitcoin system, one new block needs 10 min to
be built, and only seven transactions can be processed in 1 s.
In the PoS-enabled Ethereum system, the transaction process-
ing peaked at 15 transactions per second. However, it cannot
satisfy the demand for massive transactions. In the proposed
healthchain, some medical institutions have been elected as
the mining nodes by the PoS consistency algorithm. PoS can
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
7200 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 9, MAY 1, 2021
Fig. 5. Variation trend of the data price and amount.
support the fast and massive trading for the EMRs transmitting
among different medical institutions and users.
Then, we evaluate the proposed optimal pricing algorithm.
The variation trends of the EMRs data price and demand
amounts for one data consumer are shown in Fig. 5. The EMRs
data amount of the ith consumer will be decreased with the
increase of the data price. When the unit data price increases
from the minimum price of λmin
i = 10 to the maximum price
of λmax
i = 1000, the data consumer adjusts its demand amount
to achieve the optimal utility. On the contrary, if the unit data
price depreciates, they will increase the data amount. Both the
data provider and consumers want to obtain optimal benefits,
and the data price and demand amount influence the Nash
equilibrium point. The optimal data price and demand amount
are close to the maximum data price and minimum demand
amount, respectively. Therefore, the Nash equilibrium point
is close to the maximum data price and minimum demand
amount.
In the following, the benefits of the data provider and con-
sumer are changing according to the variation trend of the
data price and amount, which are shown in Fig. 6. However,
the data provider’s expected rewards and the data consumer’s
optimal benefits are also constrained to the maximum data
price and minimum demand amount, respectively. Therefore,
along with the increasing of data price, the data consumer’s
optimal utility will tend to be stable. As the EMRs data is the
reusable resource, the data provider’s reward will increase with
the usage counter. Here, we consider the transaction reward for
one kind of EMRs data. The data provider’s reward will tend
to maximum by reaching the maximum data price unless there
are new users who attended to buy this kind of EMRs data.
Moreover, the total amount represents the social welfare in
the healthchain. When the data provider and consumer have
obtained their optimal benefits, the healthchain can achieve
social welfare maximization.
In addition, the value of αi has an influence on the optimal
utility of consumers, and the variation trend of optimal util-
ity for different data consumers with different αi’s value has
shown in Fig. 7. As the data consumer’s utility function is
decided by the transaction amount di, αi is also the vari-
able factor that can significantly influence the final utility.
Fig. 6. Optimal benefits and social welfare.
Fig. 7. Optimal utility of data consumers with different αi.
Generally, the real value of αi is influenced by the data amount,
demand amount, and consumer amount. Hence, it should be
preset according to the real scenario.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this article, a unified healthchain system has been
proposed for EMRs sharing among various medical institu-
tions. We take consortium blockchain technology to establish
a more secure and energy-saving platform. Then, we intro-
duce a token called medical coin in healthchain to sufficiently
perform the EMRs data sharing trades. In the data sharing
scenario, we construct a Stackelberg game between the med-
ical institution and consumers, which helps them achieve the
optimal unit resource price and data amount. Meanwhile, they
can obtain each optimal benefit, and the healthchain also can
achieve social welfare maximization. Moreover, we analyze
the system security and perform the simulation for the EMRs
data sharing scheme. Security analysis shows that the medi-
cal coin can well help to perform the EMRs data trading, and
the proposed healthchain can well protect the EMRs data and
patient’s privacy.
Besides, this healthchain can make full use of the MERs,
which can create more benefits for patients to maximize social
welfare and provide the unalterable evidence for medical con-
flicts. However, in future works, we will discuss how to
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: HEALTHCHAIN: SECURE EMRs MANAGEMENT AND TRADING IN DISTRIBUTED HEALTHCARE SERVICE SYSTEM 7201
establish a practical real-time EMRs data exchanging system
and perform our proposed pricing strategic model, how the
medical coin acts as the value exchange weights, and how to
allocate and optimize the EMRs data sharing process for the
situation with many medical institution participants. With the
increase of the health detection devices, some burning ques-
tions should still be considered, such as privacy preserving
among edge network, fine-grained access control during EMRs
sharing process, and system security against quantum attacks.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Sun and Y. Fang, “Cross-domain data sharing in distributed electronic
health record systems,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 21,
no. 6, pp. 754–764, Jun. 2010.
[2] J. Vest and L. Gamm, “Health information exchange: Persistent chal-
lenges and new strategies,” J. Amer. Med. Informat. Assoc., vol. 17,
no. 3, pp. 288–294, 2010.
[3] R. Hillestad et al., “Can electronic medical record systems transform
health care? Potential health benefits, savings, and costs,” Health Affairs,
vol. 24, no. 5, pp. 1103–1117, 2005.
[4] K. Hossein, M. Esmaeili, T. Dargahi, and A. Khonsari, “Blockchain-
based privacy-preserving healthcare architecture,” in Proc. IEEE Can.
Conf. Elect. Comput. Engi. (CCECE), Edmonton, AB, Canada, 2019,
pp. 1–4.
[5] K. Peterson, R. Deeduvanu, P. Kanjamala, and K. Boles, “A blockchain-
based approach to health information exchange networks,” in Proc. NIST
Workshop Blockchain Healthcare, vol. 1, 2016, pp. 1–10.
[6] M. Mettler, “Blockchain technology in healthcare: The revolution starts
here,” in Proc. IEEE 18th Int. Conf. e-Health Netw. Appl. Serv.
(Healthcom), 2016, pp. 1–3.
[7] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “Blockchain chal-
lenges and opportunities: A survey,” Int. J. Web Grid Serv., vol. 14,
no. 4, pp. 352–375, 2018.
[8] B. Fabian, T. Ermakova, and P. Junghanns, “Collaborative and
secure sharing of healthcare data in multi-clouds,” Inf. Syst., vol. 48,
pp. 132–150, Mar. 2015.
[9] Y. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Guo, X. Liu, and V. Chang, “Privacy-preserving
smart IoT-based healthcare big data storage and self-adaptive access
control system,” Inf. Sci., vol. 479, pp. 567–592, Apr. 2019.
[10] Y. Ge, D. Ahn, B. Unde, H. Gage, and J. Carr, “Patient-controlled shar-
ing of medical imaging data across unaffiliated healthcare organizations,”
J. Amer. Med. Informat. Assoc., vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 157–163, 2013.
[11] W. Gordon and C. Catalini, “Blockchain technology for healthcare:
Facilitating the transition to patient-driven interoperability,” Comput.
Struct. Biotechnol. J., vol. 16, pp. 224–230, Jan. 2018.
[12] S. Nakamoto. (2008). Bitcoin: A Peer-To-Peer Electronic Cash System.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[13] A. Gervais, G. Karame, K. Wust, V. Glykantzis, H. Ritzdorf, and
S. Capkun, “On the security and performance of proof of work
blockchains,” in Proc. ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun. Security,
2016, pp. 3–16.
[14] S. King and S. Nadal, “Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with proof-
of-stake,” Self-Published Paper, vol. 19, pp. 1–6, Aug. 2012.
[15] D. Larimer, “Delegated proof-of-stake,” Bitshare, Murska Sobota,
Slovenia, White Paper, 2014.
[16] D. Johnson, A. Menezes, and S. Vanstone, “The elliptic curve digi-
tal signature algorithm (ECDSA),” Int. J. Inf. Security, vol. 1, no. 1,
pp. 36–63, 2001.
[17] C. Li, Y. Tian, X. Chen, and J. Li, “An efficient anti-quantum
lattice-based blind signature for blockchain-enabled systems,” Inf. Sci.,
vol. 546, pp. 253–264, Aug. 2020.
[18] C. Miguel and B. Liskov, “Practical Byzantine fault tolerance,” in
Proc. Symp. Oper. Syst. Design Implement., vol. 99, 1999, pp. 173–186.
[Online]. Available: https://www.usenix.org/legacy /events/osdi99/full_
papers/castro/castro_html/castro.html
[19] G. Wood, “Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction
ledger,” Ethereum Project, Zug, Switzerland, Yellow Paper, 2014.
[20] F. Armknecht, G. Karame, A. Mandal, F. Youssef, and E. Zenner,
“Ripple: Overview and outlook,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Trust Trustworthy
Comput., 2015, pp. 163–180.
[21] E. Aguiar, B. Faical, B. Krishnamachari, and J. Ueyama, “A survey
of blockchain-based strategies for healthcare,” ACM Comput. Surveys,
vol. 53, no. 2, pp. 1–27, 2020.
[22] P. Zhang and M. Boulos, “Blockchain solutions for healthcare,” in
Precision Medicine for Investigators, Practitioners and Providers.
San Diego, CA, USA: Academic Press, 2020, pp. 519–524.
[23] A. Dubovitskaya, Z. Xu, S. Ryu, M. Schumacher, and F. Wang,
“Secure and trustable electronic medical records sharing using
blockchain,” Proc. AMIA Annu. Symp., vol. 2017, Apr. 2018, pp. 650–
659. [Online]. Available: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/
PMC5977675/citedby/
[24] A. Azaria, A. Ekblaw, T. Vieira, and A. Lippman, “MedRec: Using
blockchain for medical data access and permission management,” in
Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Open Big Data (OBD), Vienna, Austria, Aug. 2016,
pp. 25–30.
[25] J. Xu et al., “Healthchain: A blockchain-based privacy preserving
scheme for large-scale health data,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6,
no. 5, pp. 8770–8781, Oct. 2019.
[26] A. Yazdinejad, G. Srivastava, R. Parizi, A. Dehghantanha, and
M. Aledhari, “Decentralized authentication of distributed patients in hos-
pital networks using blockchain,” IEEE J. Biomed. Health Informat.,
vol. 24, no. 8, pp. 2146–2156, Aug. 2020.
[27] N. Witchey, “Healthcare transaction validation via blockchain proof-of-
work, systems and methods,” U.S. Patent US20 150 332 283 A1, 2019.
[28] L. Chen, W. Lee, C. Chang, K. Choo, and N. Zhang, “Blockchain based
searchable encryption for electronic health record sharing,” Futer Gener.
Comput. Syst., vol. 95, pp. 420–429, Jun. 2019.
[29] G. Dagher, J. Mohler, M. Milojkovic, and P. Marella, “Ancile: Privacy-
preserving framework for access control and interoperability of elec-
tronic health records using blockchain technology,” Sustain. Cities Soc.,
vol. 39, pp. 283–297, May 2018.
[30] W. Huang, W. Chen, and H. Poor, “Request delay-based pricing for
proactive caching: A Stackelberg game approach,” IEEE Trans. Wireless
Commun., vol. 18, no. 16, pp. 2903–2918, Jun. 2019.
[31] D. Niyato and E. Hossain, “Competitive pricing for spectrum sharing
in cognitive radio networks: Dynamic game, inefficiency of nash equi-
librium, and collusion,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 26, no. 1,
pp. 192–202, Jan. 2008.
[32] S. Maharjan, Q. Zhu, Y. Zhang, S. Gjessing, and T. Basar, “Dependable
demand response management in the smart grid: A Stackelberg
game approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 120–132,
Mar. 2013.
Chaoyang Li (Student Member, IEEE) received the
M.S. degree from Zhengzhou University of Light
Industry, Zhengzhou, China, in 2017. He is cur-
rently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with the Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications,
Beijing, China.
He is a visiting student with the ENeS Lab,
Muroran Institution of Technology, Muroran,
Japan, supported by the China Scholarship Council
Program from October 2019 to September 2020.
His research interests include information security,
cryptography, and blockchain.
Mianxiong Dong (Member, IEEE) received the
B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in computer science
and engineering from the University of Aizu,
Aizuwakamatsu, Japan, in 2006, 2008, and 2013,
respectively.
He is the youngest ever Vice President and a
Professor with Muroran Institute of Technology,
Muroran, Japan. He was a JSPS Research Fellow
with the School of Computer Science and
Engineering, University of Aizu and was a Visiting
Scholar with the BBCR Group, University of
Waterloo, Waterloo, ON, Canada, supported by the JSPS Excellent Young
Researcher Overseas Visit Program from April 2010 to August 2011. He
was selected as a Foreigner Research Fellow (a total of three recipients all
over Japan) with NEC C&C Foundation, Tokyo, Japan, in 2011.
Dr. Dong is a recipient of the IEEE TCSC Early Career Award 2016, the
IEEE SCSTC Outstanding Young Researcher Award in 2017, the 12th IEEE
ComSoc Asia–Pacific Young Researcher Award in 2017, the Funai Research
Award 2018, and the NISTEP Researcher 2018 (one of only 11 people in
Japan) in recognition of significant contributions in science and technology.
He is Clarivate Analytics Highly Cited Researcher (Web of Science) in 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
7202 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 9, MAY 1, 2021
Jian Li received the Ph.D. degree from Beijing
Institute of Technology, Beijing, China, in 2005.
He is currently a Professor with the School of
Computer Science, Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Beijing. His current research
interests include information security and quantum
cryptography.
Gang Xu received the Ph.D. degree in software
engineering from the Beijing University of Posts and
Telecommunications, Beijing, China, in 2019.
Since 2015, he has been a visiting Ph.D. stu-
dent with the Department of Computer Science,
University of Calgary, Calgary, AB, Canada. He is
currently a Lecturer with the School of Information
Science and Technology, North China University of
Technology, Beijing. His current research interests
include quantum cryptography, quantum network
coding, and blockchain.
Xiubo Chen received the Ph.D. degree from Beijing
University of Posts and Telecommunications,
Beijing, China, in 2009.
She is currently an Associate Professor with the
School of Cyberspace Security, Beijing University
of Posts and Telecommunications. Her research
interests include cryptography, information security,
quantum network coding, and quantum private
communication.
Kaoru Ota (Member, IEEE) was born in Aizu-
Wakamatsu, Japan. She received the B.S. and Ph.D.
degrees in computer science and engineering from
the University of Aizu, Aizuwakamatsu, Japan, in
2006 and 2012, respectively, and the M.S. degree in
computer science from Oklahoma State University,
Stillwater, OK, USA, in 2008.
She is currently an Associate Professor and the
Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and
Technology Excellent Young Researcher with the
Department of Sciences and Informatics, Muroran
Institute of Technology, Muroran, Japan. From March 2010 to March 2011,
she was a Visiting Scholar with the University of Waterloo, Waterloo, ON,
Canada. She was a Japan Society of the Promotion of Science Research Fellow
with Tohoku University, Sendai, Japan, from April 2012 to April 2013.
Dr. Ota is a recipient of the IEEE TCSC Early Career Award 2017, the
13th IEEE ComSoc Asia–Pacific Young Researcher Award 2018, and the 2020
N2Women: Rising Stars in Computer Networking and Communications. She
is Clarivate Analytics Highly Cited Researcher (Web of Science) in 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:16:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <FEFF005500740069006c006900730065007a00200063006500730020006f007000740069006f006e00730020006100660069006e00200064006500200063007200e900650072002000640065007300200064006f00630075006d0065006e00740073002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002000700072006f00660065007300730069006f006e006e0065006c007300200066006900610062006c0065007300200070006f007500720020006c0061002000760069007300750061006c00690073006100740069006f006e0020006500740020006c00270069006d007000720065007300730069006f006e002e0020004c0065007300200064006f00630075006d0065006e00740073002000500044004600200063007200e900e90073002000700065007500760065006e0074002000ea0074007200650020006f007500760065007200740073002000640061006e00730020004100630072006f006200610074002c002000610069006e00730069002000710075002700410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e0030002000650074002000760065007200730069006f006e007300200075006c007400e90072006900650075007200650073002e>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice