Consortium Blockchain for Secure Energy Trading in Industrial Internet of Things
3690 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2018
Consortium Blockchain for Secure Energy
Trading in Industrial Internet of Things
Zhetao Li , Member, IEEE, Jiawen Kang , Rong Yu , Member, IEEE, Dongdong Ye,
Qingyong Deng , and Yan Zhang , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract—In industrial Internet of things (IIoT), peer-
to-peer (P2P) energy trading ubiquitously takes place in
various scenarios, e.g., microgrids, energy harvesting
networks, and vehicle-to-grid networks. However, there
are common security and privacy challenges caused by
untrusted and nontransparent energy markets in these
scenarios. To address the security challenges, we exploit
the consortium blockchain technology to propose a secure
energy trading system named energy blockchain. This
energy blockchain can be widely used in general scenarios
of P2P energy trading getting rid of a trusted intermediary.
Besides, to reduce the transaction limitation resulted from
transaction confirmation delays on the energy blockchain,
we propose a credit-based payment scheme to support
fast and frequent energy trading. An optimal pricing
strategy using Stackelberg game for credit-based loans
is also proposed. Security analysis and numerical results
based on a real dataset illustrate that the proposed energy
blockchain and credit-based payment scheme are secure
and efficient in IIoT.
Index Terms—Blockchain, energy trading, industrial In-
ternet of things (IIoT), security and privacy, Stackelberg
game.
Manuscript received September 22, 2017; revised November 23,
2017; accepted December 10, 2017. Date of publication December
22, 2017; date of current version August 1, 2018. This work was sup-
ported in part by the programs of NSFC under Grant 61379115, Grant
61422201, Grant 61501127, Grant 61370159, and Grant U1301255,
Grant U1501251, in part by the Science and Technology Pro-
gram of Guangdong Province under Grant 2015B010129001, Grant
2016A030313705, Grant 2014B090907010, Grant 2015B010131014,
in part by the Special-Support Project of Guangdong Province under
Grant 2014TQ01X100, in part by the Science and Technology Program
of Guangzhou under Grant 2014J2200097, and in part by the projects
240079/F20 funded by the Research Council of Norway. Paper no. TII-
17-2196. (Corresponding author: Yan Zhang.)
Z. Li is with the College of Information Engineering, Xiangtan Univer-
sity, Xiangtan 411105, Chian (e-mail: liztchina@gmail.com).
J. Kang, R. Yu, and D. Ye are with the School of Automa-
tion, Guangdong University of Technology and also with Guangdong
Key Laboratory of IoT Information Technology, Guangzhou 510006,
China (e-mail: jiawenkang@ieee.org; yurong@ieee.org; Dongdongye@
ieee.org).
Q. Deng is with the School of Information and Communication En-
gineering, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing
100876, China, and also with the College of Information Engineering,
Xiangtan University, Xiangtan 411105, China (e-mail: dengqingyong@
xtu.edu.cn).
Y. Zhang is with University of Oslo, Norway, and also with Simula
Research Laboratory, Norway (e-mail: yanzhang@ieee.org).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TII.2017.2786307
I. INTRODUCTION
INDUSTRIAL Internet of things (IIoT) has attracted enor-
mous attention from academics and industries, which is a
significant component of the future transformation of industrial
systems [1], [2]. IIoT offers interconnection and intelligence to
industrial systems through sensing devices and actuators with
ubiquitous networking and computing abilities [3]. However,
it is a great challenge for the industrial systems to satisfy the
ever-increasing energy demands of IIoT applications, while IIoT
nodes continue to grow in both numbers and performance re-
quirements [4], [5]. To address this challenge, previous studies
have presented peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading among IIoT
nodes, such as electric vehicles [6]. The IIoT nodes can trade
their surplus energy with other nodes in a P2P manner to lo-
cally satisfy energy demands, improve energy efficiency, and
decrease transfer losses for promoting green industrial systems.
Many emerging technologies have been introduced into green
industrial systems, e.g., energy harvesting, wireless power trans-
fer, and vehicle-to-grid [7]. Combined with these technologies,
industrial systems develop various efficient and sustainable P2P
energy trading scenarios [6]. There are three typical P2P energy
trading scenarios for IIoT as following.
1) Microgrids: Smart buildings with solar panels or wind
generators can form microgrids, in which the buildings
harvest ambient energy and trade energy with each other
by a P2P manner among the microgrids.
2) Energy harvesting networks: Industrial nodes with en-
ergy harvesting ability can obtain energy from renewable
energy, also charge themselves through a mobile charger
using wireless power transfer by P2P energy trading.
3) Vehicle-to-grid networks: Electric vehicles acted as en-
ergy storage devices perform charging operations at load
valley, and feed their energy back into the power grid to
reduce load peaks. Vehicles can also sell their energy to
neighboring charging vehicles in a P2P manner with the
help of local aggregators [8], [9].
Although P2P energy trading plays a vital role in IIoT, there
are common security and privacy challenges for general P2P
energy trading scenarios.
1) It is insecure for IIoT nodes to carry out large-scale decen-
tralized energy trading in untrusted and nontransparent
energy markets.
2) IIoT nodes with surplus energy may be not willing to
participate as energy suppliers due to their concerns about
1551-3203 © 2017 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7804-0286
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8218-3490
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8218-3490
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9434-3968
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8561-5092
LI et al.: CONSORTIUM BLOCKCHAIN FOR SECURE ENERGY TRADING IN INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS 3691
privacy [10]. In this case, energy supply and demand are
unbalanced among IIoT nodes.
3) In P2P energy trading, there is an intermediary to audit
and verify transaction record among IIoT nodes.
This intermediary suffers from problems such as single point
of failure and privacy leakage [11]. Therefore, it is important to
design a unified and secure energy trading system for various
energy trading scenarios in IIoT [11]. In addition, it is necessary
to encourage more IIoT nodes with surplus energy to act as
energy sellers by designing proper incentives.
Recently, blockchain technology is studied in energy trading
because of its advantages of decentralization, anonymity, and
trust. Blockchain is an open, distributed ledger that records
transactions in a verifiable and permanent way, which is
the underlying fabric for Bitcoin. A digital currency named
“NRGcoin” based on Bitcoin protocols was presented for re-
newable energy trading in smart grids [12]. Aitzhan et al. [11]
utilized a blockchain with multisignatures to solve transaction
security problems in decentralized smart grids. However, due
to high cost to establish a general blockchain in energy-limited
IIoT nodes, the existing methods may not work well in P2P
energy trading among IIoT nodes.
Our previous work [9] has indicated that consortium
blockchain has high potential to establish decentralized electric-
ity trading system with moderate cost. Consortium blockchain
is a specific blockchain with authorized nodes to maintain
distributed shared databases. Based on [9], this paper further
exploits consortium blockchain technology to develop a uni-
fied and secure P2P energy trading system with consortium
blockchain, named energy blockchain. The energy blockchain
can be widely adopted in different scenarios of IIoT, including
the vehicle-to-grid scenario in [9]. Unlike focusing on pricing
of electricity trading in [9], we first observe typical P2P energy
trading scenarios in IIoT. After that, we present a unified energy
trading framework including energy buyers, sellers, and aggre-
gators. The energy blockchain is established on the preselected
energy aggregators (EAGs) to publicly audit and share trans-
action records in general energy trading scenarios without the
need of a trusted intermediary. Besides, similar to that in Bit-
coin, transaction confirmation delays on the energy blockchain
restrict fast transactions resulting in low efficiency [13]. To ad-
dress this challenge, we design a credit-based payment scheme
to support fast and frequent energy trading. IIoT nodes can fin-
ish fast payment through applying for loans according to their
credit values from credit banks. An optimal loan pricing strat-
egy for credit banks is proposed to maximize utility of the credit
banks in IIoT.
The main contributions of this paper are threefold.
1) Unified energy blockchain: We observe typical energy
trading scenarios in IIoT, and establish a unified energy
blockchain with moderate cost for IIoT.
2) Credit-based payment: To reduce the limitation of trans-
action confirmation delays, we design a credit-based pay-
ment scheme to support frequent energy trading enabling
fast payment.
3) Optimal pricing strategy: For the credit-based payment
scheme, we propose an optimal pricing strategy using
Fig. 1. Typical energy trading scenarios in IIoT.
Stackelberg game for credit-based loans to maximize the
utility of the credit bank. Numerical results show that our
energy blockchain and the credit-based payment scheme
are efficient and effective.
II. BLOCKCHAIN-ENABLED ENERGY TRADING FOR IIOT
A. Unified P2P Energy Trading Framework
In IIoT, P2P energy trading activities ubiquitously take place
among IIoT nodes to balance energy supply and demand. Fig. 1
shows three typical P2P energy trading scenarios mentioned
in Section I, i.e., microgrids, energy harvesting networks and
vehicle-to-grid networks. It is essential for these typical energy
trading scenarios to present a unified energy trading framework,
and thus to establish an energy blockchain for secure energy
trading [14]. The unified energy trading framework consists of
three common entities as follows.
1) Energy nodes: IIoT nodes (e.g., smart buildings, indus-
trial sensors, and electric vehicles) play different roles in
P2P energy trading: energy buyers, sellers, and idle nodes
that neither buy energy from other nodes nor sell energy
to others. Each node chooses its own role according to
energy state and future work plans.
2) Energy aggregators: EAGs work as energy brokers to
manage trading-related events and provide wireless com-
munication services for IIoT nodes. In different energy
trading scenarios, EAGs correspond to different physical
entities. For example, advanced metering infrastructures
in microgrids can be the EAGs. In energy harvesting net-
works, an enhanced-based station with computing and
storage abilities can be an EAG. In vehicle-to-grids, local
aggregators can act as the EAGs.
Fig. 2 shows four entities in an EAG: a transaction server,
a credit bank, an account pool, and a memory pool. The
transaction server collects energy requests from energy
nodes, and matches energy trading pairs of these energy
nodes. Here, a digital cryptocurrency named energy coin
works as energy nodes’ digital assets to trade energy in
IIoT [9]. Each energy node has an energy coin account
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3692 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2018
Fig. 2. Secure P2P energy trading with energy blockchain.
to store personal transaction records. There is a corre-
sponding wallet to manage personal energy coins in this
account. We use random pseudonyms as public keys of
an energy node’s wallet, named wallet addresses, to re-
place true address of the wallet for privacy protection. The
mapping relationships between all the wallets and corre-
sponding wallet addresses and energy coin accounts are
stored in local account pools. The account pools in EAGs
record and manage energy coins fund in personal wallet
addresses of energy nodes. The memory pool stores all
transaction records of local energy nodes.
3) Smart meters: A built-in smart meter in each IIoT node
calculates and records the amount of traded energy in real
time. The energy buyers pay the energy sellers according
to the records of smart meters.
B. Unified Energy Blockchain for Secure P2P Energy
Trading
In order to support secure P2P energy trading, we exploit
consortium blockchain to establish an energy blockchain based
on the unified P2P energy trading framework. For traditional
blockchains, an important transaction audit stage, named con-
sensus process, is executed before transaction records forming
a blockchain. This stage is carried out by all nodes in traditional
blockchains with high cost. Unlike that, the energy blockchain
performs the consensus process on preselected EAGs with mod-
erate cost. These EAGs collect and manage their local transac-
tion records. The transaction records are structured into blocks
after finishing the consensus process among the EAGs, and thus,
stored in the memory pool.
The following are more details about key operations of the
energy blockchain with the help of EAGs. The main terms in
the energy blockchain are listed in Table I.
1) System Initialization: In energy blockchain, we utilize
an efficient Boneh–Boyen short signature scheme for system
TABLE I
MAIN TERMS IN ENERGY BLOCKCHAIN
Terms Description
Energy nodes The IIoT nodes in the energy blockchain.
Energy sellers The energy nodes with surplus energy to sell.
Energy buyers The energy nodes with energy demand.
Borrowers Energy buyers that borrow energy coins from credit
banks.
Credit banks The entities that provide energy coins to borrowers
based on their credit values.
Transaction servers The entities that collect and count energy requests, and
thus match transaction pairs of energy trading.
Account pools The entities that record wallets, wallet addresses and
energy-coin accounts in EAGs.
Memory pools The entities that store all transaction records of local
energy nodes.
Wallets The entities that store energy coins.
initialization. After registration on a trusted authority, e.g., a
government department, each energy node becomes a legiti-
mate entity. An energy node i with true identity IDi joins the
system and gets its public&private keys (PKi & SKi) and cer-
tificate (Certi). The certificate Certi can be used to uniquely
identify the energy node through binding registration infor-
mation of the energy node. Node i obtains a set of ω wal-
let addresses {WIDi,k}ω
k=1 from the authority. The authority
generates a mapping list {IDi , PKi , SKi , Certi , {WIDi,k}ω
k=1},
and stores the list in the account pools. When node i exe-
cutes system initialization, node i uploads its wallet addresses
being used to the account pool of its nearest EAG. Node i
checks the integrity of its wallet, and downloads the latest data
about its wallet from a memory pool and the credit bank in
the EAG. The memory pool stores all transaction records in
the energy blockchain, and the credit bank records credit-based
payments.
2) Choosing Roles in Energy Trading: For P2P energy trad-
ing, energy nodes choose their roles (i.e., energy buyers and
sellers) according to their current energy status and energy de-
mands for future work plans. Energy nodes with surplus energy
may become energy sellers to meet local energy demands from
energy buyers.
3) Trading Energy Between Buyers and Sellers: Energy re-
quests including the amount of energy from energy buyers are
sent to the transaction server of a nearby EAG. The transac-
tion server in the EAG works as a controller to count the total
energy demands and to broadcast these demands for local en-
ergy sellers. The EAG works as an energy broker for energy
nodes to set traded prices according to current energy market,
and motivates local energy sellers for participation. The energy
sellers determine their selling energy and give responses back
to the controller. The controller matches the energy supply and
demand among energy nodes. Then the energy is transmitted
from the energy sellers to corresponding buyers by power lines
or wireless power transfer.
4) Payments Using Energy Coins: As shown in Fig. 2, an
energy buyer transfers energy coins from its wallet to a wallet
address given by the energy seller. The energy buyers without
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: CONSORTIUM BLOCKCHAIN FOR SECURE ENERGY TRADING IN INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS 3693
enough energy coins can apply a token from credit banks based
on credit grades to finish payments. More details are given
in Section III. The energy seller obtains the latest blockchain
data from the memory pool of EAGs to verify this payment
activity. The energy buyers generate new transaction records.
These transaction records are verified and digitally signed by
energy sellers, and thus, the records are uploaded to EAGs for
audit. After that, the credit values of both the energy seller and
buyer are, respectively, increased.
To balance energy demand and supply in our energy
blockchain, we provide incentives to encourage energy nodes to
meet local energy demands out of self-interest. During a certain
period, the energy seller with the most contribution to energy
supply in an EAG is rewarded by energy coins according to
contribution metering of energy flows between energy sellers
and buyers. This is a specific proof-of-work for energy nodes of
energy contributions, which is named as proof-of-flow (i.e., the
total amount of traded energy).
5) Building Blocks in Energy Blockchain: EAGs collect all
local transaction records during a certain period, and then en-
crypt and digitally sign these records to guarantee authenticity
and accuracy. Fig. 2 shows that the transaction records are struc-
tured into blocks. For traceability and verification, each block
contains a cryptographic hash to the prior blocks in the energy
blockchain. Similar to that in Bitcoin, the EAGs try to find their
own valid proof-of-work about data audit (i.e., a hash value
meeting a certain difficulty). An EAG calculates the hash value
of its block based on a random nonce value ϕ, the previous block
hash value, timestamp, transactions’ merkel root, etc., (denoted
as historydata) [15]. Namely, Hash(ϕ + historydata) < Difficulty.
Here, Difficulty can be adjusted by the system to control the
speed of finding out the specific ϕ. After finding a valid proof-
of-work (i.e., ϕ), the faster miner (EAG) broadcasts the block
and the specific ϕ to other EAGs. Other EAGs audit and verify
the transaction records in the block and ϕ. If other EAGs agree
on the block, data in this block will be added in a linear, chrono-
logical order in the energy blockchain, and the fastest miner is
awarded by energy coins.
6) Carrying Out Consensus Process: The consensus pro-
cess is carried out by authorized EAGs and a leader who is the
fastest EAG with a valid proof-of-work. Fig. 3 shows that the
leader broadcasts block data, timestamp, and its proof-of-work
to other authorized EAGs for verification and audit. For mutual
supervision and verification, these EAGs audit the block data
and broadcast their audit results with their signatures to each
other. After receiving the audit results, each EAG compares
its result with others and sends a reply back to the leader. This
reply consists of the EAG’s audit result, comparison result,
signatures, and records of received audit results. The leader
analyzes the received replies from EAGs. If all the EAGs
agree on the block data, the leader will send records including
current audited block data and a corresponding signature to all
authorized EAGs for storage. After that, this block is stored in
the consortium blockchain, and the leader is awarded by energy
coins. If some EAGs do not agree on the block data, the leader
will analyze the audit results, and send the block data to these
EAGs once again for audit if necessary.
Fig. 3. Consensus process for energy blockchain.
The energy blockchain has good scalability that can keep
up with the network scale with a large number of IIoT nodes.
Unlike public blockchains, the consensus process of the energy
blockchain is carried out on a small number of authorized EAGs
[16]. As the network grows, the predefined nodes are also able to
scale their computing power and storage resource in line with the
increase in number of transactions [17]. The total time needed
for reaching consensus of a new block is stable regardless of the
network size, when the authorized EAGs formation is complete
and remains as a constant [18].
III. CREDIT-BASED PAYMENT FOR FAST P2P
ENERGY TRADING
In energy blockchain, all authorized EAGs need to audit and
verify transaction records in new blocks (i.e., the consensus
process). It takes a certain time, named transaction confirmation
time, to finish the consensus process. And, thus, energy coins
for transaction payments are finally arrived at corresponding
wallet address. Although transaction confirmation time in our
energy blockchain is shorter than that of Bitcoin (about 60 min)
[19], [20], it is still not convenient and practical for IIoT nodes
to frequently trade energy. Some energy buyers may have no
energy coins to trade energy frequently. To address this problem,
we design a credit-based payment scheme to support fast trading,
therefore enabling frequent P2P energy trading through energy-
coin loans.
In Fig. 4, a credit bank in each authorized EAG works as a
trusted bank node with enough energy coins. The credit banks
provide energy coin loans for energy nodes according to their
credit values, then the energy coins will be transferred from the
credit banks’ accounts to the wallet addresses shared between
the credit banks and borrowers. More details about operation
steps of the credit-based payment scheme are given as follows.
1) Token Requesting: A borrower Bi (i.e., energy buyer i
without enough energy coins) can apply a token based on its
credit value from a local credit bank to finish payments.
Step 1: Bi sends a request including the true identity IDi , cer-
tificate Certi , all used wallet addresses {WIDi,k}K
k=1,
loan amount amounti , and current credit value crediti
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3694 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2018
Fig. 4. Credit-based payment scheme for P2P energy trading.
to an EAG m, namely
Bi → EAGm : requesti = {IDi ||{WIDi,k}K
k=1||
Certi ||crediti ||amounti}.
Step 2: After receiving requesti , the credit bank verifies the
identity of Bi and checks fund-flows of the given
{WIDi,k}K
k=1 according to the records in account pools
and credit banks. Thus, the credit bank calculates cur-
rent wealth of Bi .
Step 3: Bi is allowed to obtain a token when the following
requirements hold:
a) there is some wealth in Bi’s energy-coin ac-
count;
b) the account has a regular income (e.g., selling its
energy for earning energy coins);
c) the credit value of Bi is not negative.
The credit bank calculates an optimal loan amount of
Bi and the corresponding interest rate and penalty rate,
i.e., loan prices. More details about loan pricing are
given in Section IV.
Step 4: The credit bank creates a shared wallet (walletic b) and
sends public&private keys of this wallet (i.e., PKi
cb, and
SKi
cb) to Bi . The PKi
cb is the shared wallet address for
Bi and the credit bank. Both Bi and the credit bank are
allowed to use the energy coins in walletic b, and top up
this wallet if necessary.
Step 5: Bi receives a response including a token (Tokeni) and
a signature of this token SignSKcb
(Tokeni) as follows:
EAGm → Bi : response = {(PKi
cb, SKi
cb)||Tokeni ||
SignSKcb
(Tokeni)||Timestamp}
where
Tokeni = {balancei ||t||Certicb||amounti ||Certcb||
buffer||pre recordi ||Timestamp}
and pre recordi = { RPi(s, f)||Hash(TXi)i=1,2,..,h}.
Here, Tokeni includes current balance balancei , loan
amount amounti , an authorization certificate Certicb,
validity duration t of walletic b, repayment buffer of the
loan buffer, and previous loan records pre recordi . Bi
should repay energy-coin loan during buffer, otherwise,
Bi will suffer with a late fee (i.e., penalty). pre recordi
consists of a loan repayment record RPi(s, f) and a
hash value of previous credit-based payment records
Hash(TXi). In RPi(s, f), s is the number of repaying
loan within buffer in previous loan records, while f is
the number of failing to repay loan in time.
2) Energy Coin Payment: During energy trading, Bi uses
energy coins in walletic b to finish payment. Each payment based
on the walletic b is verified and recorded by the local credit bank.
The credit bank puts the hash value of payment-related data into
pre recordi for checking out wealth of Bi when necessary. More
details about payment operations are given as follows.
Step 1: The borrower Bi sends the following Payment includ-
ing the token (Tokeni), the token signature, and the
authorization certificate (Certicb) to an energy seller Sj .
Sj verifies Certicb and the validity duration of walletic b
(i.e., t) in Tokeni , and checks all previous credit-based
payment records in the energy blockchain to confirm
current balance in walletic b
Bi → Sj : Payment = {Tokeni ||Certi ||Certicb||
SignSKi
(Tokeni)||Timestamp}.
Step 2: Sj sends the Tokeni , an energy bill, and a wallet address
for receiving energy coins (WIDSj
), a digital signature
of the above information to the credit bank
Sj → EAGm : Energy bill = {Certj ||Bill||WIDSj
||Payment||SignSKj
(Payment)||Timestamp}.
Step 3: The credit bank verifies the receiving Tokeni by com-
paring to the original Tokeni recorded in the credit
bank. The credit bank checks that whether the balance
in Tokeni is enough to pay for the Bill. If yes, the credit
bank transfers energy coins in walletic b to WIDSj
for
finishing payment. If not, the credit bank sends a notice
of insufficient balance to Bi .
Step 4: After that, the credit bank updates balance information
of walletic b and Tokeni , and adds its digital signature
into the new token Tokennew
i . The above credit-based
payment record is audited and recorded in the energy
blockchain, at the same time, the new token is sent to
the buyer for updating.
3) Repay Energy-Coin Loan: After validity duration of tokeni ,
Bi will receive the newest token tokennewest
i including all hash
values of the credit-based payment records using tokeni .
The following are three cases about the loan repayment.
1) Case one: If Bi repays the energy-coin loan within its
repayment buffer, Bi repays the loan with an interest as
a transaction fee to the credit bank. The interest rate is
calculated in Section IV.
2) Case two: If Bi cannot repay the loan in time, f in
RPi(s, f) will be added one, and the credit value of the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: CONSORTIUM BLOCKCHAIN FOR SECURE ENERGY TRADING IN INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS 3695
buyer will be decreased. The new credit value of the
buyer is denoted as, Creditin+1 = Creditin − d • amounti ,
where Creditin is the credit value of nth energy transac-
tion. d is a constant and d > 0. The credit bank generates a
record about this event, and thus, stores the record in the
memory pool and uploads it to the energy blockchain.
When the buyer finally finishing the energy-coin loan
payment, Bi still suffers from a penalty with respect to
the loan amount.
3) Case three: If Bi rejects to repay or cannot repay the
loan in a long time, such as one year, the credit bank
will put the borrower into a blacklist and broadcast this
information to all nodes in the energy blockchain. Then
all the IIoT nodes and credit banks will reject to cooperate
with this borrower.
IV. OPTIMAL LOAN PRICING IN CREDIT-BASED PAYMENT
In this section, we present the problem definition about the
amount of energy-coin loan and loan pricing (i.e., interest rate
and penalty rate) for borrowers to maximize economic benefits
of credit banks. Energy buyers without enough energy coins act
as borrowers to apply for loans from the credit bank in a local
EAG. After that, the borrowers worked as energy buyers can
buy energy from energy sellers.
A. Problem Formulation
In a local EAG m, for a borrower Bi , the amount of loan
provided by a credit bank m (i.e., CBm ) is denoted as Ri . Here
i ∈ I and Bi ∈ B. The minimum energy resource demand for
Bi is denoted as Qmin
i , and pi is a given price of the energy
resource before loan requests. The credit bank must provide
Ri
pi
loan to Bi for finishing energy payment. We consider that
the local credit bank has enough energy coins to support loan
requests from borrowers. If a local credit bank does not have
enough energy coins for borrowers, the nearby credit banks can
cooperate to support loan requests in the energy blockchain. The
satisfaction function of Bi is denoted as
usat = diln
(
Ri
pi
− Qmin
i + θi
)
(1)
where di > 0 and θi > 0 are predefined factors for Bi .
The utility of Bi is expressed as
ui = λi [usat − βiRiti ] − (1 − λi)αiRi (2)
where λi is repayment ability of a loan, namely, it is the proba-
bility that Bi can repay the loan within its repayment buffer. λi
can be calculated by the loan repayment record RPi(s, f) of Bi
(mentioned in Section III). Here, 0 < λi = s
s+f ≤ 1. βi is in-
terest rate of the loan depended by the credit bank. αi is penalty
rate of the repayment delay. We consider that the relationship
between the interest rate and the penalty rate is αi = ηitiβi [21].
Here ηi > 1 is a predefined factor, e.g., 3.5, and ti > 0 is the
time when the loan began.
The reward of the credit bank consists of the loan interest
from Bi , and the late fee (i.e., penalty) if Bi cannot repay the
loan in time [21]. The overhead of the credit bank is Ritici .
Here ci is unit cost of Bi’s loan for the credit bank. Thus, the
economic benefits of the credit bank are defined as follows:
ui
bc = γi(βiRiti − Ritici) + (1 − γi)αiRi (3)
where γi is predefined credit grade factor depended on Bi’s
credit grade given by the credit bank (here, 0 < γi ≤ 1). γi is
calculated from loan histories of borrowers. The credit grades
of energy buyers are classified into different levels according to
credit values of energy buyers. Higher credit grade brings higher
γi . More details about the value of γi are given in Section V-C.
A noncooperative Stackelberg game usually studies the mul-
tilevel decision making processes of a number of independent
decision makers in response to the decision taken by the leading
player of the game [22]. In this paper, we formulate a noncoop-
erative Stackelberg game, where a credit bank is the leader and
the borrowers are followers. The credit bank finally determines
the penalty rate (i.e., αi) for each borrower, respectively. Every
borrower will respond with the best amount of loan (i.e., Ri)
according to its penalty rate given by the credit bank. The game
G is formally defined by its strategic form as
G = {(B ∪ {CBm}), {ui}i∈I, {ui
bc}i∈I, Ri, αi}. (4)
The objective functions for the leader (i.e., the credit bank)
and a follower (i.e., borrower i) in a local EAG are, respectively,
denoted as follows:
Leader : max
αi
I∑
i=1
ui
bc(αi)
s.t., αi ≥ 0.
Follower : max
Ri
ui(Ri)
s.t., Ri > Qmin
i pi − θipi. (5)
B. Solution
We use the backward induction method to solve the SE for the
above formulated game [23]. We first solve Bi’s optimal amount
of loan (i.e., R∗
i ), then the optimal interest rate and penalty rate
are determined by the credit bank.
By differentiating ui defined in (2) with respect to Ri , we
have
∂ui
∂Ri
=
λidi
Ri − Qmin
i pi + θipi
− λiβiti − (1 − λi)αi (6)
∂2ui
∂R2
i
= − λidi
(Ri − Qmin
i pi + θipi)2
< 0. (7)
This means that ui is a strictly concave function. We obtain
the optimal strategy by solving ∂ui
∂Ri
= 0 as follows:
R∗
i =
λidi
λiβiti + (1 − λi)αi
+ ki (8)
where ki = Qmin
i pi − θipi .
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3696 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2018
We substitute (8) into (3), then
ui
bc =
λidi [γiβiti − γitici + (1 − γi)αi ]
λiβiti + (1 − λi)αi
+ ki [γiβiti
− γitici + (1 − γi)αi ]. (9)
For presentation, we simply the above equation as follows:
ui
bc =
hb
1βi − hb
2 + hb
3αi
λiβiti + (1 − λi)αi
+ hb
4βi − hb
5 + hb
6αi (10)
where hb
1 = λidiγiti , hb
2 = λidiγitici , hb
3 = λidi(1 − γi), hb
4 =
kiγiti , hb
5 = kiγitici , hb
6 = ki(1 − γi).
By differentiating ui
bc with respect to αi , we have
∂2ui
bc
∂α2
i
= − 2hb
2ηi
(λi + ηi − λiηi)α3
i
< 0. (11)
When ki < 0, we have limαi →0 ui
bc =−∞ and limαi →+∞ ui
bc
=−∞. When ki < 0, for 0 < αi <
√
− hb
2 η 2
i ti
(hb
4 +hb
6 ηi ti )(λi +ηi −λi ηi )
and αi >
√
− hb
2 η 2
i ti
(hb
4 +hb
6 ηi ti )(λi +ηi −λi ηi )
, we have ∂ui
bc
∂αi
> 0 and
∂ui
bc
∂αi
< 0, respectively. The utility function ui
bc first increases,
and then decreasing with increasing αi . The function is a strictly
concave function [24]. The maximum value exists. So we get
the optimal strategy by ∂ui
bc
∂αi
= 0
α∗
i =
√
− hb
2η
2
i ti
(hb
4 + hb
6ηiti)(λi + ηi − λiηi)
. (12)
When ki > 0, αi < 0. Therefore, we have α∗
i = 0. For sim-
plicity, we can rewrite the optimal strategy of the bank by
α∗
i =
⎧⎪⎨
⎪⎩
0, ki > 0,
min
(√
− hb
2 η 2
i ti
(hb
4 +hb
6 ηi ti )(λi +ηi −λi ηi )
, αmax
i
)
, ki ≤ 0
(13)
and β∗
i = α∗
i
ηi ti
.
In order to achieve Stackelberg equilibrium (SE), the credit
bank needs to communicate with each borrower. Algorithm 1
is presented to provide a distributed way for all borrowers and
the credit bank in order to iteratively reach the unique SE of the
proposed game.
Theorem 1: A unique SE can always be achieved in the pro-
posed Stackelberg game G between the credit bank and borrow-
ers in the set B [22].
Proof: The utility function ui in (2) is strictly concave with
respect to Ri , ∀i ∈ I, i.e., ∂ 2ui
∂R2
i
< 0. Hence, for any penalty
rate αi > 0, each borrower has a unique Ri to maximize ui .
Clearly, the game G reaches the SE when all the borrowers and
the credit bank (i.e., players) achieve their optimized utilities,
respectively, considering the strategy chosen by all players in
the game. Therefore, it is obvious that the proposed game G
reaches an SE as soon as the credit bank finds an optimized
price α∗
i , while the borrowers choose their unique loan amounts.
From (11), we note that ui
bc is strictly convex with respect to
αi . Hence, the credit bank is able to find a unique optimal
Algorithm 1: Optimal Loan Pricing Algorithm.
Initialize ui
bc
∗ = 0, u∗
i = 0, R∗
i = 0, α∗
i = 0
for The interest rate αi from 0 to αmax
i do
for Each borrower i ∈ I do
if ki > 0 then
Ri
∗ = 0, αi
∗ = 0
break
end if
Borrower i adjusts its loan amount Ri according to
R∗
i = λi di
λi βi ti +(1−λi )αi
+ ki.
end for
The bank adjusts its utility according to ui
bc
∗ = γi (βi
Ri ti − Riti ci ) + (1 − γi )αiRi .
if ui
bc ≤ ui
bc
∗ then
The bank records the optimal interest rate and
maximum utility
R∗
i =Ri , u
∗
i = ui , u
i
bc
∗ = ui
bc, α
∗
i = αi .
end if
if ui
bc � ui
bc
∗ then
break
end if
end for
The SE(Ri
∗, αi
∗) is achieved.
price α∗
i based on borrowers’ strategies. Therefore, there exists a
unique SE. �
V. SECURITY ANALYSIS AND NUMERICAL RESULTS
In this section, we first provide security analysis about our
energy blockchain. After that, we evaluate performance about
the energy blockchain, and use a real dataset to analyze the
performance of the credit-based payment scheme.
A. Security Analysis on Energy Blockchain
Unlike traditional communication security and privacy pro-
tection, our energy blockchain uses a consortium blockchain
to ensure energy trading security and privacy protection.
The blockchain-related security performances are listed as
follows [25].
1) Get rid of a trusted intermediary: In our energy
blockchain, IIoT nodes trade energy in a P2P manner,
which is unlike traditional centralized trading relying on
a globally trusted intermediary. All the IIoT nodes have
the equal right to trade energy with the help of authorized
EAGs. The energy blockchain is robust and scalable with-
out the involvement of a globally trusted intermediary.
2) Wallet security: Without corresponding keys and certifi-
cates, no adversary can open an IIoT node’s wallet and
steal energy coins from the wallet. As each IIoT node has
a unique wallet corresponding to its energy coin account,
we use multiple wallet addresses as pseudonyms of this
wallet for privacy protection.
3) Transaction authentication: All transaction data are pub-
licly audited and authenticated by other entities includ-
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: CONSORTIUM BLOCKCHAIN FOR SECURE ENERGY TRADING IN INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS 3697
Fig. 5. Performance comparison about (a) transaction confirmation
time and (b) transaction speed.
ing IIoT nodes and trusted EAGs. It is impossible to
compromise all entities in the energy blockchain due to
overwhelming cost. Even an EAG is compromised, the
transaction data with something wrong will still be found
out and corrected before structuring into a block.
4) Data unforgeability: The decentralized nature of the con-
sortium blockchain combined with digitally signed trans-
actions ensures that no adversary can pose as IIoT nodes
to corrupt the network. It is because that the adversary
cannot forge a digital signature of any node, or gain con-
trol over the majority of the network’s resources [25]. An
adversary controlling one or more EAGs in the energy
blockchain cannot learn anything about the raw data, as
it is encrypted with keys of IIoT nodes. The adversary
cannot forge the audited and stored data in the energy
blockchain [19].
5) No double-spending: Energy coin relies on digital signa-
tures to prove ownership and a public history of transac-
tions to prevent double-spending. The history of transac-
tions is shared using a P2P network and is agreed upon
using a proof-of-work manner.
B. Performance Analysis on Energy Blockchain
We compare the transaction confirmation time under differ-
ent frequencies of energy trading in different blockchains, and
evaluate the performance of the average transaction speed of
our proposed credit-based payment scheme. Here, the transac-
tion speed refers to the number of finished energy trading in
one hour. The total transaction confirmation time on the average
means the average time of finishing the consensus process of
an energy trading for an energy node. For the purpose of illus-
tration, we simulate the performance among 50 pairs of IIoT
nodes for 240 min. Similar to that in Bitcoin, the transaction
confirmation time of traditional blockchains is 60 min, whereas
that of our energy blockchain is set to be 10 min as an example
[20]. The total number of preselected EAGs is 51 in our energy
blockchain. The frequency of energy trading in one hour takes
values from the set {1, 2, 3, 4, 5} with equal probability for IIoT
nodes. Each IIoT node has twenty energy coins in the wallet for
P2P energy trading.
Fig. 5(a) shows that, for a traditional blockchain (e.g., Bit-
coin), the total transaction confirmation time on the average
for an energy node is much longer than that of our energy
blockchain when the frequency of energy trading increases. This
Fig. 6. Probability distribution histogram of credit grades in the real
dataset.
is due to the fact that our energy blockchain only carries out the
consensus process on the preselected EAGs instead of all con-
nected nodes in the traditional blockchain. Fig. 5(b) shows the
average transaction speed of energy trading in different schemes.
During energy trading, IIoT nodes without enough energy coins
cannot perform next energy trading until the last trading fin-
ishing the consensus process. So as shown in Fig. 5(b), the
traditional blockchain and our energy blockchain have an upper
limit of the average transaction speed in one hour. While our
credit-based payment scheme has a higher transaction speed on
average because of the help of credit banks in EAGs. These
credit banks provide enough energy coins to IIoT nodes to con-
tinuously perform energy trading on energy blockchain without
the limitation of transaction confirmation delays. The results
indicate that our proposed scheme supports fast P2P energy
trading, therefore, enabling frequent energy trading among IIoT
nodes.
C. Performance Analysis on Credit-Based Payment
We study the performances of proposed credit-based pay-
ment scheme based on a real dataset from a lending club’s
issued loans in [26]. This dataset includes current loan status
(e.g., fully paid), latest payment information, credit values, ad-
dresses, etc. According to the lending club loan data, there are
890 thousand observations with 35 gradually increasing credit
grades (“A1,” “A2,”..., “B1,” “B2,”..., “G4,” “G5”) in Fig. 6.
We consider 100 borrowers with different credit grades ranged
from A1 to G5 in IIoT. The nth credit grade has a corresponding
credit grade factor rn = 1 − n−1
N , here N = 35. The probability
that a borrower belongs to a specified credit grade is distributed
according to probability distribution histogram in Fig. 6. These
borrowers are divided into five groups to apply for energy-coin
loans from five credit banks, respectively. Each credit bank with
limited energy coins only provides loans to 20 borrowers. We
carry out two heuristic energy coin distribution schemes to com-
pare the performance with our proposed scheme. One heuristic
scheme is that the borrowers are allowed to apply for a random
amount of energy coins from five credit banks (denoted as ran-
dom amount scheme, RAS). Another one is that the borrowers
can apply for average amount energy coins (denoted as aver-
age amount scheme, AAS). Our scheme makes optimal pricing
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3698 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2018
TABLE II
PARAMETER SETTING IN THE SIMULATION
Parameter Setting
Predefined factor di [20 000, 20 400]
Predefined factor θi [2000, 2500]
Predefined factor ti (0, 10] month
Unit penalty ηi 3.5
Repayment ability λi (0, 1]
Credit grade factor of γi [0, 1]
Unit cost of loan ci [0.1, 0.2]
Fig. 7. Performance comparison about economic benefits of (a) credit
banks and (b) borrowers.
decisions for borrowers according to their information (e.g.,
income, loan records, credit value). More parameters about our
proposed scheme are listed in Table II.
Fig. 7(a) shows the performance comparison of energy coin
distribution schemes. For example, we set the interest rate of the
loan is 0.1 in RAS and AAS. We note that the credit banks can
obtain optimal economic benefit in our proposed scheme. The
average economic benefit for five credit banks in our proposed
scheme is 64.8% higher than that of AAS, and 226.9% higher
than that of RAS. Similar results can be found in Fig. 7(b). The
average economic benefit for five borrowers randomly chosen
in our proposed scheme is 24.1% higher than that of AAS, and
5.7% higher than that of RAS.
Fig. 8 shows the convergence evolution of economic benefits
of a randomly chosen credit bank and optimal loan amount of
Fig. 8. Convergence evolution of economic benefits and optimal loan
amount.
Fig. 9. Parameter impacts of parameter setting.
a randomly chosen borrower, respectively. Note that both the
economic benefits and optimal loan amount rapidly converges
close to their optimal values after 19 iterations, respectively.
Fig. 9 shows performance impacts of credit grade factor γi on
credit bank, and impacts of λi on borrowers. Fig. 9(a) shows that
the economic benefits of credit bank decrease as γi increases.
This is because that borrowers with higher credit grade are more
likely to repay the loan in time leading to less penalty for the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LI et al.: CONSORTIUM BLOCKCHAIN FOR SECURE ENERGY TRADING IN INDUSTRIAL INTERNET OF THINGS 3699
credit bank. While the repayment ability of borrowers λi has a
positive impact on the average economic benefit of borrowers
as shown in Fig. 9(b). In summary, according to Figs. 5–Fig. 9,
our proposed energy blockchain and the credit-based payment
scheme are effective and efficient for energy trading in IIoT.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have presented a unified energy blockchain
based on consortium blockchain for secure energy trading in
various typical scenarios of IIoT, such as microgrids, energy
harvesting networks, and vehicle-to-grids. We also designed a
credit-based payment scheme to overcome the transaction lim-
itation caused by transaction confirmation delays, which sup-
ports fast and frequent energy trading by credit-based payment
among energy nodes. We propose an optimal pricing strategy
using Stackelberg game for energy-coin loans to maximize eco-
nomic benefits of credit banks. We perform security and per-
formance analysis to evaluate the energy blockchain and the
credit-based payment scheme, respectively. Security analysis
shows that our energy blockchain achieves secure energy trad-
ing, and numerical results illustrate that the energy blockchain
and the credit-based payment scheme are effective and efficient
for energy trading. There are several interesting problems that
can be further studied, such as optimal EAG selection, specific
schemes designed for extreme scenarios including IIoT nodes
with excellent or poor credit values.
REFERENCES
[1] L. D. Xu, W. He, and S. Li, “Internet of things in Industries: A survey,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 2233–2243, Nov. 2014.
[2] K. Wang, Y. Wang, Y. Sun, S. Guo, and J. Wu, “Green industrial internet
of things architecture: An energy-efficient perspective,” IEEE Commun.
Mag., vol. 54, no. 12, pp. 48–54, Dec. 2016.
[3] Z. Bi, L. D. Xu, and C. Wang, “Internet of things for enterprise systems
of modern manufacturing,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 10, no. 2,
pp. 1537–1546, May 2014.
[4] R. Alvaro-Hermana, R. Yu, M. Nekovee, Y. Liu, S. Xie, and S. Gjessing,
“Cognitive machine-to-machine communications: Visions and potentials
for the smart grid,” IEEE Netw., vol. 26, no. 3, pp. 6–13, May/Jun. 2012.
[5] Y. Zhang, R. Yu, S. Xie, W. Yao, Y. Xiao, and M. Guizani, “Home M2M
networks: Architectures, standards, and QoS improvement,” IEEE Com-
mun. Mag., vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 44–52, Apr. 2011.
[6] R. Alvaro-Hermana, J. Fraile-Ardanuy, P. J. Zufiria, L. Knapen, and
D. Janssens, “Peer to peer energy trading with electric vehicles,” IEEE
Intell. Transp. Syst. Mag., vol. 8, no., pp. 33–44, Fall 2016.
[7] Y. Xiao, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han, “Dynamic energy trading
for wireless powered communication networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag.,
vol. 54, no. 11, pp. 158–164, Nov. 2016.
[8] Q. Li et al., “Supply and demand oriented energy management in the
internet of things,” Adv. IoT, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 1–17, 2016.
[9] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang, and E. Hossain, “En-
abling localized peer-to-peer electricity trading among plug-in hybrid elec-
tric vehicles using consortium blockchains,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat.,
vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 3154–3164, Dec. 2017.
[10] J. Matamoros, D. Gregoratti, and M. Dohler, “Microgrids energy trading
in islanding mode,” in proc. IEEE SmartGridComm, 2012, pp. 49–54.
[11] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, “Security and privacy in decentralized
energy trading through multi-signatures, blockchain and anonymous mes-
saging streams,” IEEE Trans. Depend. Sec. Comput., to be published, doi:
10.1109/TDSC.2016.2616861.
[12] M. Mihaylov, S. Jurado, N. Avellana, K. Van Moffaert, I. M. de Abril,
and A. Now, “Nrgcoin: Virtual currency for trading of renewable energy
in smart grids,” in Proc. IEEE 11the Int. Conf. Eur. Energy Market, 2014,
pp. 1–6.
[13] S. Barber et al, “Bitter to better-how to make bitcoin a better currency,”
in Proc. Int. Conf. Financial Cryptography Data Security, 2012, pp. 399–
414.
[14] C. Calvillo et al., “Energy management and planning in smart cities,”
Renewable Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 55, pp. 273–287, 2016.
[15] I. Alqassem et al., “Towards reference architecture for cryptocurrencies:
Bitcoin architectural analysis,” in Proc. IEEE Internet Things, IEEE Int.
Conf. Green Comput. Commun., IEEE Cyber, Physical Social Comput.,
2014, pp. 436–443.
[16] K. Croman et al., “On scaling decentralized blockchains,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Financial Cryptography Data Security, 2016, pp. 106–125.
[17] G. W. Peters and E. Panayi, “Understanding modern banking ledgers
through blockchain technologies: Future of transaction processing and
smart contracts on the internet of money,” in Banking Beyond Banks and
Money. New York, NY, USA: Springer-Verlag, 2016, pp. 239–278.
[18] L. Luu et al., “A secure sharding protocol for open blockchains,” Proc.
ACM SIGSAC Conf. Comput. Commun. Security, 2016, pp. 17–30.
[19] L. A. Linn et al., “Blockchain for health data and its potential
use in health it and health care related research,” ONC/NIST Use of
Blockchain for Healthcare and Research Workshop, Gaithersburg, MD,
USA: ONC/NIST, 2016.
[20] Z. Zheng et al., “Blockchain challenges and opportunities: A survey”
Workshop Paper. Geneva, Switzerland: Inderscience Publishers, 2016.
[21] J. Wang et al., “Perverse nudges: Minimum payments and debt pay-
down in consumer credit cards,” Penn Wharton Public Policy Initia-
tive, Book 25, 2014. [Online]. Available: http://repository.upenn.edu/
pennwhartonppi/25
[22] W. Tushar et al., “Three-party energy management with distributed en-
ergy resources in smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 62, no. 4,
pp. 2487–2498, Apr. 2015.
[23] S. Maharjan et al., “Dependable demand response management in the
smart grid: A Stackelberg game approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 120–132, Mar. 2013.
[24] Z. Su et al., “A game theoretic approach to parked vehicle assisted content
delivery in vehicular ad hoc networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 66,
no. 7, pp. 6461–6474, Jul. 2017.
[25] G. Zyskind et al., “Decentralizing privacy: Using blockchain to protect
personal data,” in Proc. IEEE Security Privacy Workshops, 2015, pp. 180–
184.
[26] Lending Club Loan Data, 2016. [Online]. Available: https://www.kaggle.
com/wendykan/lending-club-loan-data
Zhetao Li (M’17) received the B. Eng. degree in
electrical information engineering from Xiangtan
University, Xiangtan, China, in 2002, the M. Eng.
degree in pattern recognition and intelligent
system from Beihang University, Beijing, China,
in 2005, and the Ph.D. degree in computer
application technology from Hunan University,
Changsha, China, in 2010.
He is currently a Professor of the College
of Information Engineering, Xiangtan University.
He was a Visiting Researcher with Ajou Univer-
sity from May to Aug 2012. His research interests include wireless net-
work and Internet of Things, Compressed sensing and big data.
Jiawen Kang received the M.S. degree in con-
trol engineering from the Guangdong Univer-
sity of Technology, Guangzhou, China, in 2015,
where he is currently working toward the Ph.D.
degree in control science and engineering.
His research interests include resource man-
agement, security and privacy protection in wire-
less communications and networking.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TDSC.2016.2616861
3700 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS, VOL. 14, NO. 8, AUGUST 2018
Rong Yu (M’08) received the Ph.D. degree
in electronics and communications engineer-
ing from Tsinghua University, Beijing, China, in
2007.
After that, he worked with the School of
Electronic and Information Engineering of South
China University of Technology. In 2010, he
joined the Institute of Intelligent Information Pro-
cessing with the Guangdong University of Tech-
nology, Guangzhou, China, where he is currently
a full Professor. His research interests include
wireless networking and mobile computing in featured environments,
such as edge cloud, connected vehicles, smart grid, and Internet of
Things. He is the coinventor of more than 30 patents and author or
coauthor of more than 100 international journal and conference papers.
He was the member of home networking standard committee in China,
where he led the standardization work of three standards.
Dongdong Ye is currently working toward
the Master’s degree in networked control sys-
tems at Guangdong University of Technology,
Guangzhou, China.
His research interests include resource allo-
cation in mobile cloud computing, data pricing,
and valuation in big data trading.
Qingyong Deng received the B.Eng. degree
in electrical information engineering and the
M.Eng. degree in signal and information pro-
cessing from Xiangtan University, Xiangtan,
China, in 2004 and 2009. He is currently
working toward the Ph.D degree in signal and
information processing at Beijing University of
Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing, China.
Since 2004, he is a Teacher with the college
of Information Engineering, Xiangtan University.
His research interests include cognitive network,
machine-to-machine communication, smart grid, and energy harvesting
communication.
Yan Zhang (SM’10) received the Ph.D. degree
in electronic and electrical engineering from the
School of Electrical & Electronics Engineering,
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
He is currently a full Professor with the
Department of Informatics, University of Oslo,
Norway. His current research interests include
next-generation wireless networks leading to
5G, and green and secure cyber-physical sys-
tems (e.g., smart grid, healthcare, and trans-
port).
Dr. Zhang is an Associate Technical Editor for the IEEE COMMU-
NICATIONS MAGAZINE, an Editor for the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON GREEN
COMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORKING, IEEE COMMUNICATIONS SURVEYS &
TUTORIALS, and the IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, and an Asso-
ciate Editor for the IEEE ACCESS. He has served as the Chair for a
number of conferences, including IEEE GLOBECOM 2017, IEEE VTC-
Spring 2017, IEEE PIMRC 2016, IEEE CloudCom 2016, IEEE ICCC
2016, IEEE CCNC 2016, IEEE SmartGridComm 2015, and IEEE Cloud-
Com 2015. He has served as a TPC member for numerous international
conference including IEEE INFOCOM, IEEE ICC, IEEE GLOBECOM,
and IEEE WCNC. He is the IEEE Vehicular Technology Society Distin-
guished Lecturer. He is also a Senior Member of IEEE ComSoc, IEEE
CS, IEEE PES, and IEEE VT Society. He is a Fellow of IET.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:08:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles true
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /sRGB
  /DoThumbnails true
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo true
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Algerian
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BlackItalic
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BaskOldFace
    /Batang
    /Bauhaus93
    /BellMT
    /BellMTBold
    /BellMTItalic
    /BerlinSansFB-Bold
    /BerlinSansFBDemi-Bold
    /BerlinSansFB-Reg
    /BernardMT-Condensed
    /BodoniMTPosterCompressed
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /BritannicBold
    /Broadway
    /BrushScriptMT
    /CalifornianFB-Bold
    /CalifornianFB-Italic
    /CalifornianFB-Reg
    /Centaur
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /Chiller-Regular
    /ColonnaMT
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CooperBlack
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FootlightMTLight
    /FreestyleScript-Regular
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /HarlowSolid
    /Harrington
    /HighTowerText-Italic
    /HighTowerText-Reg
    /Impact
    /InformalRoman-Regular
    /Jokerman-Regular
    /JuiceITC-Regular
    /KristenITC-Regular
    /KuenstlerScript-Black
    /KuenstlerScript-Medium
    /KuenstlerScript-TwoBold
    /KunstlerScript
    /LatinWide
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaBright
    /LucidaBright-Demi
    /LucidaBright-DemiItalic
    /LucidaBright-Italic
    /LucidaCalligraphy-Italic
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaFax
    /LucidaFax-Demi
    /LucidaFax-DemiItalic
    /LucidaFax-Italic
    /LucidaHandwriting-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Magneto-Bold
    /MaturaMTScriptCapitals
    /MediciScriptLTStd
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /Mistral
    /Modern-Regular
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MS-Mincho
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /NiagaraEngraved-Reg
    /NiagaraSolid-Reg
    /NuptialScript
    /OldEnglishTextMT
    /Onyx
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Parchment-Regular
    /Playbill
    /PMingLiU
    /PoorRichard-Regular
    /Ravie
    /ShowcardGothic-Reg
    /SimSun
    /SnapITC-Regular
    /Stencil
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /TempusSansITC
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Bold
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-BoldCond
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-BoldIt
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Cond
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-CondIt
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /VinerHandITC
    /Vivaldii
    /VladimirScript
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryStd-Demi
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 150
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages true
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /ColorImageResolution 150
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.40
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 150
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages true
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.40
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 1200
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages true
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Suggested"  settings for PDF Specification 4.0)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice