BanFEL: A Blockchain Based Smart Contract for Fair and Efficient Lottery Scheme
BanFEL: A Blockchain based Smart Contract for
Fair and Efficient Lottery Scheme
1st Jiasheng Li
Beijing Engineering Research Center
of Massive Language Information
Processing and Cloud Computing Application
Beijing Institute of Technology
Beijing, China
jiashengli@bit.edu.cn
2nd Zijian Zhang
Beijing Engineering Research Center
of Massive Language Information
Processing and Cloud Computing Application
Beijing Institute of Technology
Beijing, China
School of Computer Science
University of Auckland
Aukland, New Zealand
zhangzijian@bit.edu.cn
3rd Meng Li
Key Laboratory of Knowledge Engineering with Big Data
(Hefei University of Technology)
Ministry of Education
School of Computer Science
and Information Engineering
Hefei University of Technology
Anhui, China
mengli.hfut@gmail.com
Abstract—Lottery is a game with many people’s dreams. But
corruptions of lottery centers make the lottery unfair. To address
this unfair issue, fair lottery schemes have been studied for
several years. In these schemes, delay functions or aggregation
protocols can be used to generate the winning numbers fairly.
However, to the best of our knowledge, none of the existing
schemes can achieve the winning number generated randomly,
while the randomness can be verified fairly. In this article, we
first propose a [B]lockchain based sm[a]rt co[n]tract for [F]air
and [E]fficient [L]ottery (BanFEL) scheme. We further present
a winning number random generation smart contract, by which
players submit the purchased numbers and the non-tampering
property is protected. Security analysis and experiments show
that the fairness of BanFEL is protected better than the existing
works. Meanwhile, the verification cost of this scheme are at least
0.03s lower than the traditional Grumbach’s scheme between
1000 and 10000 players.
Index Terms—blockchain, fair lotteries, publicly verifiable
lotteries.
I. INTRODUCTION
Worldwide lottery sales totaled $3032 billion in 2017 [1].
However, there are many corruptions and unfairness in lottery
industry all over the world.
In 2017, the director of information technology at the Iowa
lottery company took advantage of his position to tamper
the lottery center’s random number generator and helped
This work is partially supported by National Key Research and Devel-
opment Program of China (Grant NO.2016YFB0800301) and the National
Natural Science Foundation of China (Grant NO.61772070).
his friend win the first prize of the lottery, which worth
$783,000 [2]. In the same year in China, the former director
of the China welfare lottery distribution management center
was put on trial for suspected serious disciplinary violations
[3]. The corruption news and unfair stories are caused by
the centralized lottery operation structure. Operator of lottery
center may collude with parts of players, which will cause
unfairness in lottery. It is necessary to weaken the power of
lottery centers and make the process of lottery public to all
the participants and can be verified fairly.
Blockchain and Secure Multi-Party Computation can be
used to solve the problems in lottery. Blockchain is a decen-
tralized public database based on consensus mechanism, which
has the characteristics of decentralization, transparency and
non-tampering. Every player can participate in the blockchain
network equally. Power is not controlled by central institutions
but is shared among all participants. SMC is widely used
in electronic lottery, electronic auction, secret sharing and
many other scenarios. Secure Multi-Party Computation(SMC)
is a collaborative computing problem that addresses privacy
protection in a group of untrusted participants without a trusted
third party.
In recent years, several fair lottery schemes have been
proposed. Specifically, Massimo et al. [4] proposed a lottery
smart contract on Ethereum. However, the scheme compares
all participants in pairs until a winner is produced, which
results in low efficiency. Liao et al. [5]designed a blockchain-
978-1-7281-2319-6/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
based lottery system, protects the irreversibility of buyers
submitted lottery value, but the winning numbers of lottery
still generated by the lottery center.
Also none of the existing work guarantees that the winning
number is truly random, and the participants of lottery cannot
verify the result of lottery. A fair and efficient lottery scheme
is necessary to enhance players’ confidence. On the one
hand, the winning number is generated randomly and can be
verified by all the participants rapidly. On the other hand, the
purchase records of players cannot be modified maliciously. It
is difficult to find out a random number generation algorithm
and the randomness of the number can be verified easily.
Another difficult is to protect the Non-tampering property of
the players’ purchasing records.
We proposed a BanFEL. The lottery center assigns the
deadline of purchasing and the deadline of opening that
represents the end time of players sending commitment and
opening the commitment. Players send the commitment of
ticket values before the deadline of purchasing, and open
the commitment between the deadline of purchasing and the
deadline of opening. In this case, even if a player becomes the
last one to submit ticket values, he do not know others’ ticket
value, so he cannot finish SMC. After all the commitments are
opened, lottery center can calculate the winning number by
SMC and select the winners. The contributions of the scheme
are summarized as follows.
1) We propose a winning numbers generation method of
the lottery, which ensures that the numbers are truly
random. Simultaneously, all the participants can verify
the randomness of the winning numbers rapidly.
2) We design a smart contract, by which players can submit
their purchasing request, and the records are tamper-
resistant.
3) The experimental and security analyses are performed to
verify the efficiency and security of the scheme.
II. RELATED WORK
A series of researches on smart contract and distributed
lottery protocol has been proposed in recent years.
A. Smart Contract
A blockchain platform, Ethereum [6], was proposed in 2014.
Ethereum supports the execution of smart contracts, which is
programmed by a Solidity program. Smart contracts improves
scalability of blockchain, which means that the developer
can program their own applications without the change of
blockchain. In recent years, many kinds of application based
on smart contract have been proposed, such as electricity
transaction , authority management in Internet of things(IOT)
[7] and medical data access [8].
Sikorski [9] presented a scenario includes two electricity
producers and one electricity consumer trading with each
other over a blockchain. The distributed ledger provides all
participants with realistic data produced by process flow
sheet models, which means the transactions transparent to
all the people. Azaria [8] proposed MedRec, which is a
novel,decentralized record management system to handle elec-
tronic medical records(EMRs) bu using blockchain technol-
ogy. EMRs are sensitive data, MedRec ensures the confiden-
tiality, accountability and security sharing of it.
But there is a drawback of smart contracts that it is prone
to privacy leakage. Hawk, a model of smart contract, was
proposed in 2016, compile the smart contract into a public
part and a private part and the privacy of users are preserved
when executing the smart contract. There are many schemes
based on Hawk model has been proposed.
Christidis [10] demonstrated whether the blockchain make a
good fit for the IOT sector. First, blockchain promotes the shar-
ing of services and resources in the IOT, leading to the creation
of a marketplace of services between devices. Second, smart
contract allows us to maintain a time-consuming workflows
automatically in the IOT. Peters [11] provided an overview of
blockchain’s potential to disrupt the world of banking through
facilitating global money remittance, and discussed the issues
of developing such ledger based technologies in a banking
context, which must be considered.
B. Distributed lottery protocol
The potential of the Bitcoin blockchain [12]for a distributed
random process has been examined. There has been some
lottery schemes based on blockchain has proposed but most
of them focus on the payment [13], Collateral [14] and other
aspects of the lottery. However, it has been shown that the
manipulation of presumably random bits is realistic even with
limited computational capacity and financial resources [15].
An integration of the proof of work from [16] and an alterna-
tive crypto-currency Ethereum [6] has been proposed with no
practical solution yet for a verification due to the limitation
imposed by the blockchain. There are some researches that
designed distributed lottery schemes with the thinking of
blockchain.
Grumbach et al. [17] propose a distributed aggregation
protocol for a large scale peer-to-peer lottery. It uses a data
structure, merkle tree, to generate the winning number of the
lottery. Every player is a leaf of the merkle tree, the location
of which is stipulated by the lottery center. Then, all the
players calculate the root of merkle tree together, and solve the
Byzantine General Problem to get a real number that generated
by most of honest players. Though the winning number is
generated by all players rather than the lottery center. But it
also has the limitation that only one lottery tickets can be
bought per players. And some security problems still exist in
the scheme. What matters most is the efficient of the scheme,
each player has to ask for value from other player by peer-to-
peer network for many times, which leads to the low efficiency
of the lottery.
Liao et al. [18] propose a lottery system based on blockchain
and smart contract. The process of lottery includes four phases,
which is initialization, purchasing, closing, verifying. The
system uses blockchain to ensure security payments, ticketing
and payouts in distribution environments, and guarantees that
operations will be property enforced by all interesting entities.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
And the Hawk model [19] is used to protect the privacy of
the players. However, the winning number is generated by the
code of smart contract, players cannot verify the randomness
of it. And there is no experiments to test the performance of
the proposed scheme.
III. THE PRELIMINARIES
A. Blockchain
Blockchain is a decentralized public database based on
consensus mechanism, which maintains a growing list of data
records, having a linked data structure. Transactions taken
place over a period of time are packed into a block by miners.
Every block stores the hash pointer of the previous block, so
these blocks form a link-list, which is shown in 1.
Fig. 1. Structure of blockchain
Blockchain can guarantee the tamperability of data and
transactions, which achieved by two schemes. One is decen-
tralized, all the participants have the equal power to view the
content of all blocks and get the right to package blocks.
The other is consensus mechanism, such as POW, POS and
DPOS, which is used to select the bookkeepers and ensures
all the network nodes have the same copy of the ledger. As a
consequence, data and transactions on the blockchain is hard
to be tampered.
B. Smart Contract
The emergence of smart contract makes blockchain not only
applicable to the financial fields, but also other fields, such
as lottery, electricity transaction and IoT. Smart contract is
a piece of code that runs on blockchain. 2 shows the entire
process of deploying and executing a smart contract. First,
developers program a smart contract and deploy it on the
blockchain. Then, the smart contract will create an object that
consists of data and functions when a miner packaged it into
a block. When outside events trigger the smart contract, the
smart contract object will testify the condition of executing,
and generates an unverified transaction waiting for miner to
verify it and package it into a block. Finally, smart contract
accomplish the data modification and funds transfer. It is need
to be noticed that the data of smart contract object is allowed
to be modified as soon as the condition is satisfied, however,
the records of changing data is noted on the blockchain, which
is hard to be tampered, as mentioned above.
C. Multi-Party Computation
The main idea of Multi-Party Computation(MPC) is that all
the participants work together to compute a function in a spe-
cial way, and all of them know the output of function, but they
do not know the input of others. The Multi-Party Computation
Fig. 2. Process of smart contract
used by us is illustrated as follows. Every participant submits
a point (xi,yi) to a third party, the third party will calculate a
polynomial
f(x) = a0 + a1 ∗ x+ a2 ∗ x2 + ...+ an ∗ xn (1)
that goes through all the points submitted by participants.
The third party cannot fake in this protocol, because every
participant can put their point into the polynomial for testing.
And the process of construct and verify a MPC can be depicted
by matrix.
The trusted third party can calculate the matrix equation
below to get the coefficient {a0, a1, a2, ...an} and get the
polynomial f(x).
a0
a1
...
an
 =

1 x0 ... xn
0
1 x1 ... xn
1
...
1 xn ... xn
n

−1 
y0
y1
...
yn
 (2)
Every participant can verify the MPC by verifying the equation
below.
f(xi) = yi (3)
IV. MODELS AND GOALS
A. System Model
The system model comprises (1) a lottery center, (2) a
smart contract that run on the blockchain platform and (3)
players that participant in the lottery. The notations of all the
parameters in the scheme are summarized in I
The lottery center sets the lottery rules. For simplify, we set
a simple lottery rule. Every player selects a number from 0 to
999 as the value of a purchased lottery ticket. If the number
is the same as the winning number, the player wins the prize.
If more than one player wins the prize, the money will be
divided equally and if no one wins the prize, it will be used
as the pool for the next round. The smart contract is a piece
of code that run on the blockchain platform, the code can be
seen by all the people, by which players can buy tickets or
verify the fairness of lottery.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF NOTATIONS
Lottery Center
LCPk
Public key of lottery center
LCSk
Private key of lottery center
LCaddress Address of lottery center’s account on blockchain
EndTimebuy The deadline of players submitting commitments of tickets
EndTimeopen The deadline of players opening lottery commitments
nw The winning numbers of the lottery
Players
i The unique identification of every player
PLaddressi Address of a player’s account on blockchain
vi The value that bought by a player whose address is PLaddressi
si The identification code of a player whose address is PLaddressi
PLPki
Public key of a player whose address is PLaddressi
PLSki
Private key of a player whose address is PLaddressi
Hash(.) Cryptographic hash function, e.g. SHA-3
Smart Contract
SCaddress The address of smart contract on blockchain
CommitmentList Stores all the commitments submitted by players
TicketList Stores all the tickets bought by players
Calculate(.) A function that calculate the polynomial that contains the winning number
Submit(.) A function that players submit their commitments
Open(.) A function that players open their commitments
Verify(.) A function that players verify the randomness of the winning number
B. Adversarial Model
The adversaries can be lottery center, players, or others who
do not participant in the lottery. The adversaries can see all
the contents on the blockchain, includes CommitmentList
and TicketList. And the lottery center can see all the ticket
numbers that bought by players. We assume that all the
adversaries have the polynomial computing power.
C. System Goals
Our goal is to design a fair and efficient lottery scheme,
which can ensure the fairness of lottery result and is public to
all the participants.
Goal 1: Random numbers generation.
The winning number is generated randomly, which means
that the lottery center cannot intervene the value of winning
number and the players cannot predict the value of winning
number.
Goal 2: Public verification.
All steps of lottery are public, which means all the people
can verify the fairness of the lottery.
Goal 3: Efficiency.
The scheme is efficient, which means the players can buy
lottery tickets efficiently and all the people can verify the
fairness of lottery rapidly.
V. A BLOCKCHAIN BASED SMART CONTRACT FOR FAIR
AND EFFICIENT LOTTERY SCHEME
The protocol of the communication between lottery center,
players and blockchain is shown in the 3.
A. Deploy
The lottery center deploys a smart contract into blockchain,
which is shown in 2. The process can be described as follows:
Fig. 3. Lottery transaction steps
1. Lottery center generates two pair of keys, one is
(LCPk
, LCSk
), the other is (PLPk
, PLSk
).
2. Lottery center programs the smart contract of lottery
by programming language, such as Solidity, C++. The
smart contract contains state and transaction rules, such
as ticket value of users and specified EndTimebuy and
EndTimeopen.
3. Lottery center signs the smart contract with its private
key LCSk
and sends it to the blockchain. When miners
verify the smart contract, it can be packaged to a block
successfully, as shown in the 2.
4. Once the smart contract is packaged into a block, it will
have an unique address, by which others can execute it.
The address of smart contract, SCaddress, is public to all
the people, includes players and the lottery center.
5. The lottery center sends its public key (LCPk
to
blockchain, which is used to protect the confidentiality
of communication.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
B. Register
Each player generates his own key pair (PLPki
, PLSki
),
and will receive an address PLaddressi , which is dispensed
by the blockchain platform.
C. Purchase
The process of purchasing a lottery ticket can be described
as follows:
1. Every Player chooses his (vi,si), which denotes the ticket
value and identification code.
2. Every player sends a commitment Hash(vi, si) to
the blockchain by executing the smart contract before
EndTimebuy . As shown in 2, players provide inputs to
the smart contract. If the execution condition is met, the
smart contract will be triggered and generate a list of un-
verified transactions. When miners verify the transactions,
the list of unverified transactions will be packaged into a
new block, which means the smart contract is executed
successfully.
3. After the EndTimebuy , every player has to send his
LCPk
(vi, si) to the blockchain by smart contract before
EndTimeopen, and the lottery center can get (vi, si)
with its private key LCSk
. Then, the lottery center will
calculate Hash(vi, si) automatically and see whether it
matches the hash value submitted during the previous
phase. If the Hash(vi, si) not matches the commitment
pre-submitted by player, the ticket can be abandoned.
D. Publish
The process of generating winning number and publishing
it to the blockchain can be described as follows:
1. The lottery center treat all each (Hash(vi, si),vi) that
submitted by players as a point (xi, yi). And the lottery
center trys to get a polynomial f(x) = s0+a1 ∗x+a2 ∗
x2 + ... + an ∗ xn that goes through all the points. The
method to get f(x) is Barycentric Lagrange Interpolation,
which is an improvement of Lagrange Interpolation.
Suppose there are n + 1 points (x1, yi), i ∈ (0, n + 1).
The center of gravity the weight is defined as:
wj =
1∏n
i=0,i̸=j(xj − xi)
(4)
The Barycentric Lagrange Interpolation is:
L(x) =
∑n
j=0
wj
x−xj
yj∑n
j=0
wJ
x−xj
(5)
2. The lottery center publish the polynomial to all the
participants. Since the coefficient of the polynomial is
unpredictable and truly random, so it can be treated
as the winning number. Lottery center sends result =
s0mod1000 to the blockchain by smart contract. The
result is the winning number of the lottery.
E. Verify
All the players can verify the randomness of the winning
number by validate
f(xi) = yi (6)
If the equation is not true, then the lottery center is guilty
of fraud. Players can publish the verification result to the
blockchain and the reputation of the lottery center will decline.
F. Award
Winners have to provide his PLaddressi and (vi, si) to the
lottery center, which can be verified according to the records
on the blockchain. If the winners are identified, lottery center
can present the award to the winners. Note that this step can
be accomplished on the blockchain or offline, which depends
on the players’ wishes.
VI. SECURITY ANALYSIS
A. Polynomial Construction Attack
If the polynomial f(x) does not exist, which means the
lottery has no winning number, This is not allowed in the real
lottery. And if there are more than one polynomial f(x) goes
through all the (Hash(vi, si),vi), the lottery center can choose
a result = s0mod1000 that matches the ticket value of itself
or its friends, which break the fairness of lottery.
However, the polynomial f(x) exists and is unique. Suppose
there are n + 1 players submit (Hash(vi, si),vi), which is
treated as (xi, yi), i ∈ (0, n+1). Existence and uniqueness of
polynomials can be proved as follows.
Suppose that the polynomial that we are going to construct
is
f(x) = s0 + a1 ∗ x+ a2 ∗ x2 + ...+ an ∗ xn (7)
The polynomial satisfies the condition:
f(xi) = yi (8)
The following system of linear equations is obtained:
y0 = s0 + a1 ∗ x0 + a2 ∗ x2
0 + ...+ an ∗ xn
0
y1 = s0 + a1 ∗ x1 + a2 ∗ x2
1 + ...+ an ∗ xn
1
......
yn = s0 + a1 ∗ xn + a2 ∗ x2
n + ...+ an ∗ xn
n
(9)
The determinant of the coefficients of the system is
D =
∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣
1 x0 x2
0 ... xn
0
1 x1 x2
1 ... xn
1
......
1 xn x2
n ... xn
n
∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣ (10)
D is a Vandermonde determinant. It can be known from
the properties of Vandermonde determinant that when xi =
xj(i ̸= j), D ̸= 0. So the equation set (1) has a unique
solution, which means f(x) and result of lottery is the only
certainly.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE II
EXPERIMENTAL CONFIGURATION
Lottery Center Components Configuration Parameters
CPU Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-6700U CPU @ 3.40GHz 3.41GHz
Memory 16.00GB DDR
Hard Disk 1TB HDD
OS Ubuntu 16.0.4
Operating environment of Python python 3.7.1
Anaconda, Inc
Players Configuration Parameters
CPU Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-4200U CPU @ 1.60GHz
Memory 8.00GB DDR
Hard Disk 500GB HDD
OS Windows 10 Professional
B. Random Numbers Prediction Attack
If the lottery center or players can predict the result of
lottery, they can buy the ticket that is bound to win, which
means the fairness of lottery is broken.
However, the result of lottery cannot be predicted. Since the
players only submit Hash(vi, ri) during the purchase phase,
and Hash is a one-way function, lottery center knows nothing
about vi and players know nothing about others’ vi. So both of
lottery center and players donot know (Hash(vi, ri),vi) of all
the players, which means that they cannot calculate f(x) =
s0 + a1 ∗ x + a2 ∗ x2 + ... + an ∗ xn that goes through all
the points, and they cannot get result = s0mod1000 before
EndTimeopen.
C. Bias Attack
The lottery center might try to bias the choice of winning
number. In doing so, the lottery center might have different
goals each of which violates the fairness of the lottery: for
example, it may try to pick a winning number that no user has
picked, or it may try to pick a winning number that matches
a ticket that a specific user bought.
It does not work either. Since the winning number of lottery
comes from the polynomial f(x) = s0+a1 ∗x+a2∗x2+ ...+
an ∗ xn, all players can check if this polynomial has passed
through their own (Hash(vi, ri),vi). So this makes the lottery
center cannot fake in the generation of the winning number of
lottery.
D. Forging Attack
After the winning number is chosen, a user (and especially
the lottery center)may try to forge a winning ticket. We note
that the lottery center has an extra advantage since it may
know the winning number before it is announced.
But neither the lottery center nor the players can forge
a winning ticket without the knowledge of others. Because
when you receive the award, you must submit your (vi, ri)
to blockchain by smart contact. And all the participants can
check whether it in the records of (Hash(vi, ri),vi) submitted
during Purchasing Phase.
E. Impersonating Attack
Suppose player Pi wins the lottery, but player Pj imperson-
ates Pi to submit (vi, ri) to blockchain during the Winning
Phase and accept the award that belongs to Pi.
However, anyone cannot pretend to accept an award. Be-
cause every time the players execute a smart contract, he or
she initiates a transaction on blockchain. Blockchain has a
perfect signature mechanism, and every transaction has the
initiator’s signature, which makes it impossible for others to
fake.
VII. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
A. Settings
We use Jungle Testnet, a test network for EOS, as our
blockchain platform. And a server is used as the server of
lottery center. The specific experimental environment is shown
in the II.
The length of parameters Pk,vi,ri and hash output are listed
in the III.
TABLE III
PARAMETERS INFORMATION
Parameters length(bit)
Pk 1024
vi 10
ri less than 1000
hash output 64
B. Communication Time
The communication time of this mechanism is mainly the
interaction time between the players and the blockchain. Play-
ers can submit their purchasing requests from the beginning
of lottery to EndTimebuy . We tested the communication cost
of purchasing lottery tickets between 1000 and 10000 players.
As shown in 4, the communication costs in our scheme
is higner than Grumbach’s between 1000 and 4500 players.
The reason is that players of BanFEL need to contact with
a node of blockchain and wait for the verification of miners,
but players of Grumbach’s scheme only need to contact with
other players and the lottery center. With the number of players
increasing, our scheme is less costly in communication than
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Grumbach’s, because players of Grumbach’s scheme need to
contact with a large number of other players as the number of
players is increasing, but players of BanFEL still only need to
contact with a node of blockchain and wait for the verification
of miners.
Fig. 4. Communication costs of purchasing lottery numbers
C. Computation Time
Obviously, it is difficult for the lottery center to calculate
f(x), and the time complexity is O(n2+n). But lottery centers
have high-performance servers and they can outsource the task
to other computing platforms. Besides, the real lottery systems
do not require lottery centers to disclose winning numbers
immediately after the purchases, they always have enough
time to compute the winning numbers. Therefore, this will
not affect the feasibility of the scheme. However, players have
limited computing power, and they want to be able to quickly
verify the randomness of winning numbers, that is, whether
f(x) goes through the (Hash(vi, ri),vi) of themselves. As
shown in 5, we tested the communication costs of verification
the randomness of the winning number between 1000 and
10000 players. It is obvious that the computation costs in our
scheme is lower than Grumbach’s.
VIII. CONCLUSION
This paper has proposed BanFEL. First, the winning number
is generated by the Multi-Party Computation, every player
contributes to the generation of the winning number. Second,
the process of lottery is public and the result of lottery can
be verified by all the participants. The randomness of the
lottery result is verifiable, all the players can verify their own
contribution to the winning number. The purchase records are
published on the blockchain, so the winners of lottery can
be verified by all the participants, too. Third, we list several
attacks on the lottery system and analyze how to protect
against such attacks in our scheme. Last but not the least, We
Fig. 5. Verification costs of winning number
tested the efficiency of the scheme, both the computational
time and the communication time were in a relatively low
range. Therefore, we consider the mechanism to be efficient.
REFERENCES
[1] https://gamblingcompliance.com/premium-
content/insights analysis/global-lottery-growth-eases-fy2017-amid-
draw-game-decline-europe.
[2] https://www.desmoinesregister.com/story/news/investigations
/2017/06/03/iowa-lottery-rigging-scam-shook-gaming-
industry/362328001/
[3] http://baijiahao.baidu.com/s?id=1616730169665425580&wfr=
spider&for=pc
[4] Bartoletti, Massimo, Tiziana Cimoli, and Roberto Zunino. ”Fun with
Bitcoin smart contracts.” International Symposium on Leveraging Ap-
plications of Formal Methods. Springer, Cham, 2018.
[5] Liao, Da-Yin, and Xuehong Wang. ”Applications of Blockchain Tech-
nology to Logistics Management in Integrated Casinos and Entertain-
ment.” Informatics. Vol. 5. No. 4. Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing
Institute, 2018.
[6] Wood, G.: Ethereum: A Secure Decentralised Generalised Transaction
Ledger, (2014). http://gavwood.com/paper.pdf
[7] Huh, Seyoung, Sangrae Cho, and Soohyung Kim. ”Managing IoT
devices using blockchain platform.” 2017 19th international conference
on advanced communication technology (ICACT). IEEE, 2017.
[8] Azaria, Asaph, et al. ”Medrec: Using blockchain for medical data access
and permission management.” 2016 2nd International Conference on
Open and Big Data (OBD). IEEE, 2016.
[9] Sikorski, Janusz J., Joy Haughton, and Markus Kraft. ”Blockchain
technology in the chemical industry: Machine-to-machine electricity
market.” Applied Energy 195 (2017): 234-246.
[10] Christidis, Konstantinos, and Michael Devetsiiotis. ”Blockchains and
smart contracts for the internet of things.” Ieee Access 4 (2016): 2292-
2303.
[11] Peters, Gareth W., and Efstathios Panayi. ”Understanding modern
banking ledgers through blockchain technologies: Future of transaction
processing and smart contracts on the internet of money.” Banking
beyond banks and money. Springer, Cham, 2016. 239-278.
[12] Nakamoto, S.: Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System, (2008).
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[13] Hu, Kexin, and Zhenfeng Zhang. ”Fast Lottery-Based Micropayments
for Decentralized Currencies.” Australasian Conference on Information
Security and Privacy. Springer, Cham, 2018.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[14] Miller, Andrew, and Iddo Bentov. ”Zero-collateral lotteries in Bitcoin
and Ethereum.” 2017 IEEE European Symposium on Security and
Privacy Workshops (EuroSPW). IEEE, 2017.
[15] Pierrot, C., and Wesolowski, B.: Malleability of the blockchain’s entropy.
In: ArcticCrypt 2016, pp. 1–20
[16] Lenstra, A.K., and Wesolowski, B.: A random zoo: sloth, unicorn, and
trx. NIST Workshop on Elliptic Curve Cryptography Standards 3, 2015.
[17] Grumbach, Stéphane, and Robert Riemann. ”Distributed random process
for a large-scale peer-to-peer lottery.” IFIP International Conference on
Distributed Applications and Interoperable Systems. Springer, Cham,
2017.
[18] Liao, Da-Yin, and Xuehong Wang. ”Design of a blockchain-based
lottery system for smart cities applications.” 2017 IEEE 3rd International
Conference on Collaboration and Internet Computing (CIC). IEEE,
2017.
[19] Kosba, Ahmed, et al. ”Hawk: The blockchain model of cryptography and
privacy-preserving smart contracts.” 2016 IEEE symposium on security
and privacy (SP). IEEE, 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:20 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.