EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
SPECIAL SECTION ON COLLABORATION FOR INTERNET OF THINGS
Received January 12, 2019, accepted January 30, 2019, date of publication February 8, 2019, date of current version March 1, 2019.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2898265
EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for
Collaborative Data Management in
Mobile Healthcare Systems
XIAOHUAN LI1,2, (Member, IEEE), XUMIN HUANG 3, CHUNHAI LI2,
RONG YU 3, (Member, IEEE), AND LEI SHU 4,5, (Senior Member, IEEE)
1School of Electronic and Information Engineering, Beihang University, Beijing 100083, China
2School of Information and Communication, Guilin University of Electronic Technology, Guilin 541004, China
3School of Automation, Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China
4College of Engineering, Nanjing Agricultural University, Nanjing 210095, China
5School of Engineering, University of Lincoln, Lincoln LN67TS, U.K.
Corresponding author: Rong Yu (yurong@ieee.org)
This work was supported in part by the Programs of NSFC under Grant 61422201, Grant 61370159, and Grant 61762030, in part by the
Science and Technology Program of Guangdong Province under Grant 2015B010129001, in part by the Guangxi Natural Science
Foundation under Grant 2016GXNSFGA380002 and Grant 2018JJD170022, and in part by the Key Science and Technology Project of
Guangxi under Grant AA17204009 and Grant AA18242021.
ABSTRACT With the wide application of mobile healthcare systems, the total amount of healthcare
data is ever increasing rapidly as users interact with healthcare service providers frequently. This leads
to a challenging task to manage healthcare data. Existing work mainly pay attention to centralized and
blockchain-based mechanisms. But they cannot adapt to the increasing amount of global healthcare data and
suffer from complex application challenges, respectively. Decentralized and collaborative data management
assisted by edge computing exhibits major advantages in improving overall system performance. We present
a secure and efficient data management system named as EdgeCare for mobile healthcare systems. Local
authorities are established to schedule edge servers for processing healthcare data and facilitating data
trading. A hierarchical architecture with collaboration is designed for feasible implementation of EdgeCare.
After that, we investigate secure data uploading and sharing in the system. We use an electronic medical
record to show how healthcare data is processed with security considerations. We also conduct the Stackel-
berg game-based optimization algorithm to approach the optimal incentive mechanism for a data collector
and users in the fair decentralized data trading. The numerical results with security analysis are provided
to demonstrate that EdgeCare offers effective solutions to protect healthcare data, and support efficient data
trading.
INDEX TERMS Public healthcare, collaborative work, internet of things, distributed management.
I. INTRODUCTION
Recently, mobile healthcare systems have been applied
widely because of the advances in biotechnologies, infor-
mation technologies and software engineering. Due to per-
vasive e-health services, billions of personal healthcare data
records are generated annually [1]. Meanwhile, users interact
with healthcare service providers frequently in current appli-
cations, e.g., mobile telemedicine, personalized medicine
and emergency response [2]. Towards secure interaction,
The associate editor coordinating the review of this manuscript and
approving it for publication was Joel Rodrigues.
a tremendous amount of healthcare data should be collected
and processed well. Besides, healthcare data is a valuable
commodity for public health agencies, academic researchers
and pharmaceutical companies to promote service provision,
including disease prevention and control, healthcare-related
researches and drug development, via big data analytics [3].
Here, a typical commercial case of data mining in mobile
healthcare is about Google. To develop a diagnostic app,
the subsidiary Deep Mind collects and analyses healthcare
data records regarding to 1.6 million patients in hospitals
of London, UK [4]. Before operating effective data mining,
third parties need to gain authorized access to healthcare
VOLUME 7, 2019
2169-3536 
 2019 IEEE. Translations and content mining are permitted for academic research only.
Personal use is also permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
22011
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1819-5398
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9042-7256
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-6700-9347
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
data. Data trading is necessary to negotiate with users as
data owners. As a consequence, there exist critical issues to
manage numerous healthcare data in a secure and efficient
manner.
To tackle the problems, some of existing work pay atten-
tion to centralized data management with cloud computing
in mobile healthcare systems. Centralized data management
leads to high-latency response and excessive workloads when
the central authority continuously processes a lot of health-
care data over time [5]. The central authority also easily
suffers from typical single point failure, DDoS attakcs and
remote hijacking attacks. So a majority of work have begun
to focus on decentralized data management for performance
improvement in recent years. In particular, they leveraged
the blockchain technology which is a peer-to-peer distributed
ledger to prevent any repudiation in the trustless environment
and achieve totally self-organized and transparent manage-
ment by depending on a set of consensus nodes. They aimed
to facilitate authentic, verifiable, and traceable data manage-
ment in healthcare domain.
But most of the blockchain-based healthcare systems are
integrated with cloud computing. Healthcare data is still
mainly stored in the remote cloud [6], [7]. This cannot sup-
port prompt data transfer and real-time data access. Besides,
we consider that there exist crucial basic problems, e.g.,
node selection, consensus mechanism and blockchain inter-
operability, needed to be strictly solved for fully consider-
ate deployment of the blockchain-based healthcare systems.
Due to initial complexity and application challenges, current
work mostly pay attention to future outlook [8], architecture
design [9] and prototype implementation [10] in the systems.
Moreover, practical data trading is seldom investigated to
build a healthcare data market in the researches. Thus, we are
motivated to introduce edge computing in decentralized data
management and simultaneously consider data trading for the
improvement of overall system performance.
Decentralized and collaborative data management assisted
by edge computing shows great advantages in the facilitation
of mobile healthcare systems. Edge computing has been envi-
sioned as a crucial enabling technology to enhance computing
environment by deploying ubiquitous communications and
proximal cloud computing capability, and to serve users in
vicinity. The core concept, applications and key technolo-
gies about edge computing are presented in the white paper
published by the standards organization ETSI [11]. Edge
computing reduces latencies, mitigates communication jitter
and enables mobility support [12]. Edge servers can execute
local network management tasks in different scenarios. For
example, they are used to realize distributed reputation man-
agement in vehicular networks [13] and promote decentral-
ized electric vehicle discharging/charging management [14].
In this paper, we propose that in a region, a Local Authori-
ties (LA) assigns edge servers to perform local data manage-
ment tasks. With the help of LAs, different network entities
are collaborative to accomplish network-wide data manage-
ment, ranging from data transmission, storage, access, trading
to mining. The advantages about the proposal for mobile
healthcare systems are summarized as follows.
• Real-time system response: Healthcare data is transmit-
ted to edge servers for prompt processing with lower
response time. Users retrieve raw data, search data anal-
ysis results and participate in data trading on demand.
• Balancing workload allocation: Geo-distributed LAs
cooperate with each other to process healthcare data syn-
chronously when necessary. With workload balancing,
scalable network management is supported to cope with
the exponential data growth.
• Reliable data protection: In edge computing environ-
ment, data transmission, access and storage are local-
ized. Healthcare data is easier to be protected well as
data processing occurs in closer proximity to users [15].
• Convenient data trading: Pervasive connections provide
data collectors and data owners convenience in carrying
out data trading. The interaction among them also bene-
fits from the coordination of edge servers.
To achieve the advantages, we present a secure and effi-
cient data management system assisted by edge comput-
ing, named as EdgeCare, for mobile healthcare systems.
We extend our work in [16], and focus on a new scheme
adapting to edge computing paradigm but also study data
trading. But designing a decentralized and collaborative data
management system for healthcare applications is indeed
a challenging task, especially when considering a large-
scale mobile network environment and the practical issues of
implementation.
We realize that critical issues should be addressed for
guaranteeing security and efficiency of network implemen-
tation. First, architecture design is the fundamental step
to ensure that related network entities are included and
scheduled specifically for network-wide data management.
Second, secure data uploading and customized access control
are essential to enrich user satisfaction. To this end, protocol
presentation with basic cryptographic techniques is required
in the system. Last but not the least, for large-scale data
trading, incentive mechanisms are necessary to reward data
owners and stimulate them to participate in data trading.
Considering the specific challenging problems of data
management in mobile healthcare systems, our work exhibits
a practically viable solution from three systematic levels.
More specifically, a hierarchical architecture is designed for
wide application of EdgeCare. After that, we use electronic
medical record (EMR) to design a use-centric EMR manage-
ment scheme so that EMRs are uploaded and shared accord-
ing to authorization granted by individual users. Furthermore,
we consider a revenue maximization problem for an external
data miner as a data collector that purchases access privileges
of healthcare data from local users to execute a data mining
task. The interaction between the data miner and users is
formulated by Stackelberg game to approach feasible data
trading environment.
We summarize the main contributions of this paper as
follows.
22012 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
• We propose the hierarchical architecture of EdgeCare
to ensure the feasibility of secure and efficient data
management in the decentralized mobile environment.
• We elaborately design the EMR management scheme
and corresponding protocol workflows to handle
healthcare data processing with security and privacy
requirements.
• We conduct the Stackelberg game based optimization
algorithm to approach the optimal incentive mechanism
for the data collector and the users, which are involved
in the fair decentralized data trading.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section II
presents the related work. In Section III, we propose the
three-layer architecture for EdgeCare. We design the consid-
erate EMR management scheme which supports secure data
uploading and sharing in Section IV. As for the decentralized
data trading scheme, we present the Stackelberg game model
in Section V. Security analysis with numerical results are
offered to demonstrate overall performance of EdgeCare in
Section VI. Finally, Section VII concludes this paper.
II. RELATED WORK
A. CENTRALIZED DATA MANAGEMENT
Traditionally, centralized data management with cloud com-
puting is first studied for mobile healthcare systems. Thi-
lakanathan et al. [17] proposed a centralized cloud platform
that allows doctors to monitor patients and share healthcare
data with confidentiality. Similarly, the work in [18] consid-
ered utilizing a powerful cloud platform to collect, process
and store healthcare data via unified standards. The platform
is regarded as a fully trusted and central authority for all
the network entities. Alternatively, Li et al. [19] focused on
a semi-trusted cloud computing environment and tried to
exploit attribute-based encryption techniques for achieving
fine-grained data access control and avoiding privacy expo-
sure to unauthorized parties. In particular, multiple author-
ities are employed to govern a disjoint subset of user role
attributes.
As stated above, centralized data management cannot
adapt to the increasing amount of the global healthcare data.
In the schemes, overload states and intolerant processing
delay are frequently resulted in when continuously process-
ing a large volume of incoming healthcare data. We also
find that due to the assigned core functionalities, the central
authority poses potential security threats. The central author-
ity is vulnerable to the attacks, including single point failure,
DDoS attakcs and remote hijacking attacks.
B. BLOCKCHAIN-BASED DECENTRALIZED
DATA MANAGEMENT
Recently, some studies focus on exploiting the blockchain
technology to enable decentralized data management in
mobile healthcare systems. Owing to transparency and share-
ability, blockchain is investigated to ensure data integrity
and traceability for facilitating secure data access, shar-
ing and storage in a decentralized manner. Reference [8]
presented several healthcare use cases of blockchain to imple-
ment diverse healthcare services with security guarantee, e.g.,
public health surveillance and medication prescribing. The
concept of blockchain in healthcare is growing interests.
To cope with heterogeneous medical data, Kaur et. al [6]
explored to combine blockchain with cloud computing for
secure storage and sharing without involving third parties.
The authors also emphasized the proposal still remains chal-
lenging as healthcare service providers, medical providers
and organisations, public health agencies and governments
need to work together and be encouraged with policy
enforcement.
Furthermore, the work in [9] paid attention to developing a
blockchain based access control for improving the migration
of medical records to cloud-based platforms. More specifi-
cally, the permissioned blockchain technology was employed
to permit anyone to access EMRs only after identity verifica-
tion and membership authentication. As a consequence, data
sharing was implemented with scalability, lower overheads
and privacy protection. Similar work can be found in [7],
which introduced a specific blockchain node and normal
nodes with a veto power and general voting rights, respec-
tively, to jointly determine whether uploading healthcare data
is valid and acceptable. The goal was to ensure that any
modifications to existing healthcare data can be validated and
traced. Moreover, some prototype implementation about the
blockchain-based systems were proposed subsequently, e.g.,
MedRec [10] and smart contract based clinical trials [20].
However, most of the blockchain-based schemes cannot
support prompt data transfer and real-time data access for
future mobile healthcare systems because of leveraging cloud
storage. In addition, due to inherent complexity and potential
risks about blockchain deployment, it is still a challenging
task to smoothly implement practical systems even proto-
types of the schemes in the real-world environment. More-
over, practical data trading is seldom investigated to build a
healthcare data market in the researches.
Alternatively, we propose EdgeCare, where edge com-
puting is integrated for decentralized data management and
data trading to improve the overall system performance.
Compared to blockchain-based healthcare systems, Edge-
Care has predominant advantage in supporting large-scale
data collection, ubiquitous data access and localized data
processing. Besides, the deployment cost of EdgeCare could
be moderate for the network operator.
III. HIERARCHICAL ARCHITECTURE
A. EDGE COMPUTING IN EDGECARE
To fulfill decentralized and collaborative data management,
edge computing plays a critical role for the realization of
EdgeCare. Due to proximal deployment of and seamless
connection to edge servers, healthcare data is convenient
to be gathered in local storage, promoting data collection
and access with fleet response. Meanwhile, ubiquitous edge
servers offer geo-distributed LAs with powerful managing
capability to locally process healthcare data, ranging from
VOLUME 7, 2019 22013
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
preprocessing to analysis. If necessary, edge servers can also
be scheduled as proxy servers of external data miners to
negotiate with users as data owners in data trading, ultimately
building a feasible and decentralized healthcare data market.
We offer more details about the utilization of edge comput-
ing to facilitate users, LAs and data miners in EdgeCare as
follows.
Owing to local storage, users retrieve the raw data within
low latency. Users are encouraged to log in EdgeCare at any
time and view the requests of data trading from data miners
timely. Towards secure data trading, users can also assign
edge servers to modify individual healthcare data and remove
sensitive information in traded data. Then data trading is
supported well to build a feasible healthcare data market,
which realizes data utility and avoids privacy disclosure
simultaneously.
By scheduling multiple edge servers, LAs are estab-
lished and collaborative to manage network-wide healthcare
data in a fully decentralized manner. Managing tasks are
accomplished with on-demand resource provision. In Edge-
Care, complex processing procedure caused by handling
with healthcare data is shifted to edge servers, achieving
fast response to users. Edge servers are proximal to col-
lect, analyse and store valid healthcare data. Besides, super-
vised access control is easily enabled for permitting external
entities, e.g., healthcare service providers and data miners,
to access healthcare data with security considerations.
With authorized access to healthcare data, data miners run
a variety of data mining algorithms in edge servers. The
exploitation of edge servers is helpful to accelerate execution
time and increase accuracy rate of data mining procedures.
When negotiating with users in data trading, the decision-
making capability of data miners can be enhanced by renting
proxy edge servers to support the interaction with users.
B. THREE-LAYER ARCHITECTURE FOR EDGECARE
For elaborate architecture design, we introduce the motiva-
tion to design a mobile healthcare system with decentral-
ized and collaborative data management, consisting of the
following three folds. First, localized data storage should
be realized for proximal data transfer and convenient data
access. Second, direct and distributed data processing at the
network edge is required to lower system response and bal-
ance managing workload. Third, necessary user interfaces
can be designed well to improve user experience when they
register and customize user-centric access control strategies.
To this end, we propose a hierarchical architecture for
large-scale application of EdgeCare. As shown in Fig. 1,
the architecture is compromised of three layers: user layer,
edge layer and core layer. The layers work independently
and they are also jointly connected to promote overall system
performance. By using the architecture, a network operator is
convenient to deploy functional network entities in different
layers accordingly. They are uniformly scheduled for decen-
tralized data management with high scalability, reliability and
traceability. The essential healthcare data is orderly collected,
FIGURE 1. Three-layer architecture for EdgeCare.
separately processed with low latency, and authorized to
access with permission. As a consequence, real-time system
response, scalable data processing, reliable security protec-
tion and convenient data trading are supported, achieving
network evolution for meeting the requirements of future
mobile healthcare systems.
In particular, the architecture can be applied to manage
healthcare data for users belonging to diverse healthcare facil-
ities, e.g., hospital and private clinic in several regions. Here,
a region may range from a town to a city when the network
operator determines the number and capability of all the LAs
as a whole.
The presented architecture aims to orchestrate different
network entities to cooperate with each other for collabo-
rative data management. More specifically, in the bottom
layer, different kinds of healthcare data are collected and
may open to healthcare service providers for accessing and
sharing. As for the middle layer, an LA employs multiple
edge servers and communicates with local users and other
LAs to support localized data processing. Meanwhile, data
miners are allowed to access to healthcare data and perform
data mining tasks after data trading with users. There exists
a remote cloud in the top layer. A central authority resides
in the remote cloud and holds complete identity information
of all the network entities. The identity information with a
whole mapping relationship table of the network entities is
stored in a global database. It also supervises and coordinates
geo-distributed LAs for cooperation when necessary. We pro-
vide more details about the hierarchical architecture with the
network entities as follows.
1) USER LAYER
Nowadays, mobile healthcare systems support a variety of
applications and numerous healthcare data is generated dur-
ing service provision. On one hand, for personalized health
guidance, a common user may simultaneously own serval
22014 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
healthcare service providers. Massive EMRs about the user
are stored in different hospitals, clinics and medical institu-
tions [21]. Besides, during the disease diagnosis and treat-
ment, related personnel consisting of doctors, physicians and
fitness instructors, set various electronic medical records.
The extensive adoption of wearable devices also promotes
the consistent explosion of healthcare data. Diverse types of
healthcare data is collected and uploaded when users utilize
wearable devices to detect physical and mental health sta-
tus. The advanced wearable devices generally include wrist
devices, smart gloves and smart clothes. They measure heart
rate, walking distance, body temperature, blood pressure and
so on, and generate corresponding sensor data [22].
Ultimately, both the sensor data and EMRs are gathered
together for further analysis in EdgeCare. They are packed
and temporarily saved in portable devices (e.g., mobile
phones and computers) via existing wired or wireless com-
munication protocols, such as bluetooth, ZigBee and WiFi.
When necessary, users transmit them to specified edge
servers with the help of wiredly connected access points
(e.g., base station and WiFi AP). Before being transmitted,
raw healthcare data is processed for secure data transmis-
sion and reliable identity authentication. So cryptographic
techniques such as encryption and signature are required in
EdgeCare.
2) EDGE LAYER
With the establishment of LAs, crucial network functionali-
ties of EdgeCare are concentrated to the network edge. Facing
with large-scale healthcare data, the collaboration among sev-
eral LAs is also proposed for a higher efficiency. On one hand,
the whole network is divided into multiple regions and each
LA has the managing scope to process uploaded healthcare
data. In this way, total managing workloads are balanced.
More healthcare data can be processed simultaneously. This
greatly reduces overall delay, particularly when processing
massive healthcare data. We further explain the rationale as
follows.
• Proximal connection to adjacent LAs offers real benefit
to reduce transmission latency for fast collecting and
retrieving healthcare data.
• Multiple LAs cooperate with each other to tackle
with network-wide data management, lessening queuing
delay for local users in each region.
• Owing to the utilization of multiple LAs, EdgeCare
becomes a typical multi-server queuing system. This
advantage greatly lowers the potential congestion proba-
bility, and promotes the processing procedure with high
reliability.
Moreover, when an LA is continuously busy for task exe-
cution, computing capability of local edge servers may not
be sufficient. At this time, idle edge servers belonging to
other LAs can be scheduled on demand to support the LA
via existing techniques, e.g., remote procedure call. Under
the circumstances, real-time communication and seamless
cooperation among the LAs are exactly necessary.
As for a single LA, it can schedules edge servers to execute
regular tasks about localized data management in a region.
Supervised by the LA, healthcare data is shared to others
including healthcare service providers and data miners. For
data trading, data miners invite users to a healthcare data
market. The data miners acquire access privileges granted
by users and then are authorized to apply mining algorithms
to healthcare data for extracting useful information. To sum
up, the LA supports regular operations of users, healthcare
service providers and data miners as follows:
• User Register : Before joining EdgeCare, users should
register with valid identities, which are used for identify-
ing the owner of healthcare data. After legal registration,
an LA acts as trusted authority to generate and distribute
public/private key pairs, digital signature and certificates
for local users. The registration information is uploaded
to the central authority in the remote cloud.
• Data Storage: As as a data repository in a region,
the LA stores incoming raw healthcare data in local stor-
age according to specified compressed and encrypted
format. Besides, history information about data trans-
mission, data processing, data access and data stor-
age is recorded orderly. By searching the information,
the traceability of happening events in EdgeCare is
ensured. The system is convenient to investigate once
any cases caused by security attacks and privacy leakage
appear.
• Data Preprocessing: Raw healthcare data is collected
and should be preprocessed first. In EdgeCare, appro-
priate data preprocessing is necessary due to various
data sources, formats and structures of receiving health-
care data from different healthcare applications. For
data miners, robust and complex approaches about data
cleaning, integration, reduction and normalization can
be implemented well by assigning edge servers. More-
over, when data miners are granted to access to health-
care data, the LA also helps modify data to hide sensitive
information for users, instead of directly releasing data
to data miners.
• Data Analysis: In edge computing environment,
healthcare service providers and data miners are of
great capability for processing massive healthcare data
dynamically. They can combine real-time analysis
and offline analysis according to different scenarios.
In intensive care, collecting healthcare data should be
processed quickly. Analysis results are forwarded to
related personnel for low-latency response to emergency
situations. As for those services with ever-lasting mon-
itoring procedure, e.g., health planning and medical
recommendation, offline analysis may be adequate for
service provision in EdgeCare.
• Access Control: To improve access efficiency, EdgeCare
provides a well-designed and user-centric interface for
local users to achieve full control of their healthcare data.
In EdgeCare, users can independently assign/revoke
access privileges for/from others. After data trading,
VOLUME 7, 2019 22015
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
as the owner of healthcare data, users customize and
update flexible access policies for all the related per-
sonnel, e.g., data miners, based on the relationships with
them. According to given access policies, the LA checks
whether there exist unauthorized access to healthcare
data.
• User Revocation: Revocation operation is activated in
special situations. For example, one user has malicious
behavior in the system and is punished by the LA to
remove its account or one user would like to be man-
aged by other LAs. Such an on-demand user revocation
operation is to support necessary change of management
ownership. In particular, the LA feedbacks a revocation
notification to both the user and the central authority.
3) CORE LAYER
The central authority acts as the top security manager and
is responsible for ensuring network-wide security protection.
In practice, the central authority is a public and authentic
organization fully trusted by all the network entities. With
the highest priority of data management, the central authority
records and accesses identity information about all the net-
work entities in EdgeCare. The central authority also records
the corresponding mapping relationships among them in
mobile healthcare systems. The global database is built to
maintain and update a large number of recording information.
In addition, via the Internet, the central authority acts as
a network orchestrator to monitor whether each LA works
normally and coordinate them for required cooperation when
necessary. The functionality of network supervision and coor-
dination are executed in a pre-active way. This means that all
the responses and actions of the LAs are triggered by a pre-
programmed global module in the central authority.
The involvement of the core layer significantly improves
the working efficiency of the system, especially in prompt
response to fault diagnosis and network attacks. State super-
vision for the LAs is supported to ensure each LA works
safely. If an LA becomes faulted, the LA could be rapidly
identified and replaced in time. Impersonation attacks caused
by compromised LAs would be timely removed to overcome
security threats. After identity authentication and real-time
monitoring, behavior of all the LAs is of transparent trust-
worthiness. In short, with the presence of the core layer,
the geo-distributed LAs are able to manage healthcare data
in different regions in a highly efficient and intelligent way.
To perform the above operations, the central authority
should be equipped with tamper-resistant and powerful hard-
ware. So it is generally deployed in the remote cloud, and thus
utilizes sufficient cloud resources to accomplish the tasks.
IV. SECURE DATA UPLOADING AND SHARING
Towards pervasive healthcare services, a key problem of
EdgeCare is how to enable secure data uploading and sharing.
In this paper, we consider basic protocol design for EdgeCare
when users upload their helathcare data and share the data
with others. For simplicity, we focus on a daily scenario that
FIGURE 2. EMR management scheme for EdgeCare with security
guarantee.
TABLE 1. Notations and descriptions.
a patient authorizes several doctors to access his EMRs. EMR
is a special healthcare data for patients and it is vital to
guarantee EMR uploading and sharing with security and pri-
vacy protection in EdgeCare. Thus, we propose a considerate
EMR management scheme wherein EMRs are uploaded and
shared in a strictly secure way. To summarize, the scheme is
compromised of four stages, as shown in Fig. 2. The notations
used in the scheme are listed in Table 1.
A. INITIALIZATION STAGE
A patient Pi and two doctorDk ,Dk+1 first apply to the system
for valid registration. After registration, they are issued with a
public/private key pair and legal certificate, respectively. The
identity information is also uploaded by an LA to the central
authority for information record.
B. DIAGNOSIS STAGE
Dk diagnoses Pi and creates the corresponding EMR to Pi.
The diagnosis-related data with the doctor’s identity, hospital
22016 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
name (Hname), department name (Dname), and diagnosis
time is saved into the EMR. The patient confirms the gen-
erated EMR and finally, the doctor records the EMR for
backuping. More specifically, the steps related to the data
processing procedure are as follows.
• Step 1: After diagnosis, Dk generates the diagnosis
record (indicated by dr) with specified content and treat-
ment serial number (SN ). For authentication, Dk signs
the diagnosis record and shows the signed result with
the certificate to Pi. The result is encrypted with the
public key PKPi and attach with the current time slot
Timestamp.
dr = {content||SN },
where SN = hash(Hname||Dname||Dk ||Pi).
Dk → Pi :
result = EPKPi (Sign(SKDk , dr)||CertDk ||Timestamp)
• Step 2:Pi decrypts the result, checks the diagnosis record
and verifies the signature fromDk . Pi confirms the result
to signs it and replies to the doctor.
Pi→ Dk :
reply = EPKDk (Sign(SKPi , Sign(SKDk , dr))||CertPi
||Timestamp).
Finally, the EMR with dual signature is sent by the
patient to the LA for data update.
• Step 3: Dk receives the reply, and then uploads a map-
ping list to private servers of the hospital for backuping.
This mapping list consists of the identity of doctor and
patient, department name and the treatment serial num-
ber: Dname Dk Pi SN .
C. EMR UPLOADING STAGE
We assume that the patient belongs to LAj. The EMR upload-
ing stage is introduced as follows.
• Step 1:Pi encrypts the EMRwith dual signature by using
public key of LA j, and sends it to the LA.
Pi→ LAj :
EMR = EPKLAj (Sign(SKPi , Sign(SKDk , dr))||CertPi
||Timestamp).
• Step 2: LAj realizes the arrival of a new EMR and
decrypts it to verify legal identity of the patient first.
Then LAj realizes the EMR has been signed by the user,
and stores the EMR locally but also updates information
record of the healthcare data. Meanwhile, LAj finds
the attached signature from Dk . LAj searches whether
the doctor has been assigned any access privileges by the
patient.When there exists no, the LA sends a query to the
patient and ask whether the doctor should own a certain
access privilege from him.
• Step 3: Based on individual purpose, the patient can
refuse to assign or directly set a given access privilege
for the doctor by logging into EdgeCare.
D. EMR SHARING STAGE
EMRs are critically important information for diagnosis and
treatment in moible healthcare systems. The information is
also private for individual. And the private information are
generally required to share among different medical person-
nel for improving the quality of healthcare services [23].
In this paper, we aim to facilitate EMR sharing in EdgeCare
with necessary security considerations.
When the patient is treated by a new doctor Dk+1, the doc-
tor may review a set of EMRs regarding to Pi for further
diagnosis. But the patient has not ever assigned any access
privileges for the doctor. The doctor should be permitted by
the patient to access to the healthcare data temporarily. At this
time, EMR sharing procedure is shown as follows.
• Step 1: Dk+1 sends a request to the patient for access-
ing to a set of EMRs {EMR}PiDk+1 within the valid
time. The accessing request from Dk+1 is denoted as
AQ({EMR}PiDk+1 , validtime). We express the accessing
request transmitted from the doctor to the patient as
follows.
Dk+1→ Pi :
request = EPKPi (Sign(SKDk+1 ,AQ({EMR}
Pi
Dk+1
,
validtime))||CertDk+1 ||Timestamp).
• Step 2:Pi receives the request and also verifies the signa-
ture from Dk+1. The patient realizes the legal identity of
the doctor and independently chooses whether to offer
the permission. When the patient gives out a positive
permission, two replies including perm1 and perm2 are
fed back to Dk+1 and LAj, respectively.
Pi→ Dk+1 :
perm1 = EPKDk+1 (Sign(SKPi , Sign(SKDk+1 ,AQ(
{EMR}Dk+1 , validtime))||CertPi ||Timestamp)
Pi→ LAj :
perm2 = EPKLAj (Sign(SKPi , Sign(SKDk+1 ,AQ(
{EMR}PiDk+1 , validtime))||CertPi ||Timestamp).
• Step 3: When the permission perm1 is received by the
doctor, Dk+1 requests for accessing to specified EMRs
({EMR}PiDk+1 ) stored in LAj. The external request er is
expressed as follows.
Dk+1→ LAj :
er = EPKLAj (Sign(SKDk+1 ,AQ({EMR}
Pi
Dk+1
,
validtime))||CertDk+1 ||Timestamp).
LAj realizes that the doctor has been granted by Pi with
the verification of dual signature in perm2. Thus, the LA
admits that Dk+1 has temporary privilege to read the
EMRs of Pi. In the meantime, the LA also supervises
whether the temporary access follows the principle of
presetting privilege within the given time span. Over-
all, the EMRs are shared to the legitimate doctor with
accountability in EdgeCare.
VOLUME 7, 2019 22017
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
V. DECENTRALIZED DATA TRADING
A. BASIC PRINCIPLES IN DECENTRALIZED DATA TRADING
The primary concern for users in data trading is how to
avoid privacy violation and get enough compensations when
releasing individual healthcare data to data miners. On one
hand, users should take action to make their individual data
only accessible to data miners with granted access privi-
leges. Besides, sensitive information need to be protected
well for privacy preservation. For users, sensitive informa-
tion attached to raw healthcare data may consist of users’
name, ID card numbers, cell phone number and so on [24].
Nowadays, for data anonymity, desensitization is widely used
to remove or modify identifiers and quasi-identifiers [25].
In this way, sensitive information is excluded in data publish-
ing for achieving privacy-preserving data mining.
As for a data miner, it would like to collect interesting
healthcare data from users for performing a data mining
task. To accomplish a data collection task across the whole
network, the data miner may rent distributed edge server as
the proxy server to negotiate with users for carrying out data
trading in each region. This exactly promotes decentralized
data trading. At the same time, the data miner needs to reward
local users as data owners with incentive. The incentive may
be regarded as monetary compensations for potential risks in
privacy disclosure and economic income to stimulate users in
data trading [26].
According to the above principles, decentralized data trad-
ing between users and data miners is facilitated by utilizing
edge servers in EdgeCare. First, a trusted edge server in
an LA acts as a broker of a data miner and realizes the
request about data collection. The proxy edge server helps
seek appropriate data owners associated with interesting data.
Second, local users mandate edge servers to prevent unau-
thorized access and perform data modification operations
for desensitization before publishing healthcare data to the
data miner. In the meantime, edge servers notify data owners
with the related information about the request of data trading
by proximally communicating with them. Edge servers help
transmit reward policy to the data owners. Finally, interesting
healthcare data is gathered by the proxy edge server. The
data miner can directly assign the proxy edge servers for
data mining and take the data mining results to individual
servers [27]. In short, edge servers are crucial for coordinating
decentralized data trading among both sides of users and the
data miner in EdgeCare.
B. STACKELBERG GAME APPROACH
An incentive mechanism is necessary when encouraging
users to participate in data trading. In the incentive mecha-
nism, reward policy is set for stimulating data owners man-
aged by an LA to offer access privileges about their healthcare
data. Facing with various reward policies, users response with
different participation levels in data trading according to their
acquired utilities.
Next, we formulate a utility function of one user in data
trading. The utility function is related to a trade-off between
privacy gains and economic benefits resulted by participating
in data trading [28]. We consider that a user i owns several
data records interested by a data miner j. The user becomes
an appropriate data provider for the data miner in the region.
The proxy edge server represents the data miner to send a
request of data trading to the user. User i needs to determine
the participation level in terms of the amount of data records
granted to data miner j, which is denoted as x ji . x
j
i is a vital
decision variable to influence the final utility of user i.
When the user contributes more data records to the data
miner, user i clearly obtains more rewards, x jir
j
i . r
j
i is the
rewards given by data miner j for accessing to a data record
of user i. However, with the increasing amount of traded data,
the risk of privacy disclosure is increased potentially. The
increasing risk means that a compromised data miner may
further infer, estimate and recover sensitive information based
on more released data records [29]. This leads to privacy
losses for the user. In turn, user i obtains privacy gains by
reducing the amount of data records accessed by the data
miner. To summarize, the utility function of user i consists
of two aspects: subjective privacy gains and actual economic
benefits, which is expressed by
U j
i = wi log(Xi − x
j
i + 1)+ r ji x
j
i , r
j
i > ρidj (1)
Here,wi is the individual willingness for strict data protection
rather than data trading [30]. The value of wi is related with
the specified attitude for the kind of data records. Xi is the
total amount of data records belonging to the user interested
by data miner j. Hence, wi log(X
j
i − x ji + 1) is the so-called
privacy gains consciously believed by user i when permitting
data miner j to access to a part of data records. dj is the
current market price of each data record interested by the
data miner. In a big healthcare data market, the value of
dj is mainly related with the kind (e.g., dimensionality and
attribute) of accessing healthcare data, and may be published
to all the users [31]. ρi represents individual preference of
user i for data trading after evaluating data value of the owned
healthcare data. Clearly, ρi is subjectively increased when
the user regards the owned healthcare data with higher value.
There exists a user requirement, r ji > ρidj.
For the data miner, its utility function is directly bound up
with the final revenue Rj in data trading. Data miner j aims to
access to enough data records for maximizing the economic
benefits. For the data miner, the income earned by mining
these data records is equal to (1 + tj)dj
∑
i∈I
x ji , where tj is
the capability of data miner j in transforming data values to
economic assets after performing the data mining task. As for
the total payments, they are represented by
∑
i∈I
x jir
j
i . Here, I
is the set of users that own healthcare data interested by the
data miner. Then Rj = (1+ tj)dj
∑
i∈I
x ji −
∑
i∈I
x jir
j
i .
Besides, there exist several constraints when data miner j
tries to get authorized access to interesting healthcare data of
users belonging to the set I. For each member, the amount
of data records granted to data miner j should be within the
22018 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
limitation of an upper value, yjmax. In general, the constraint is
for ensuring heterogeneous data sources in data mining [32].
To acquire sufficient data records for getting achievable data
utility in data mining, the total amount of data records in the
region offered to data miner j is also required to be larger
than a threshold value, Y jmin. Moreover, the data miner needs
to provide an attractive reward policy for users belonging to
the set I compared with the market price, dj.
Based on the considerations, we try to make the mathe-
matic model exactly adapt to the feasible data trading envi-
ronment. As a consequence, this gives rise to a revenue
maximization problem with serval constraints for data miner
j when purchasing access privileges from local users. The
problem is presented as follows.
max
r ji ,x
j
i
Rj
s.t. 0 ≤ x ji ≤ min(Xi, y
j
max)∑
i∈I
x ji ≥ Y
j
min
r ji ≥ ρidj
(2)
where min(n1, n2) is a function to obtain the minimum value
among two given numbers, n1 and n2.
To solve the problem, we formulate the interaction between
a data miner (data collector) and multiple users (data own-
ers) in decentralized data trading by using Stackelberg game
approach. Dataminer j offers monetary incentive indicated by
r ji to each user when requesting for accessing to the healthcare
data. In turn, user i replies to the request from the data
miner with its participation level based on the announced
rewards. Namely, the user determines the amount of data
records granted to data miner j, x ji . For user i, the determi-
nation is optimized to maximize the utility, which is related
to a privacy-incentive trade-off function in Eqn. (1). All the
responses from users are collected to data miner j for assist-
ing in decision making. Then the data miner further adjusts
reward policy for various users of different responses in order
to maximize the revenue with meeting necessary constraints,
as shown by the problem in (2).
This means that the data miner is naturally fit for acting as
a leader to determine final reward policy while all the users
become followers responding to the data miner with respect
to given rewards. Thus, the interaction between the dataminer
and all the users can be formulated as a typical two-stage
leader-follower game in the incentive mechanism. According
to the descriptions in [33], Stackelberg game model is a
convenient analytical model to study the above scenario. We
define the Stackelberg game between data miner j and all the
users by the following strategic formčž
0 = {(j ∪ {i}i∈I ),Rj, {U
j
i }i∈I , {r
j
i }i∈I , {x
j
i }i∈I}.
In particular, (j ∪ {i}i∈I ) is the player set of the game 0.
Rj and {U
j
i }i∈I are utility sets of the leader and followers,
respectively. For decision making, {r ji }i∈I and {x ji }i∈I are
their strategy sets.
In EdgeCare, the Stackelberg game with a single leader
andmultiple followers is performedwell to implement decen-
tralized data trading. The data miner carries out data trading
in different regions to finish the whole data collection task.
In each region, data miner j has the privilege to act first
while the followers react according to the action of the leader.
For revenue maximization, the proxy edge server in an LA
becomes a broker of data miner j, which tells the proxy edge
server about the data collection requirements, including tj,
yjmax and Y
j
min. The proxy edge server formulates and solves
problem in (2) to determine the optimal reward parameter pj∗i
based on prior knowledge about the impacts of the decisions
on behavior of followers.
Here, we consider that due to attractive incentive, users are
willing to upload private information (wi, Xi and ρi) to the
edge server. The proxy edge server represents data miner j to
declare the rewards pj∗i for encouraging users. To maximize
the individual utility, the best participation level in terms of
x j∗i is given by user i when replying to data miner j in data
trading. The data miner handles the proxy edge server to
access to the corresponding healthcare data and gather them
for performing the data mining task. More details about the
practical scenario regarding to the data miner, proxy edge
server and users are shown in Fig. 3.
FIGURE 3. A broker model for decentralized data trading between a data
miner and local users in EdgeCare.
C. STACKELBERG EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
The objective of the proposed Stackelberg game 0 between
data miner j and user i is to find the unique Stackelberg equi-
librium where both of them have no motivations to unilater-
ally change their decisions. Next, we exploit the Stackelberg
game theory approach to analyse the best responses of the
leader and followers in data trading, respectively.
We study the best responses of the followers first. U j
i can
be converted into an optimal utility function in terms of x ji .
We take the first and second derivatives of U j
i with respect to
x ji , which are shown by
∂U j
i
∂xji
= −
wi
Xi−x
j
i+1
+ r ji
∂2U j
i
∂xj2i
= −
wi
(Xi−x
j
i+1)
2 < 0.
(3)
We easily find that ∂2U j
i /∂x
j2
i < 0. The utility function is
concave. This means that there exists the maximal value ofU j
i
VOLUME 7, 2019 22019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
and the optimal solution of x ji , denoted as x
j∗
i , can be achieved.
We obtain x j∗i by using ∂U j
i /∂x
j
i = 0, then have
x j∗i = Xi −
wi
r ji
+ 1. (4)
For user i, x j∗i is called the best response under given rewards
r ji , which maximizes individual utility on the condition of the
incentive from dataminer j. Clearly, when combining feasible
constraints, the best response of the user is further stated in
practice as follows
x j∗i =

0, r ji < ρidj
Xi −
wi
r ji
+ 1, ρidj 6 r ji 6 wi
Xi, r
j
i ≥ wi
(5)
As a leader in the game, the data miner can know x j∗i from
each user after holding the prior knowledge about the impacts
of the decisions on behavior of the followers. We substitute
x j∗i into the revenue maximization problem of data miner j in
(2), which is reformulated as
max
r ji
∑
i∈I
[(dj + tjdj − r
j
i )(Xi + 1)− (dj+tjdj)wi
r ji
+ wi]
s.t. ρidj 6 r ji 6 rmax
i∑
i∈I
wi
r ji
6
∑
i∈I
Xi + |I| − Y jmin
(6)
Here, rmax
i =
wi
Xi+1−min(Xi,y
j
max)
and |I| indicates the number
of members in the set I. We simplify the above problem with
an intermediate variable r j′i =
wi
r ji
as follows
min
r j′i
∑
i∈I
[wi(Xi+1)
r j′i
+ (dj + tjdj)r
j′
i ]
s.t. ai ≤ r
j′
i ≤ bi∑
i∈I
r j′i 6 c
(7)
where ai =
wi
rmax
i
, bi =
wi
ρidj
and c =
∑
i∈I
Xi + |I| − Y jmin.
By proposing the Lagrange multipliers αi, βi and γ for
the constraints accordingly, the Lagrange function of the
simplified problem L is expressed by
L =
∑
i∈I
[
wi(Xi + 1)
r j′i
+ (dj + tjdj)r
j′
i ]−
∑
i∈I
αi(r
j′
i − ai)
+
∑
i∈I
βi(r
j′
i − bi)+ γ (
∑
i∈I
r j′i − c). (8)
We take the first and second derivatives of L with respect
to r j′i , and find
∂L
∂r j′i
= −
wi(Xi + 1)
r j′2i
+ dj + tjdj − αi + βi + γ
∂2L
∂r j′2i
=
2wi(Xi + 1)
r j′3i
> 0 (9)
Clearly, the optimization problem in (7) is convex with
linear constraints. An optimal solution of r j′i is solved.
Furthermore, there exists a unique r j∗i to be acquired as
the best response of data miner j after learning all the
responses of x j∗i .
In this paper, we use primal-dual Lagrangian method to
solve the problem in (7). According to the first-order deriva-
tive optimality condition, we have
r j′∗i =
√
wi(Xi + 1)
dj + tjdj − αi + βi + γ
. (10)
Besides, we also get the following complementary slackness
condition based on the KKT condition
αi(r
j′
i − ai) = 0
βi(r
j′
i − bi) = 0
γ (
∑
i∈I
r j′i − c) = 0
αi, βi, γ > 0 (11)
We consider possible cases as follows.
Case 1: αi = 0, βi = 0 and γ = 0. According to Eqn.
(10), r j′∗i =
√
wi(Xi+1)
dj+tjdj
. We also ensure that
∑
i∈I
r j′i 6 c and
ai 6 r j′∗i 6 bi. Hence, p
j′∗
i is updated as follows:
r j′∗i =

ai,
√
wi(Xi + 1)
dj + tjdj
< ai√
wi(Xi + 1)
dj + tjdj
, ai 6
√
wi(Xi + 1)
dj + tjdj
6 bi
bi,
√
wi(Xi + 1)
dj + tjdj
> bi
(12)
Case 2: αi = 0, βi = 0 and γ 6= 0. There exist r j′∗i =√
wi(Xi+1)
dj+tjdj+γ
and
∑
i∈I
r j′i = c. Thus, we easily obtain
γ =
(
∑
i∈I
√
wi(Xi + 1))2
c2
− (1+ tj)dj. (13)
We further calculate r j′∗i as follows
r j′∗i =
c
√
wi(Xi + 1)∑
i∈I
√
wi(Xi + 1)
. (14)
Similar, we should guarantee ai 6 r j′∗i 6 bi. We update r j′∗i
based on the following algorithm with iterative steps:
Step 1: Initialization. The set I, boundary values ai, bi and
c, and an empty set A are initialized.
Step 2: Operation. For each member belonging to I, calcu-
late r j′∗i according to Eqn. (14). If the value of r j′∗i is beyond
the boundary limitation, r j′∗i is replaced with the nearest
boundary value. The member is also recorded into A.
22020 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
Step 3: Termination. If A is still empty, the algorithm is
terminated. Otherwise, I, c and A are updated: I = I\A,
c = c−
∑
i∈A
r j′∗i and A = ∅, then jump to Step 2. Here, I\A
means an operation to delete the elements owned by A from
I and ∅ represents an empty set.
Case 3: αi 6= 0, βi = 0 and γ = 0. There exist r j′∗i = ai
and
∑
i∈I
r j′i 6 c. This means that
∑
i∈I
ai ≤ c in this case.
Case 4: αi 6= 0, βi = 0 and γ 6= 0. There exist r j′∗i = ai
and
∑
i∈I
r j′i = c. So we infer that the requirement
∑
i∈I
ai = c
should be satisfied at this time.
Case 5: αi = 0, βi 6= 0 and γ = 0. There exist r j′∗i = bi
and
∑
i∈I
bi 6 c.
Case 6: αi = 0, βi 6= 0 and γ 6= 0. There exist r j′∗i = bi
and
∑
i∈I
bi = c.
By using the primal-dual Lagrangian method, a proxy
edge server can reach the Stackelberg equilibrium (x j∗i , r
j∗
i )
in this paper. As stated above, the proxy edge server holds
the knowledge of the related information of both data miner
j and all the users in data trading. The proxy edge server acts
as a broker to transform the original problem in (2) to the
problem in (6), and find the optimal solution of r j′i by solving
the simplified problem in (7). Then the proxy edge server
further calculates r j∗i . After that, x j∗i is presented by each user
as predicted when facing with r j∗i .
Theorem 1: A unique Stackelberg Equilibrium exists
between the data miner and all the users in the proposed
Stackelberg game model.
Proof : In data trading, according to the given reward
parameter r ji , each user acts as a follower and always has
its own best response x j∗i . x
i∗
j is unique due to the concave
character of the utility function, namely, ∂2U j
i /∂x
j2
i < 0,
as shown in Eqn. (3). By having insight into all the best
responses x j∗i ,∀i ∈ I, the revenue maximization problem of
the leader is reformulated accordingly. Then r j∗i is solved via
the proposed primal-dual Lagrangian method.
Meanwhile, we demonstrate that the data miner has a
unique optimal strategy under given the best strategies of all
the users. Ultimately, in the game model, both the leader and
followers are fully satisfied because their decisions make that
their utilities have been maximized simultaneously. More-
over, when all the players, including each user and the
data miner, have their optimized payoff and cost, respec-
tively, considering the strategies chosen by other players
in the game. They have no incentives to change the deci-
sions and take other actions. Thus, (r j∗i , x j∗i ) is obtained to
guarantee that the unique Stackelberg equilibrium is reached
finally. �
VI. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
A. SECURITY ANALYSIS FOR PROTOCOL DESIGN
We offer necessary security analysis to demonstrate that
EdgeCare with basic protocols has great advantages in
security and privacy protection for users in decentralized
and collaborative data management. In this paper, an EMR
management scheme is to take EMR as an example for show-
ing that how healthcare data is processed with elaborative
security considerations. According to the descriptions in [34],
some important security and privacy requirements are exactly
satisfied in our proposed EdgeCare. We summarize the sig-
nificant advantages of EdgeCare into the following aspects.
1) CONFIDENTIALITY
In EdgeCare, confidentiality of communications is protected
by exploiting the standard cryptographic primitives. We uti-
lize asymmetric/symmetric key-based encryption and digital
signatures in our schemes. Without the symmetric keys and
private keys of any entities, any potential adversaries cannot
open the encrypted packets even though they may realize
the existence of packets and steal them by eavesdropping on
wireless communications and illegal packet capture. During
the communications, we use timestamp in all the packets to
effectively prevent replay attacks.
2) INTEGRITY AND AUTHENTICATION
In the EMR management scheme, after treatment, a doctor
must sign the diagnosis record. The diagnosis record with
the digital signature is sent to a patient. By verifying the
digital signature, the patient confirms the diagnosis record
and further signs it. Thus, the diagnosis record with dual
signature is finally generated to reach a consensus. Then the
mutually agreed EMR is transferred for data update in the LA.
Here, without the private key of the signer, any entity cannot
counterfeit the digital signature of other entities. Since the
digital signature is only generated by a specific signer, any
information with a digital signature can be authenticated and
verified whether the signer is the sender or not. If one EMR
is modified by unauthorized parties or random errors during
the transmission, the receivers can also discover it in the
process of verification, which guarantees the integrity and
authentication.
3) TRACEABILITY
Due to the proposed dual signature, non-repudiation of
designed communication protocols is ensured. In case of a
round of packet transmission and receipt, neither the sender
nor the receiver can deny having taken part in the communi-
cation. This means that the communication protocols are able
to avoid one of the implied entities (i.e., sender and receiver)
cheating and being cheated. At the same time, traceable data
access is supported as LAs record and monitor who access to
healthcare data of local users.
4) USER-CENTRIC ACCESS CONTROL
In the EMR management scheme, when a doctor would like
to access the healthcare data of a patient, the doctor should
ask the patient for permission. Otherwise, the LAwill prevent
the access caused by the doctor. Similarly, when the doctor
hopes to acquire a regular access privilege from the patient,
VOLUME 7, 2019 22021
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
the doctor should also directly inquire the patient whether it
can be granted. In short, for the patient, all the data access
in the LA regarding to his healthcare data should be firstly
authorized by him. Moreover, the patient can independently
permit temporary access and assign/revoke any access privi-
leges for/from others in EdgeCare.
B. NUMERICAL RESULTS ABOUT DECENTRALIZED
DATA TRADING
We evaluate the performance of the proposed Stackelberg
game based scheme for decentralized data trading in Edge-
Care by extensive simulations. A data miner tries to access
to healthcare data belonging to several users for performing
a data mining task. For simplicity, we consider that there
exist 100 users owning healthcare data interested by the data
miner in a region. The amount of healthcare data belonging
to each user is distributed uniformly over [1, 5] kilo records.
For the users, the individual willingness for data protection
rather than data trading w ranges from 3 to 8. For feasible
data mining, data collection requirements are put forward,
including t , ymax and Ymin. They are 1, 4 and 200 kilo records.
Individual preference ρ ranges from 0.9 to 1.1 with uniform
distribution. Market price d is equal to 1 dollar per kilo
records.
1) PERFORMANCE OF THE STACKELBERG GAME
In this paper, we present Stackelberg game approach to for-
mulate the interaction between the data miner and local users
in data trading. More specifically, in the Stackelberg game
based incentive mechanism, the data miner acts as a leader
to reward access privileges authorized by the users while the
users are followers to determine the amounts of data records
granted to the data miner accordingly. To reach a unique
Stackelberg equilibrium, we propose primal-dual Lagrangian
method for the data miner to determine reward policy in the
game.
We first evaluate the related method performance.
We repeat the algorithm 500 times and find that facing with
100 users, the method executed by the data miner can confirm
the whole reward policy for all the users finally. At this
time, both the data miner and local users have acquired their
best responses, namely, reaching the Stackelberg equilibrium.
We randomly select 10 users for the observation and compare
the reward parameters in problem (6) solved by typical CVX
tool and our method, as shown in Fig. 4. Clearly, there
are few differences among the reward parameters calculated
by various methods. This demonstrates the effectiveness
of our primal-dual Lagrangian method for the solution of
problem (6).
Besides, we compare performances between the Stack-
elberg game based scheme and maximum-amount purchas-
ing (MAP) scheme in data trading, as shown in Fig. 5.
In the MAP scheme, the data miner is suggested to access
to their whole data records of local users, namely, making
x∗i = min(Xi, ymax). In practice, the scheme is convenient to
fully satisfy the crucial data collection requirement denoted
FIGURE 4. Method validation regarding to primal-dual Lagrangian
method for reaching the Stackelberg equilibrium.
FIGURE 5. Comparison of revenue of the data owner with respect to
different schemes.
by Ymin. However, the simple scheme neglects the revenue for
the data miner in data trading. For optimization, the goal in
the problem is related with overall revenue of the data miner.
The revenue is increased when the data miner is of higher
capability to transform data values into economic assets after
performing the data mining task.
Differently to theMAP scheme, our scheme optimizes data
collection in terms of adjusting reward policy for accessing
to enough data records and maximizing the revenue simulta-
neously. As a consequence, the revenue is greatly superior
in our proposed scheme and dynamically improved with
the increasing capability parameter t . For example, when
t = 1, the revenue is negative in the MAP scheme while
that is 95 dollar in our proposed scheme. This means with
the considerate optimization, our scheme outperforms the
baseline scheme and shows great advantages in maximizing
the revenue for the data miner in data trading.
2) IMPACTS TO THE STACKELBERG GAME
Here, we study the impacts of different parameters for the best
response of a user (follower) in the Stackelberg game based
22022 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
FIGURE 6. Performance comparison of the best response of a follower
with respect to different p1, X1 and w1. (a) Different values of the
amount of available data records X1. (b)Different values of individual
willingness about data trading w1.
scheme, which are illustrated by Fig. 6. We choose the first
user for observations. Based on Eqn. (5), the best response of
the user when determining the optimal amount of authorized
data records to the data miner, x∗1 , is influenced the following
parameters: given reward parameter p1, the total amount of
available data records X1 and the individual willingness for
data protection rather than data trading w1.
It is obvious that with the increasing value of the reward
parameter, the user would like to allow more data records
to be published for earing more economic benefits. So x∗1
is increased to improve the utility with the higher value of
p1. Meanwhile, when having more data records, the user
can acquire improved privacy gains in case of publishing
the same amount of data records. In this way, the user also
tends to permit more data records granted to the data miner
because of less privacy losses. As shown in Fig. 6(a), with
the same reward parameter: p1 = 4 and w1 = 6, the optimal
amount of authorized data records x∗1 is improved with about
100% when the value of X1 is changed from 2.5 to 4.5 kilo
records.
As for the willingness to indicate the level of data protec-
tion, the parameter plays a negative impact for the faclitation
of data trading. The higher value of w1 means that the user
pays more attention to prevent healthcare data well from
being accessed for avoiding potential privacy threats in the
utility function. As w1 is increased from 4 to 6, the user
prefers to reduce the amount of authorized data records under
the condition p1 = 3 and X1 = 4.5. The decline in percent-
ages regarding to the amount is more than 16% in Fig. 6(b).
In turn, the best response of the data miner (leader) corre-
sponding to the final revenue is influenced by the internal and
external parameters. The internal parameter is mainly repre-
sented by capability parameter t , to express the earning power
in performing the data mining task. The external parameters
are related with status information of all the users in data
trading. Here, we use the average values of X and w, namely,
X and w, to mainly indicate the status information of local
users in data trading.
FIGURE 7. Performance comparison of the best response of the leader
with respect to different t , X and w . (a) Different average values of the
amount of available data records belonging to local users. (b) Different
average values of individual willingness of each user uninteresting in
data trading.
As shown in Fig. 7, we study the impacts of different
parameters for the best response of the data miner in the
scheme. On one hand, the data miner earns more when the
VOLUME 7, 2019 22023
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
capability parameter is strengthened, namely, the value of t
is increased. In addition, user i prefers to publish individual
healthcare data to the data miner in data trading when the
total amount of available data records Xi is sufficient enough.
With the same reward policy, the data miner can access to
more data records as the average value of X is significantly
higher. This leads to greater revenue for the data miner under
the given condition of t . We take that X is improved from
3.5 to 4 kilo records as an example. In Fig. 7(a), when t is 1,
the increment in percentages of the revenue is about 117% at
this time.
Besides, the revenue is also influenced by the increasing
unwillingness of each user for data trading. If the value of w
is high, most of the users are uninterested in allowing the data
miner access to their healthcare data via data trading. To meet
the data collection requirement, the data miner should offer
more incentive. As a result, the revenue for the data miner is
lessen sharply accordingly. For example, under the condition
of t = 1.2, the revenue is decreased from 92 dollar to
27 dollar as the value of w is increased from 5 to 6.5.
In summary, the above numerical results demonstrate that
the Stackelberg game approach is feasible and effective for
both the data miner and users in data trading.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we leverage edge computing to present a
secure and efficient system, called by EdgeCare, for mobile
healthcare systems. Thus, decentralized and collaborative
data management is achieved. In EdgeCare, specialized LAs
act as trusted authorities to schedules edge server for process-
ing healthcare data with security guarantee and facilitating
feasible data trading. To enable EdgeCare, the hierarchical
architecture of EdgeCare is proposed and discussed to ensure
the feasibility of secure and efficient data management in the
decentralized mobile environment. The EMR management
scheme and the corresponding protocol workflows are also
elaborately designed to handle healthcare data processing
with security and privacy requirements. Moreover, we study
the optimization problem about decentralized data trading in
EdgeCare. The interaction between a data collector and local
users is formulated by Stackelberg game to closely approach
the real data trading environment. Finally, numerical results
with security analysis are provided to demonstrate that Edge-
Care has significant advantages in security protection for
healthcare data, and support efficient data trading.
REFERENCES
[1] O. S. Kemkarl and D. P. B. Dahikar, ‘‘Can electronic medical record
systems transform health care? Potential health benefits, savings, and
cost using latest advancements in ICT for better interactive health-
care learning,’’ Int. J. Comput. Sci. Commun. Netw., vol. 2, nos. 3–6,
pp. 453–455, 2012.
[2] M. M. Baig, H. GholamHosseini, and M. J. Connolly, ‘‘Mobile healthcare
applications: System design review, critical issues and challenges,’’ Aus-
tralas. Phys. Eng. Sci. Med., vol. 38, pp. 23–38, Mar. 2015.
[3] P. Hunter, ‘‘The big health data sale: As the trade of personal health and
medical data expands, it becomes necessary to improve legal frameworks
for protecting patient anonymity, handling consent and ensuring the quality
of data,’’ EMBO Rep., p. e201642917, Nov. 2016.
[4] S. Armstrong, ‘‘Data, data everywhere: The challenges of personalised
medicine,’’ BMJ, vol. 359, p. j4546, Oct. 2017.
[5] L. A. Tawalbeh, R. Mehmood, E. Benkhlifa, and H. Song, ‘‘Mobile cloud
computing model and big data analysis for healthcare applications,’’ IEEE
Access, vol. 4, pp. 6171–6180, 2016.
[6] H. Kaur,M.A.Alam, R. Jameel, A. K.Mourya, andV. Chang, ‘‘A proposed
solution and future direction for blockchain-based heterogeneousmedicare
data in cloud environment,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 42, p. 156, Aug. 2018.
[7] L. Zhu, Y. Wu, K. Gai, and K.-K. R. Choo, ‘‘Controllable and trustworthy
blockchain-based cloud data management,’’ Future Gener. Comput. Syst.,
vol. 91, pp. 527–535, Feb. 2019.
[8] M. N. K. Boulos, J. T. Wilson, and K. A. Clauson, ‘‘Geospatial blockchain:
Promises, challenges, and scenarios in health and healthcare,’’ Int.
J. Health Geogr., vol. 17, p. 25, Jul. 2018.
[9] Q. Xia, E. B. Sifah, A. Smahi, S. Amofa, and X. Zhang, ‘‘BBDS:
Blockchain-based data sharing for electronic medical records in cloud
environments,’’ Information, vol. 8, no. 2, p. 44, 2017.
[10] A. Azaria, A. Ekblaw, T. Vieira, and A. Lippman, ‘‘MedRec: Using
blockchain for medical data access and permission management,’’ in Proc.
2nd Int. Conf. Open Big Data (OBD), Aug. 2016, pp. 25–30.
[11] Y. C. Hu, M. Patel, D. Sabella, N. Sprecher, and V. Young, ‘‘Mobile
edge computing—A key technology towards,’’ ETSI White Paper, vol. 11,
no. 11, pp. 1–16, 2015.
[12] N. Abbas, Y. Zhang, A. Taherkordi, and T. Skeie, ‘‘Mobile edge computing:
A survey,’’ IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 450–465, Feb. 2018.
[13] X. Huang, R. Yu, J. Kang, and Y. Zhang, ‘‘Distributed reputation manage-
ment for secure and efficient vehicular edge computing and networks,’’
IEEE Access, vol. 5, pp. 25408–25420, 2017.
[14] N. Kumar, S. Zeadally, and J. J. P. C. Rodrigues, ‘‘Vehicular delay-tolerant
networks for smart grid data management using mobile edge computing,’’
IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 60–66, Oct. 2016.
[15] W. Shi and S. Dustdar, ‘‘The promise of edge computing,’’ Computer,
vol. 49, no. 5, pp. 78–81, 2016.
[16] J. Kang, X. Huang, R. Yu, Y. Zhang, and S. Gjessing, ‘‘Hierarchical mobile
cloud with social grouping for secure pervasive healthcare,’’ in Proc.
17th Int. Conf. E-Health Netw., Appl. Services (HealthCom), Oct. 2015,
pp. 609–614.
[17] D. Thilakanathan, S. Chen, S. Nepal, R. A. Calvo, and L. Alem,
‘‘A platform for secure monitoring and sharing of generic health data
in the cloud,’’ Future Generat. Comput. Syst., vol. 35, pp. 102–113,
Jun. 2014.
[18] Y. Zhang, M. Qiu, C.-W. Tsai, M. M. Hassan, and A. Alamri, ‘‘Health-
CPS: Healthcare cyber-physical system assisted by cloud and big data,’’
IEEE Syst. J., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 88–95, Mar. 2017.
[19] M. Li, S. Yu, Y. Zheng, K. Ren, and W. Lou, ‘‘Scalable and secure
sharing of personal health records in cloud computing using attribute-
based encryption,’’ IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 24, no. 1,
pp. 131–143, Jan. 2013.
[20] T. Nugent, D. Upton, and M. Cimpoesu, ‘‘Improving data transparency in
clinical trials using blockchain smart contracts,’’ Research, vol. 5, p. 2541,
Oct. 2016.
[21] A. Abbas and S. U. Khan, ‘‘A review on the state-of-the-art privacy-
preserving approaches in the e-health clouds,’’ IEEE J. Biomed. Health
Informat., vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 1431–1441, Apr. 2014.
[22] M. Al Ameen, J. Liu, and K. Kwak, ‘‘Security and privacy issues in wire-
less sensor networks for healthcare applications,’’ J. Med. Syst., vol. 36,
pp. 93–101, Feb. 2012.
[23] M. A. Alkureishi et al., ‘‘Impact of electronic medical record use on
the patient-doctor relationship and communication: A systematic review,’’
J. Gen. Internal Med., vol. 31, pp. 548–560, May 2016.
[24] G. Manogaran, C. Thota, D. Lopez, and R. Sundarasekar, ‘‘Big data secu-
rity intelligence for healthcare industry 4.0,’’ in Cybersecurity for Industry
4.0: Analysis for Design andManufacturing. Cham, Switzerland: Springer,
2017, pp. 103–126.
[25] C. C. Aggarwal and P. S. Yu, ‘‘A general survey of privacy-preserving
data mining models and algorithms,’’ in Privacy-Preserving Data Mining.
Boston, MA, USA: Springer, 2008, pp. 11–52.
[26] L. Xu, C. Jiang, Y. Chen, J. Wang, and Y. Ren, ‘‘A framework for catego-
rizing and applying privacy-preservation techniques in big data mining,’’
Computer, vol. 49, no. 2, pp. 54–62, Feb. 2016.
[27] R. H.Khokhar, B. C. Fung, F. Iqbal, D. Alhadidi, and J. Bentahar, ‘‘Privacy-
preserving data mashup model for trading person-specific information,’’
Electron. Commerce Res. Appl., vol. 17, pp. 19–37, May/Jun. 2016.
22024 VOLUME 7, 2019
X. Li et al.: EdgeCare: Leveraging Edge Computing for Collaborative Data Management in Mobile Healthcare Systems
[28] L. Xu, C. Jiang, J. Wang, J. Yuan, and Y. Ren, ‘‘Information security in
big data: Privacy and data mining,’’ IEEE Access, vol. 2, pp. 1149–1176,
Oct. 2014.
[29] S. Romanosky and A. Acquisti, ‘‘Privacy costs and personal data protec-
tion: Economic and legal perspectives,’’ Berkeley Technol. Law J., vol. 24,
no. 1, p. 1061, 2009.
[30] L. Xu, C. Jiang, Y. Chen, Y. Ren, and K. J. R. Liu, ‘‘Privacy or utility in data
collection? A contract theoretic approach,’’ J. Sel. Topics Signal Process.,
vol. 9, no. 7, pp. 1256–1269, Oct. 2015.
[31] S. Spiekermann, A. Acquisti, R. Böhme, and K.-L. Hui, ‘‘The challenges
of personal data markets and privacy,’’ Electron. Markets, vol. 25, no. 2,
pp. 161–167, 2015.
[32] X. Wu, X. Zhu, G.-Q. Wu, and W. Ding, ‘‘Data mining with big data,’’
IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng., vol. 26, no. 1, pp. 97–107, Jan. 2014.
[33] J. B. Cruz, Jr., ‘‘Survey of nash and stackelberg equilibrim strategies in
dynamic games,’’ in Ann. Econ. Social Meas., vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 339–344,
1975.
[34] M. T. Siponen and H. Oinas-Kukkonen, ‘‘A review of information security
issues and respective research contributions,’’ SIGMIS Database, vol. 38,
pp. 60–80, Feb. 2007.
Authors’ photographs and biographies not available at the time of
publication.
VOLUME 7, 2019 22025
	INTRODUCTION
	RELATED WORK
	CENTRALIZED DATA MANAGEMENT
	BLOCKCHAIN-BASED DECENTRALIZED DATA MANAGEMENT
	HIERARCHICAL ARCHITECTURE
	EDGE COMPUTING IN EDGECARE
	THREE-LAYER ARCHITECTURE FOR EDGECARE
	USER LAYER
	EDGE LAYER
	CORE LAYER
	SECURE DATA UPLOADING AND SHARING
	INITIALIZATION STAGE
	DIAGNOSIS STAGE
	EMR UPLOADING STAGE
	EMR SHARING STAGE
	DECENTRALIZED DATA TRADING
	BASIC PRINCIPLES IN DECENTRALIZED DATA TRADING
	STACKELBERG GAME APPROACH
	STACKELBERG EQUILIBRIUM ANALYSIS
	PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
	SECURITY ANALYSIS FOR PROTOCOL DESIGN
	CONFIDENTIALITY
	INTEGRITY AND AUTHENTICATION
	TRACEABILITY
	USER-CENTRIC ACCESS CONTROL
	NUMERICAL RESULTS ABOUT DECENTRALIZED DATA TRADING
	PERFORMANCE OF THE STACKELBERG GAME
	IMPACTS TO THE STACKELBERG GAME
	CONCLUSION
	REFERENCES
	Biographies
	Authors'