Governmental Anti-Pandemic and Subsidy Strategies for Blockchain-Enabled Food Supply Chains in the Post-Pandemic Era
Citation: Liao, C.; Lu, Q.; Shui, Y.
Governmental Anti-Pandemic and
Subsidy Strategies for Blockchain-
Enabled Food Supply Chains in the
Post-Pandemic Era. Sustainability
2022, 14, 9497. https://doi.org/
10.3390/su14159497
Academic Editors: Jian Li, Zhou He,
Yongwu Li and Bing Xia
Received: 16 June 2022
Accepted: 20 July 2022
Published: 2 August 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sustainability
Article
Governmental Anti-Pandemic and Subsidy Strategies for
Blockchain-Enabled Food Supply Chains in the
Post-Pandemic Era
Changhua Liao , Qihui Lu * and Ying Shui
School of Business Administration, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hangzhou 310018, China;
changhual@163.com (C.L.); shui_ying_0730@163.com (Y.S.)
* Correspondence: qihuilu@zjgsu.edu.cn
Abstract: Aiming to explore whether governments should choose anti-pandemic or subsidy strategies
in the post-pandemic era, this study constructed a three-level food supply chain that was composed
of a leading third-party logistics provider, a supplier and a retailer, in which the third-party logistics
provider used blockchain technology for food traceability to address consumer concerns about food
safety. We then used game theory to analyze the pricing decisions, traceability levels, anti-pandemic
effort levels and subsidy levels of the supply chain under different governmental anti-pandemic or
subsidy strategies. Our results showed that in all scenarios, the higher the consumer preference for
traceability information, the larger the traceability levels and anti-pandemic effort levels and the
more favorable the outcome for all parties; thus, governments should improve consumer awareness
of pandemic prevention. For the benefit of all parties, governments should adopt anti-pandemic and
subsidy strategies simultaneously, even in the post-pandemic era. Interestingly, for the scenario in
which governments could only adopt one strategy, when the cost coefficient of traceability was small,
the governmental subsidies would actually lead to lower traceability levels of the 3PL. This study
could provide decision-making references for governments during the post-pandemic era and a new
possibility for blockchain application.
Keywords: three-level food supply chain; blockchain technology; governmental strategy selection;
traceability; game theory
1. Introduction
In reality, the worldwide consumption of fresh products, including seafood, eggs
and meat, is enormous. With the development of cold chain technologies, enterprises
usually use cold chain logistics to transport these products, so that consumer demand
for fresh products can be satisfied. Due to the high specialization and standardization
of third-party cold chain logistics, the wide coverage of logistics networks and the low
associated costs, most fresh produce companies tend to outsource their logistics operations
to third-party cold chain logistics companies [1]. While cold chain logistics has greatly
increased the quality of fresh produce, food safety has been challenged by the COVID-19
pandemic. Consumers now have serious health and safety concerns about the origin and
transportation of their food, within which viruses can survive for long periods of time [2].
For example, in Alibaba-owned Hema Fresh supermarkets, several workers were infected
while processing food that was supplied via cold chain logisticsand so, the imported frozen
meat and seafood products that were sold through Hema Fresh had to be subjected to strict
testing. Therefore, in order to rebuild consumer trust during the post-COVID-19 pandemic
era, supply chain traceability and transparency are critical to the survival of businesses [3].
Blockchain technology is an emerging traceability technology that is decentralized,
open and transparent, cryptographically protected and tamper-proof [4]. Compared to
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159497 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159497
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159497
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5655-8359
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4298-9123
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14159497
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/su14159497?type=check_update&version=3
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 2 of 23
other traceability technologies, such as RFID technology, blockchain technology has unpar-
alleled advantages for product traceability. Supply chain node companies are able to not
only use blockchain technology to monitor product quality in real time, but also effectively
track and identify potentially infected products [5]. Over recent years, some industry giants
have pioneered the use of blockchain technology to track product information, including
manufacturing companies, logistics companies and e-commerce companies. For example,
Maersk has used blockchain technology to help shippers, ports, customs, banks and lo-
gistics providers to track their shipments. Alibaba has subsequently launched the Tmall
e-commerce platform, which uses blockchain technology and is based on a cold chain
traceability system [1,6].
By leveraging the advantages of blockchain, enterprises can increase the purchasing
power of consumers so that the enterprises can weather this storm on their own. For
governments, appropriate strategies should also be adopted to address consumer concerns
and improve supply chain performance. Since the end of 2019, COVID-19 has ravaged
the world, with food supply chains being severely affected. When the pandemic was at its
most severe, many countries throughout the world formulated emergency rescue measures.
Cities that were hit hard by the outbreak enforced “city closures” to deal with the pandemic
and many internet companies allowed employees to work from home [7]. However, in the
post-pandemic era, the pandemic has eased but not completely disappeared. The rates of
infection now rise and fall from time to time and small-scale outbreaks can occur at any
time. During this era, many countries throughout the world have begun to cancel or reduce
the levels of their pandemic prevention measures [8]. After experiencing the pandemic,
most people’s concept of life has changed and they are now more concerned about food
safety and the social consumption capacity has declined. In order to improve consumer
purchasing levels and avoid socioeconomic imbalances, governments could either continue
to adopt anti-pandemic strategies or subsidize blockchain traceability technologies to
address people’s concerns about food safety, thereby improving social production levels
and the economic environment. Government subsidies come in a variety of forms; for
example, the Government of India’s Ministry of Power subsidizes the purchase of LED
light bulbs across the country [9]. In this study, we focused on subsidies for blockchain
traceability, which could also be regarded as a kind of governmental subsidy for enterprises
to address consumer concerns about food safety and could help governments to fight the
ongoing effects of the pandemic.
Within the above context, we know that blockchain traceability technologies and
governmental anti-pandemic policies are very important to supply chain operations during
the post-pandemic era, but the costs of anti-pandemic and traceability strategies are high.
At this point, whether governments should choose to continue their own investments into
anti-pandemic efforts, provide subsidies to allow enterprises to improve traceability or
choose both anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies simultaneously is worthy of attention.
Therefore, we investigated the following important research questions:
(1) When adopting blockchain technology, what are the optimal decisions for food
supply chains both with and without governmental anti-pandemic or subsidy strategies?
(2) In the post-pandemic era, should governments continue to adopt anti-pandemic
strategies or new subsidy strategies? Which strategies would be better?
In order to solve the above problems, we first studied four scenarios in which govern-
ments adopted anti-pandemic strategies or subsidy strategies. We found that anti-pandemic
strategies were only established when the cost coefficients of the anti-pandemic efforts
were too large and that subsidy strategies were only established when the cost coefficients
of traceability were too large. Then, we analyzed the impacts of consumer preference for
traceability information on equilibrium solutions, the profits of supply chain members,
consumer surplus and social welfare. The results showed that in all scenarios, the greater
the consumer preference for traceability information, the more beneficial the outcomes
for all parties and society. Finally, by comparing the various scenarios, we found that the
simultaneous adoption of anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies by governments would
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 3 of 23
always be beneficial to suppliers, retailers and consumers and that the impacts on third-
party logistics providers (3PL) and social welfare would be related to the cost coefficients
of anti-pandemic efforts and the consumer preference for traceability information. In other
words, it would be the most detrimental to supply chain members and society in general
for governments not to adopt any strategies.
To the best of our knowledge, by considering the consumer preference for traceability
information, this is the first work to investigate governmental anti-pandemic and sub-
sidy strategies in blockchain-enabled food supply chains (FSCs). Specifically, this study
focused on answering the question of whether governments should choose anti-pandemic
strategies or subsidy strategies when considering the costs of anti-pandemic efforts and
subsidies for blockchain traceability technologies. Our research uncovered the effects of
governmental strategy selection on traceability information levels based on blockchain
technology, food prices in the post-pandemic era, the profits of the supply chain members,
consumer surplus and social welfare. These could provide managerial implications for the
operational decisions of blockchain-enabled FSCs and provide decision-making references
for governmental anti-pandemic efforts when adopting blockchain technology.
The remainder of this paper is organised as follows. Section 2 presents a review of
the related literature. Section 3 provides the model description. Section 4 constructs the
model and then derives the equilibrium solutions. Section 5 provides a comparison among
the different models. Section 6 states practical and theoretical implications. Section 7
summarizes our conclusions. All the proofs are provided in the Appendix A.
2. Literature Review
This study is related to three streams of literature, namely, the application of blockchain
technology in supply chain management, food traceability, and the governmental anti-
pandemic and subsidy strategies.
2.1. Application of Blockchain Technology in Supply Chain Management
In recent years, the application of blockchain technology in supply chain manage-
ment has been studied by many scholars (Fan et al. [10]; Chang et al. [11]; Liu et al.
[12]; Wong et al. [13]; Dubey et al. [14]; Pun et al. [15]; Niu et al. [16]; Wang et al. [17];
Xu et al. [18]). For example, Choi [19] analyzed different consumer utility driven operations
models and highlighted the values of blockchain technology supported platforms for dia-
mond authentication and certification. Choi and Luo [20] studied the blockchain adoption
to help and identify the situation in which blockchain helps enhance social welfare but
brings harm to supply chain profitability. Choi et al. [21] explored the value of blockchain
technology mediated customized service pricing strategy. De Giovanni [22] built a supply
chain composed of a supplier and a retailer, highlighting where the use of smart contracts
made blockchain applications more operationally convenient and economically appealing.
Under cap-and-trade regulation, Xu and Choi [23] proposed a supply chain composed
of an offline manufacturer and an online platform. They found that whether blockchain
technology could increase profitability of the manufacturer’s offline channel depended
on the cross-channel effect. Niu et al. [24] studied a two-period model where two private
hospitals compete in both service quality and service charges. They suggested that to save
patients’ costs, blockchain-based health information exchange for differentiated service
should be adopted. Tao et al. [25] analyzed the effect of blockchain on optimal pricing
and quality decisions under two different supply chain structures. They found that when
consumer acceptance of blockchain is low, the products with blockchain have not only a low
price but also a high quality in the single platform. Wu and Yu [26] investigated the impact
of blockchain technology on platform supply chains from the perspectives of information
transparency and transaction cost. Their results indicated that the blockchain can be a great
tool for platforms to control the market and adjust prices. In view of the food supply chains
with health-safety concerns in the post-pandemic era, considering the traceability and
transparency of reliable information supported by blockchain implementation, we explore
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 4 of 23
the impact of blockchain on operational decisions such as FSCs pricing and traceability
levels, which enriches the existing research.
2.2. Food Traceability
Nowadays, consumers are paying more attention to food safety which has aroused
the attention of scholars. For example, Shankar et al. [27] analyzed the effect of consumer
satisfaction, effective traffic management, manufacturer brand and government regulations,
among other factors, on the traceability of the food logistics system. Haleem et al. [28]
explored the factors influencing the implementation of traceability systems in food supply
chains. They found that food safety and quality are the most important factors. Similarly,
Casino et al. [29] showed that the blockchain and IoT is beneficial in building a secure
food traceability system. In addition, some scholars studied the application of blockchain
technology to food traceability. Tan et al. [30] proposed a blockchain-based traceability
framework that had been tested and verified in the real-life halal food supply chain. Roger-
son and Parry [31] believed that blockchain adoption in a food supply chain can increase
consumer trust and heighten visibility. Qian et al. [32] and Stranieri et al. [33] dissected
the application, advantages, and future challenges of blockchain in food traceability. It
should be point out that, most of the above research analyzed the issue of food traceability
from a theoretical exposition or empirical research perspective. Liu et al. [34] was the first
to use a game-theoretic model to show the positive impact of blockchain on fresh food
traceability and the impact of food marketing effect generated by the blockchain traceability.
Niu et al. [35] further provided the value of blockchain in identifying the responsible party
for bacteria pollution. Moreover, Yang et al. [6] focused on the food supply chains with
health-safety concerns, and applied the traceability and transparency of reliable information
supported by blockchain. Wu et al. [1] studied the optimal strategies of the three-level fresh
product supply chain when considering the blockchain-based traceability system. Similar
to Yang et al. [6] and Wu et al. [1], we study a blockchain-based food traceability system
dominated by the 3PL, taking into account consumers’ concerns about epidemic infections
and their preferences for traceability information. The difference with our research is that
we focus on the governmental strategic choices in the post-pandemic era.
2.3. Governmental Anti-Pandemic and Subsidy Strategies
This paper also relates to the governmental anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies.
For the study of epidemic prevention, Chinazzi et al. [36] projected the effect of travel
limitations on the national and international spread of the epidemic by using a global
metapopulation disease transmission model. Liao and Wang [37] studied the effect of
epidemic information and rumors on public’s worries and attitude toward prevention
measures during the outbreak of COVID-19. Their results showed the importance of timely
and credible information providing to evoke a certain level of worry and promote public
cooperation. Wu et al. [38] indicated how China responded to the public health emergency
of COVID-19 from the perspective of policy making. They showed that the Chinese
government adopted a multi-agency, joint epidemic prevention and control mechanism to
ensure the efficiency of policy implementation. It can be found that the research on epidemic
prevention is mainly biased towards qualitative analysis. Research on governmental
subsidy is common in low-carbon supply chains and green supply chains (Wang et al. [39];
Li et al. [40]; Zhang et al. [41]). Xue et al. [42] used a game-theoretical model to analyze
the green product design and multi-product pricing strategies under different government
subsidy strategies and supply chain structures. They stated that to realize the sustainable
development of our society, the enterprise should adopt reasonable measures to boost the
environmental awareness of consumers. Ma et al. [43] explored the effect of government
subsidy on participants’ performances under asymmetric carbon reduction information.
They found that if subsidy policy is more effective in stimulating demand, the subsidy can
encourage the manufacturer to share information with the government. Xu and Duan [44]
studied optimal strategies for pricing and greenness investment for green products with
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 5 of 23
government subsidies and probed the conditions for adopting blockchain. In addition,
Yang and Qian [7] examined the equilibrium results and anti-epidemic effort level of supply
chain under different government subsidy measures and coordination strategies. They
found that in the context of the epidemic, government subsidies can improve the level of
social welfare. We also consider the governmental subsidy strategy, but it is a subsidy for
the 3PL using blockchain traceability. At the same time, we consider the government to
decide the anti-pandemic effort level, and explore what strategies the government should
adopt to deal with the epidemic in the post-pandemic era.
2.4. Research Gap
In this subsection, we summarize the research gaps between our work and the existing
literature and further highlight our contributions. First, to the best of our knowledge, this
paper is the first to use the game theory model to describe the importance of blockchain
technology to food traceability in the context of the COVID-19. We explore the government’s
choice of two strategies for anti-pandemic and subsidy under the blockchain traceability.
Second, this paper considers the 3PL as the leader of the supply chain, which bears the cost
of blockchain traceability and determines the traceability level, and explores the impact of
different governmental strategies on the traceability levels and profits. Third, considering
the government’s decision to maximize social welfare, we study the impact of different
scenarios on society and consumers, so as to provide decision-making references for the
government in the post-pandemic era and a new background for blockchain application.
This is not only conducive to the stability and sustainable development of the supply chain,
but also to the mitigation of the epidemic.
3. Model Description
We consider a food supply chain system consisting of one supplier, one 3PL and one
retailer, who are indexed by S, L and R, respectively. The supplier outsources the logistics
service to the 3PL at a unit logistics service price m and sells this product to the retailer
via a wholesale contract at a unit wholesale price w. The 3PL delivers the products to the
retailer, and then the retailer sells the products to consumers at a unit retail price p, with
p > w > m > 0. To simplify the calculation, we assume that the supplier’s production
cost and the 3PL’s logistics service cost are zero [16,45]. For a consumer in the market,
the valuation towards the product under normal circumstances is denoted by v, which
is a continuous variable and follows a density function f (v). We assume that v follows a
uniform distribution in the range of 0 and 1 [1,6,10].
In the post-pandemic era, the epidemic occurs occasionally, thus the supply chain
faces an infection risk. For example, the areas through which the transport passes may be
experiencing a COVID-19 outbreak, which exposes the product to an infection risk during
the logistics process. Facing the infection risk, consumers become concerned about the
safety of the product. To address these concerns and meet consumers’ need for authentic
and reliable product traceability information, one efficient approach is adopting blockchain
given its information transparency and traceability. Under the scenario where the FSCs
adopt blockchain, more information will lead to higher degree of trust for consumers
who have preference for traceability information and higher consumers’ utility, but more
traceability information means higher traceability cost [1]. We denote the traceability
information level based on blockchain as t. Thus, following [1,6,46], we assume that
the cost of traceability by using blockchain is 1
2 kt2, and the consumers’ utility function
is u = v − bp + δt, where k > 0 indicates the cost coefficient of traceability by using
blockchain, b > 0 is the price sensitivity of the product. The implementation of blockchain
does not directly influence the product characteristics and price sensitivity but positively
affects the utility by fostering consumers’ trust. δt represents the increase of traceability
level on consumers’ utility, δ > 0 is the consumer preference for traceability information.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 6 of 23
The consumers will purchase the product only if v − bp + δt > 0. Thus, the demand
function under the scenario of adopting blockchain can be formulated as follows:
DB =
∫ 1
bp−δt
f (v)dv = 1− bp + δt. (1)
In the presence of the pandemic, for the health and safety of the people, the government
will make efforts to prevent the epidemic, at this time, we denote the anti-pandemic effort
level for the government as ep. In the post-pandemic era, the epidemic is not as severe as in
the previous stage, so that the government has successively loosened the requirements for
anti-pandemic and lowered the anti-pandemic effort level, we denote the decrease of anti-
pandemic effort level as ed. Thus, in the post-pandemic era, the governmental actual anti-
pandemic effort level is e = ep − ed, where e = 0 indicates the government will not adopt
anti-pandemic strategy. A high level of anti-pandemic effort means high anti-pandemic
effort costs. Thus, if the government adopts the anti-pandemic effort level e, it involves
a cost 1
2 he2, where h is the cost coefficient of the anti-pandemic effort. Such a quadratic-
type function is commonly used in previous studies [7,47,48]. In addition, the higher the
anti-pandemic effort level of the government, the lower the probability of products being
infected, thereby reducing consumers’ concerns about products and improving consumers’
perceived utility of products. Therefore, when the government adopts the anti-pandemic
strategy, consumers’ utility function can be described as u = v− bp + θe + δt [7], where
θe represents the increase of anti-pandemic effort level on consumers’ utility, and without
loss of generality, we set θ = 1 [6]. The consumers will purchase the product only if
v− bp + e + δt > 0. Thus, the demand function under the scenario of adopting blockchain
and anti-pandemic strategy can be formulated as follows:
DE =
∫ 1
bp−e−δt
f (v)dv = 1− bp + e + δt. (2)
In addition, in the post-pandemic era, the government can adopt the subsidy strategy
in addition to the anti-pandemic strategy. That is, the government can subsidize the
blockchain traceability level per unit to encourage supply chain members to improve the
blockchain traceability level, ultimately solving consumers’ concerns about product safety
and improving consumers’ utility. We denote the subsidy amount as st, where s > 0
represents the unit subsidy level. This governmental subsidy strategy is common in low-
carbon supply chains and green supply chains [39,40]. As for whether the government
adopts an anti-pandemic strategy or a subsidy strategy, it can be divided into four scenarios
according to the benefits and costs brought by different strategies to the society and the
supply chain. We use subscript j ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4} to denote different scenarios. Specifically,
j = 1 denotes the scenario where the government does not adopt anti-pandemic and
subsidy strategies, i.e., Model-1; j = 2 denotes the scenario where the government adopts
anti-pandemic strategy and does not adopt subsidy strategy, i.e., Model-2; j = 3 denotes the
scenario where the government adopts subsidy strategy and does not adopt anti-pandemic
strategy, i.e., Model-3; j = 4 denotes the scenario where the government adopts anti-
pandemic and subsidy strategies, i.e., Model-4. The key parameters and decision variables
are summarized in Nomenclature.
In the multi-level food supply chain, the supplier, 3PL and retailer are in a Stackel-
berg game, where the 3PL, supplier and retailer are the leader, sub-leader and follower,
respectively. As the leader, the 3PL will bear the blockchain traceability cost and deter-
mine the traceability level. Therefore, governmental subsidy only subsidizes the 3PL. The
decision sequence under the scenario where the 3PL adopts blockchain technology and
the government simultaneously adopts anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies is shown in
Figure 1. First, the government simultaneously decides the anti-pandemic effort level e
and subsidy level s. Then, the 3PL simultaneously determines the traceability level t and
logistics service price m. Finally, the supplier determines the wholesale price w, and the
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 7 of 23
retailer determines the retail price p. In addition, the supply chain members make decisions
with the goal of maximizing their own profits, while the government makes decisions with
the goal of maximizing social welfare.
Figure 1. The event sequence.
4. Model Analysis
In this section, we first analyse the optimal pricing strategy of FSC members, the
optimal traceability level of the 3PL, and the optimal anti-pandemic effort level and subsidy
level of the government under the four scenarios. Then, we explore the impact of consumer
preference for traceability information on the profits and decisions of all parties. Finally,
the profits of supply chain members are compared.
4.1. Model-1
In this case, the government neither invests in anti-pandemic efforts nor implements
subsidy strategy in the post-pandemic era. The sequence of events is illustrated in Figure 1.
The 3PL, supplier, and retailer’s profits are, respectively,
ΠL1 = m1(1− bp1 + δt1)−
1
2
kt2
1, (3)
ΠS1 = (w1 −m1)(1− bp1 + δt1), (4)
ΠR1 = (p1 − w1)(1− bp1 + δt1). (5)
In addition, consumer surplus and social welfare can be formulated as, respectively,
CS1 =
∫ 1
bp1−δt1
(v− bp1 + δt1) f (v)dv, (6)
SW1 = ΠL1 + ΠS1 + ΠR1 + CS1. (7)
Using the backward method to solve Equations (3)–(5) in turn, we can obtain the
following lemma.
Lemma 1. Under Model-1, if k > δ2
8b , the optimal strategies of supply chain are w∗1 = 6k
8bk−δ2 ,
m∗1 = 4k
8bk−δ2 , p∗1 = 7k
8bk−δ2 , t∗1 = δ
8bk−δ2 , respectively.
Lemma 1 shows that each member of the supply chain (i.e., the supplier, 3PL and
retailer) has a unique optimal strategy only if k > δ2
8b . The condition (k > δ2
8b ) means that
under Model-1, the cost of blockchain traceability must be relatively large. When this
condition fails to hold, there can be multiple groups of strategies. For the sake of simplicity,
we only focus on the unique optimal strategy.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 8 of 23
According to Lemma 1, the demand and optimal profits of the supplier, 3PL and
retailer under the Model-1 are as follows:
DB∗
1 =
bk
8bk− δ2 ,
Π∗S1 =
2bk2
(8bk− δ2)2 ,
Π∗L1 =
k
2(8bk− δ2)
,
Π∗R1 =
bk2
(8bk− δ2)2 .
Furthermore, we can derive the consumer surplus and social welfare are, respectively,
CS∗1 =
b2k2
2(8bk− δ2)2 ,
SW∗1 =
k(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
2(8bk− δ2)2 .
4.2. Model-2
In this case, the government adopts anti-pandemic strategy, but does not adopt subsidy
strategy in the post-pandemic era. The sequence of events is illustrated in Figure 1. The
3PL, supplier, and retailer’s profits are, respectively,
ΠL2 = m2(1− bp2 + e2 + δt2)−
1
2
kt2
2, (8)
ΠS2 = (w2 −m2)(1− bp2 + e2 + δt2), (9)
ΠR2 = (p2 − w2)(1− bp2 + e2 + δt2). (10)
In addition, the consumer surplus and social welfare can be formulated as, respectively,
CS2 =
∫ 1
bp2−e2−δt2
(v− bp2 + e2 + δt2) f (v)dv, (11)
SW2 = ΠL2 + ΠS2 + ΠR2 + CS2 −
1
2
he2
2. (12)
Using the backward method to solve Equations (8)–(10) and (12) in turn, we can obtain
the following lemma.
Lemma 2. Under Model-2, if k > δ2
8b and h > k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2 , the optimal strategies of the
multi-level supply chain are e∗2 = k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
h(8bk−δ2)2−k(14bk−δ2+b2k) , w∗2 = 6kh(8bk−δ2)
h(8bk−δ2)2−k(14bk−δ2+b2k) ,
m∗2 = 4kh(8bk−δ2)
h(8bk−δ2)2−k(14bk−δ2+b2k) , p∗2 = 7kh(8bk−δ2)
h(8bk−δ2)2−k(14bk−δ2+b2k) , t∗2 = hδ(8bk−δ2)
h(8bk−δ2)2−k(14bk−δ2+b2k) ,
respectively.
Lemma 2 shows that each member of the supply chain and the government have
a unique optimal strategy only if k > δ2
8b and h > k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2 . The condition (k > δ2
8b )
means that under Model-2, the cost of blockchain traceability must be relatively large and
be the same as Model-1. The condition (h > k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2 ) means that under Model-2,
the cost of the governmental anti-pandemic efforts must be relatively large. If h is too
small, there is no need to explore the optimality and the government will always increase
investment in anti-pandemic efforts.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 9 of 23
According to Lemma 2, we can determine the demand and optimal profits of the
supplier, 3PL and retailer under the Model-2 are as follows:
DE∗
2 =
bkh(8bk− δ2)
h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
,
Π∗S2 =
2bk2h2(8bk− δ2)2
(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
Π∗L2 =
kh2(8bk− δ2)3
2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
Π∗R2 =
bk2h2(8bk− δ2)2
(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 .
Furthermore, we can derive the consumer surplus and social welfare are, respectively,
CS∗2 =
b2k2h2(8bk− δ2)2
2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
SW∗2 =
kh(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
.
4.3. Model-3
In this case, the government adopts subsidy strategy, but does not adopt anti-pandemic
strategy in the post-pandemic era. The sequence of events is illustrated in Figure 1. The
3PL, supplier, and retailer’s profits are, respectively,
ΠL3 = m3(1− bp3 + δt3)−
1
2
kt2
3 + s3t3, (13)
ΠS3 = (w3 −m3)(1− bp3 + δt3), (14)
ΠR3 = (p3 − w3)(1− bp3 + δt3). (15)
In addition, the consumer surplus and social welfare can be formulated as, respectively,
CS3 =
∫ 1
bp3−δt3
(v− bp3 + δt3) f (v)dv, (16)
SW3 = ΠL3 + ΠS3 + ΠR3 + CS3 − s3t3. (17)
Using the backward method to solve Equations (13)–(15) and (17) in turn, we can
obtain the following lemma.
Lemma 3. Under Model-3, if k > (14+b)δ2
64b , the optimal strategies of supply chain are s∗3 =
kδ(6+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) , w∗3 = 48k
64bk−δ2(14+b) , m∗3 = 32k
64bk−δ2(14+b) , p∗3 = 56k
64bk−δ2(14+b) , t∗3 = δ(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) ,
respectively.
Lemma 3 shows that each member of the supply chain and the government have
a unique optimal strategy only if k > (14+b)δ2
64b . The condition (k > (14+b)δ2
64b ) means that
under Model-3, the cost of blockchain traceability must be relatively large. In particular,
compared with Lemma 1, Lemma 3 indicates that, the 3PL must bear higher the traceability
cost. This can be related to governmental subsidy in the FSCs. When the traceability cost is
low, governmental subsidy will not make sense.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 10 of 23
According to Lemma 3, the demand and optimal profits of the supplier, 3PL and
retailer under the Model-3 are as follows:
DB∗
3 =
8bk
64bk− δ2(14 + b)
,
Π∗S3 =
128bk2
(64bk− δ2(14 + b))2 ,
Π∗L3 =
k(8bk(512bk + δ2(12b + b2 − 92)) + δ4(2− b)(14 + b))
2(8bk− δ2)(64bk− δ2(14 + b))2 ,
Π∗R3 =
64bk2
(64bk− δ2(14 + b))2 .
Furthermore, we can derive the consumer surplus and social welfare are, respectively,
CS∗3 =
32b2k2
(64bk− δ2(14 + b))2 ,
SW∗3 =
k(8bk(64bk(14 + b)− δ2(36b + b2 + 308)) + δ4(14 + b)2)
2(8bk− δ2)(64bk− δ2(14 + b))2 .
4.4. Model-4
In this case, the government is not only adopting anti-pandemic strategy but also
providing blockchain traceability subsidies in the post-pandemic era. The sequence of
events is illustrated in Figure 1. The 3PL, supplier, and retailer’s profits are, respectively,
ΠL4 = m4(1− bp4 + e4 + δt4)−
1
2
kt2
4 + s4t4, (18)
ΠS4 = (w4 −m4)(1− bp4 + e4 + δt4), (19)
ΠR4 = (p4 − w4)(1− bp4 + e4 + δt4). (20)
In addition, the consumer surplus and social welfare can be formulated as, respectively,
CS4 =
∫ 1
bp4−e4−δt4
(v− bp4 + e4 + δt4) f (v)dv, (21)
SW4 = ΠL4 + ΠS4 + ΠR4 + CS4 − s4t4 −
1
2
he2
4. (22)
Using the backward method to solve Equations (18)–(20) and (22) in turn, we can
obtain the following lemma.
Lemma 4. Under Model-4, if k > (14+b)δ2
64b and h > k(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) , the optimal strategies of the food
supply chain are s∗4 = hkδ(6+b)
64bkh−(hδ2+k)(14+b) , e∗4 = k(14+b)
64bkh−(hδ2+k)(14+b) , w∗4 = 48kh
64bkh−(hδ2+k)(14+b) ,
m∗4 = 32kh
64bkh−(hδ2+k)(14+b) , p∗4 = 56kh
64bkh−(hδ2+k)(14+b) , t∗4 = hδ(14+b)
64bkh−(hδ2+k)(14+b) , respectively.
Lemma 4 shows that each member of the supply chain and the government have
a unique optimal strategy only if k > (14+b)δ2
64b and h > k(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) . The condition
(k > (14+b)δ2
64b ) means that under Model-4, the cost of blockchain traceability must be
relatively large and is the same as Model-3. The condition (h > k(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) ) means that
under Model-4, the cost of the governmental anti-pandemic efforts must be relatively large.
Compared with Lemma 2, Lemma 4 indicates that the government must bear higher the
anti-pandemic cost. This can be also related to governmental subsidy in the blockchain-
enabled FSCs.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 11 of 23
By Lemma 4, the demand and optimal profits of the supplier, 3PL and retailer under
the Model-4 are as follows:
DE∗
4 =
8bkh
64bkh− (hδ2 + k)(14 + b)
,
Π∗S4 =
128bk2h2
(64bkh− (hδ2 + k)(14 + b))2 ,
Π∗L4 =
kh2(8bk(512bk + δ2(12b + b2 − 92)) + δ4(2− b)(14 + b))
2(8bk− δ2)(64bkh− (hδ2 + k)(14 + b))2 ,
Π∗R4 =
64bk2h2
(64bkh− (hδ2 + k)(14 + b))2 .
Furthermore, we can derive the consumer surplus and social welfare are, respectively,
CS∗4 =
32b2k2h2
(64bkh− (hδ2 + k)(14 + b))2 ,
SW∗4 =
kh(8bkh(64bk(14 + b)− δ2(36b + b2 + 308))− (14 + b)2(8bk2 − kδ2 − hδ4))
2(8bk− δ2)(64bkh− (hδ2 + k)(14 + b))2 .
By Lemmas 1–4, we can obtain the following corollaries.
Corollary 1. (1) ∂s∗3
∂δ > 0, ∂s∗4
∂δ > 0, ∂e∗2
∂δ > 0, ∂e∗4
∂δ > 0,
∂D∗j
∂δ > 0,
∂t∗j
∂δ > 0, and
∂p∗j
∂δ >
∂w∗j
∂δ >
∂m∗j
∂δ > 0.
(2)
∂Π∗Sj
∂δ > 0,
∂Π∗Rj
∂δ > 0,
∂CS∗j
∂δ > 0, ∂Π∗Ln
∂δ > 0, and ∂SW∗n
∂δ > 0, where n = {1, 2}.
Corollary 1-(1) shows that, when the 3PL adopts blockchain technology, the anti-
pandemic effort level, subsidy level, demand, optimal prices and traceability level increase
with the consumer preference for traceability information δ. In particular, for the optimal
prices, it has the greatest impact on wholesale prices and the least impact on logistics
service prices. This is because, as the consumer preference for traceability information
increases, supply chain members hope to obtain more product information to meet the
market demand, thereby increasing the cost of 3PL. Thus, the 3PL would increase his
prices to improve his profits. Then, the supplier and retailer would increase their prices
to improve their profits. At the same time, the government will increase the subsidy
level to encourage the 3PL to improve the traceability information level. This is similar
to Wu et al. [1]. Interestingly, since the benefits of consumer preference for traceability
information far outweigh the costs of increased anti-pandemic efforts, the governmental
anti-pandemic effort level will also increase.
Corollary 1-(2) shows that, the profits of members, consumer surplus and social
welfare increase with the consumer preference for traceability information. Therefore,
the government should improve consumers’ awareness of epidemic prevention, thereby
increasing consumer preference for product information traceability, which can ultimately
improve the profit of supply chain and the overall social benefits.
Corollary 2. (1) Π∗Sj = 2Π∗Rj.
(2) If δ2
8b < k ≤ δ2
6b , then Π∗Ln ≤ Π∗Rn < Π∗Sn; if δ2
6b < k ≤ δ2
4b , then Π∗Rn < Π∗Ln ≤ Π∗Sn; if
k > δ2
4b , then Π∗Rn < Π∗Sn < Π∗Ln, where n = {1, 2}.
Corollary 2 shows that, in any case, the profit of the supplier is always twice the
profit of the retailer. This can be related to their rights and status in the multi-level supply
chain. When governmental subsidy is not considered, the relationship between the profit
of the 3PL and the profits of the supplier and retailer are affected by the traceability cost
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 12 of 23
coefficient k. Specifically, when the traceability cost coefficient is relatively large (k > δ2
4b ),
the profit of the 3PL is always higher than the profits of the supplier and retailer. To our
common knowledge, the smaller k leads to the smaller blockchain traceability cost and the
higher profit for the 3PL. But, surprisingly, from Corollary 2, when there is no governmental
subsidy, if k is small, the profit of 3PL is smaller than that of the supplier and retailer; if k
is large, the profit of 3PL is higher. So, enterprises should adopt a much more proactive
approach to implement blockchain traceability even when the cost coefficient is high and
there is no governmental subsidy.
When considering governmental subsidy, the relationship between the profits of
supply chain members is not clear, therefore, we will analyze their relationship through
numerical analysis. As in Wu et al. [1] and Yang et al. [6], we use the following basic
parameter values for our analysis: b = 0.5, k = 5, h = 15. Figure 2 shows that, the
profit of the 3PL increases with the consumer preference for traceability information δ.
Moreover, when considering governmental subsidy strategy and regardless of whether the
governmental anti-pandemic strategy is considered, the profit of the 3PL is always higher
than the profits of the supplier and retailer. Also, from Corollary 2-(1), the profit of the
retailer is the smallest (i.e., Π∗L3 > Π∗S3 > Π∗R3 and Π∗L4 > Π∗S4 > Π∗R4). The leader gains
the most. Thus, this is consistent with the traditional wisdom.
Figure 2. The impact of δ on the profits of supply chain members.
5. Model Comparison
In this section, we mainly explore three questions. First, under the scenario of with
or without governmental subsidy, we explore whether the government should adopt anti-
pandemic strategy in the post-pandemic era, and how the anti-pandemic strategy affects the
optimal decisions and profits of supply chain members (i.e., Model-1 vs. Model-2, Model-3
vs. Model-4). Then, under the scenario of with or without governmental anti-pandemic
strategy, we explore whether the government should provide subsidies for the 3PL with
blockchain traceability in the post-pandemic era, and how the subsidy strategy affects
optimal decisions and profits (i.e., Model-1 vs. Model-3, Model-2 vs. Model-4). Finally,
when the government only adopts subsidy or anti-pandemic strategy, which strategy is
more beneficial to supply chain members, consumers and society (i.e., Model-2 vs. Model-3).
5.1. Analysis of Governmental Anti-Pandemic Strategy
By comparing Model-1 and -2, Model-3 and -4, the following three propositions can
be obtained.
Proposition 1. (1) When governmental subsidy strategy is not considered, t∗2 > t∗1 , w∗2 > w∗1 ,
m∗2 > m∗1 , p∗2 > p∗1 , and DE∗
2 > DB∗
1 .
(2) When considering governmental subsidy strategy, s∗4 > s∗3 , t∗4 > t∗3 , w∗4 > w∗3 , m∗4 > m∗3 ,
p∗4 > p∗3 , and DE∗
4 > DB∗
3 .
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 13 of 23
Proposition 1 shows that, regardless of whether the government provides subsidies
for blockchain technology, the demand, optimal prices and traceability level under the
anti-pandemic strategy are higher than those without the anti-pandemic strategy. When
considering governmental subsidy strategy, the subsidy level under the anti-pandemic
strategy is also higher. The reason is that, when the government implements the anti-
pandemic strategy, it can improve the utility of consumers and thus increase market
demand. In order to obtain greater benefits, the retailer will increase retail prices, which in
turn will allow the supplier to increase wholesale prices and the 3PL to increase logistics
service prices. At this time, the 3PL will have more funds and incentives to improve the
traceability level to further increase demand. At the same time, the government will have
more funds to provide subsidies and encourage the 3PL to improve the traceability level.
Proposition 2. When governmental subsidy strategy is not considered, (1) Π∗S2 > Π∗S1, Π∗L2 >
Π∗L1, Π∗R2 > Π∗R1; (2) CS∗2 > CS∗1 , SW∗2 > SW∗1 .
Proposition 2 shows that, when governmental subsidy strategy is not considered, the
governmental anti-pandemic strategy can improve the profits of supply chain members,
as well as consumer surplus and social welfare, so as to achieve a win-win situation for
all parties. It can be seen from Proposition 1 that under the governmental anti-pandemic
strategy, the market demand and prices will increase, which will increase the profits of the
supplier and retailer. For the 3PL, the benefits brought by the increase in logistics service
prices and traceability level are greater than the increase in traceability cost, so the profit of
3PL will be increased. An increase in consumers’ utility results in an increase in consumer
surplus. The benefits of the governmental anti-pandemic strategy to the supply chain are
far greater than the cost of implementing the anti-pandemic strategy, thereby improving
social welfare. Therefore, even in the post-pandemic era, the government should not give
up anti-pandemic efforts, the benefits of which far outweigh the costs when governmental
subsidy strategy is not considered.
Proposition 3. When considering governmental subsidy strategy, (1) Π∗S4 > Π∗S3, Π∗L4 > Π∗L3,
Π∗R4 > Π∗R3; (2) CS∗4 > CS∗3 ; (3) If k(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) < h ≤ kA(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) , then SW∗4 ≤ SW∗3 ; if
h > kA(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b) , then SW∗4 > SW∗3 , where A = 8bk(64bk(14+b)−δ2(b2+36b+308))+δ4(14+b)2
(14+b)(8bk−δ2)(64bk−δ2(14+b))+128bkδ2 .
Proposition 3 shows that, when the government provides subsidy strategy for blockchain
traceability, similar to Proposition 2, the governmental anti-pandemic strategy can improve
the profits of supply chain members and consumer surplus. Interestingly, a lower cost
coefficient of anti-pandemic effort h harms the social welfare under the anti-pandemic
strategy. This is contrary to our common sense. The reason is that, on the one hand, the low
cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort will increase the level of anti-pandemic effort exces-
sively, resulting in a sharp increase in the cost of anti-pandemic effort and anti-pandemic
effect; on the other hand, this will lead the government to reduce the subsidy level a little,
at this time, the traceability level and cost will be lower, and the utility of traceability
to consumers is reduced. But, the positive effect of the increase of anti-pandemic effort
level is less than its negative effect. Ultimately, the social welfare is reduced. This shows
that when considering the governmental subsidy strategy, the low cost of anti-pandemic
effort will reduce social welfare, that is, the anti-pandemic strategy can be not good for
the whole society. Comparing Propositions 2 and 3, it can be found that governmental
subsidy may weaken the social benefits of government anti-pandemic strategy. Therefore,
the government should combine anti-pandemic with subsidy strategies and keep both
strategies at a reasonable level.
5.2. Analysis of Governmental Subsidy Strategy
By comparing Model-1 and -3, Model-2 and -4, the following three propositions can
be obtained.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 14 of 23
Proposition 4. (1) When the governmental anti-pandemic strategy is not considered, t∗3 > t∗1 ,
w∗3 > w∗1 , m∗3 > m∗1 , p∗3 > p∗1 , and DB∗
3 > DB∗
1 .
(2) When considering the governmental anti-pandemic strategy, e∗4 > e∗2 , t∗4 > t∗2 , w∗4 > w∗2 ,
m∗4 > m∗2 , p∗4 > p∗2 , and DE∗
4 > DE∗
2 .
Proposition 4 shows that, regardless of whether the government implements the anti-
pandemic strategy, the demand, optimal prices and traceability level under the subsidy
strategy are higher than those without the subsidy strategy. When considering the gov-
ernmental anti-pandemic strategy, the level of anti-pandemic effort under the subsidy
strategy is also higher. The reason is that, when the government implements subsidy
strategy, it can incentivize the 3PL to improve the level of blockchain traceability, thus the
market demand is increased. Similar to Proposition 1, in order to obtain greater benefits,
the retailer will increase retail prices, which in turn will allow the supplier to increase
wholesale prices. The 3PL will also increase the logistics service prices in order to ensure its
own profits and recover the increased traceability cost. In order to prevent the excessively
high subsidy level leading to a sharp increase in the cost of traceability and a decrease in
demand, the government will increase the anti-pandemic effort level when considering the
governmental subsidy strategy.
Proposition 5. When the governmental anti-pandemic strategy is not considered, (1) Π∗S3 > Π∗S1,
Π∗L3 > Π∗L1, Π∗R3 > Π∗R1; (2) CS∗3 > CS∗1 , SW∗3 > SW∗1 .
Proposition 5 shows that, when the governmental anti-pandemic strategy is not
considered, the governmental subsidy strategy can improve the profits of supply chain
members, as well as consumer surplus and social welfare, so as to achieve a win-win
situation for all parties. This is similar to Proposition 2.
Proposition 6. When considering the governmental anti-pandemic strategy, (1) Π∗S4 > Π∗S2, Π∗R4 >
Π∗R2; (2) CS∗4 > CS∗2 ; (3) If h > max
{
k(14+b)(bkB−(8bk−δ2)2)−kBδ2
(B+δ2(14+b)−64bk)(8bk−δ2)2 , k(14+b)
64bk−δ2(14+b)
}
, then Π∗L4 >
Π∗L2, otherwise Π∗L4 ≤ Π∗L2, where B =
√
8bk(512bk + δ2(12b + b2 − 92)) + δ4(2− b)(14 + b).
Proposition 6 shows that, when the government adopts anti-pandemic strategy, similar
to Proposition 5, the governmental subsidy strategy can improve the profits of the supplier
and retailer, as well as consumer surplus. When the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort
h is large, the profit of 3PL under the subsidy strategy is higher. The reason is that, the
high cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort will increase the cost of anti-pandemic effort
for the government. Therefore, in order to ensure high social welfare, the government
will reduce the anti-pandemic effort level. At this time, the market demand will also
decrease. However, when the government adopts the subsidy strategy, the government can
encourage the 3PL to improve the traceability level through subsidy, so as to achieve an
increase in demand. The increase in benefits brought about by the increase in subsidy level
and prices is greater than the increase in traceability cost. Therefore, the profit of the 3PL
becomes larger. Comparing Propositions 5 and 6, it can be found that the governmental
anti-pandemic strategy may weaken the benefits of governmental subsidy to the 3PL.
As can be seen from Figure 3, the social welfare under the subsidy strategy is always
higher than that without the subsidy strategy (i.e., SW∗4 > SW∗2 ). The parameter settings
are the same as above. Moreover, the social welfare increases with the consumer preference
for traceability information δ. Therefore, as long as the conditions for the increase of the
3PL’s profit are met, the subsidy strategy can achieve a win-win situation for all parties
and improve the overall social benefits when considering the governmental anti-pandemic
strategy. Combining Proposition 6 and Figure 3, we find that the higher the governmental
anti-pandemic cost coefficient, the higher the total benefit to the supply chain, and vice versa.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 15 of 23
Figure 3. The impact of δ on the social welfare.
5.3. Comparative Analysis of Governmental Anti-Pandemic and Subsidy Strategies
In this subsection, we consider which strategy is more beneficial to supply chain
members, consumers, and society when the government adopts only one strategy, i.e.,
compare the effects of the two strategies (anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies) in the
post-pandemic era. By comparing Model-2 and -3, the following propositions are obtained.
Proposition 7. (1) If (14+b)δ2
64b < k ≤ 8
14+b , then t∗3 < t∗2 .
(2) If k > max
{
8
14+b , (14+b)δ2
64b
}
, then when h > max
{
k(14+b)(14bk−δ2+b2k)
8b(k(14+b)−8)(8bk−δ2)
, k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2
}
,
t∗3 > t∗2 , otherwise t∗3 ≤ t∗2 .
Proposition 7 shows that, the traceability information level based on blockchain
technology is related to the cost coefficient of traceability and anti-pandemic effort (i.e., k
and h). Specifically, when the cost coefficient of traceability k is small, the traceability level
under the subsidy strategy is lower than that under the anti-pandemic strategy. Surprisingly,
this shows that, compared with the governmental anti-pandemic strategy, the governmental
subsidy for blockchain traceability will actually reduce the traceability level of the 3PL. The
government should first decide which strategy to adopt based on the cost coefficient of
traceability, otherwise it will affect the application of blockchain technology. When the cost
coefficient of traceability is large, only when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort
h is greater than a threshold, the traceability level under the subsidy strategy is higher
than that under the anti-pandemic strategy. The governmental anti-pandemic effort has
increased market demand and increased retail prices. In order to obtain more profits, the
3PL will increase the traceability level. At the same time, the governmental subsidy can
also promote the 3PL to improve the traceability level, but when the cost coefficient of
traceability is small, the governmental subsidy is also lower, so that the traceability level
does not increase much. Therefore, the traceability level is lower under the subsidy strategy.
However, when the cost coefficient of traceability is large, the governmental subsidy is
also higher, so that the traceability level increases. At the same time, due to the large cost
coefficient of anti-pandemic effort and the lower level of anti-pandemic effort, the demand
and retail price are not high. In order to reduce cost, the 3PL will reduce the traceability
level. Therefore, the traceability level is higher under the subsidy strategy.
Proposition 8. (1) If k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2 < h < 8k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
δ2(6+b)(8bk−δ2)
, then w∗3 < w∗2 , m∗3 < m∗2 , p∗3 < p∗2 ,
DB∗
3 < DE∗
2 , Π∗S3 < Π∗S2, Π∗R3 < Π∗R2, and CS∗3 < CS∗2 ;
(2) If h ≥ 8k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
δ2(6+b)(8bk−δ2)
, then w∗3 ≥ w∗2 , m∗3 ≥ m∗2 , p∗3 ≥ p∗2 , DB∗
3 ≥ DE∗
2 , Π∗S3 ≥ Π∗S2,
Π∗R3 ≥ Π∗R2, and CS∗3 ≥ CS∗2 .
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 16 of 23
Proposition 8 shows that, when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort h is small,
the demand, optimal prices, profits of the supplier and retailer and consumer surplus
under the subsidy strategy are lower than those under the anti-pandemic strategy. On the
contrary, when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort is greater than a threshold, the
demand, optimal prices, profits of the supplier and retailer and consumer surplus under the
subsidy strategy are higher than those under the anti-pandemic strategy. The smaller the
cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort, the lower the anti-pandemic cost. The government
will invest in a higher level of anti-pandemic effort. At this time, the market demand and
optimal prices will increase, thereby the profits of the supplier and retailer and consumer
surplus will also be higher. The profit of 3PL and social welfare are directly related to the
traceability level and subsidy level. Correlation comparisons are complex, therefore, we
will next compare them through numerical analysis. It is illustrated in Figure 4, and the
parameter settings are the same as above.
In Figure 4, Region I represents that Π∗L2 > Π∗L3 and SW∗2 > SW∗3 , i.e., both the
government and 3PL prefer to choose anti-pandemic strategy. Region II represents that
Π∗L2 < Π∗L3 and SW∗2 > SW∗3 , i.e., the government prefers to choose anti-pandemic strategy,
but the 3PL prefers to choose subsidy strategy. Region III represents that Π∗L2 < Π∗L3 and
SW∗2 < SW∗3 , i.e., both the government and 3PL prefer to choose subsidy strategy. Figure 4
shows that, when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort h and the consumer preference
for traceability information δ are low, the cost of anti-pandemic and the traceability effect of
blockchain are low. At this time, the benefits brought by anti-pandemic strategy are higher
than those brought by the subsidy strategy. Therefore, the government will choose the
anti-pandemic strategy. The 3PL will also choose the anti-pandemic strategy to avoid high
traceability cost. On the contrary, when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort h and
the consumer preference for traceability information δ are high, the cost of anti-pandemic
is high and the benefits brought by traceability are high. At this time, the subsidy strategy
can motivate the 3PL to improve the traceability level. Ultimately, the subsidy strategy
brings greater benefits than the anti-pandemic strategy. Since the government is the leader
in the choice of anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies, in order to maximize social benefits,
the government is very likely to adopt an anti-pandemic strategy instead of a subsidy
strategy. Only when the consumer preference for traceability information is improved
will the government adopt a subsidy strategy. Therefore, combining Proposition 8, we
know that when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort h and the consumer preference
for traceability information δ are low, the anti-pandemic strategy can make supply chain
members, consumers and governments win-win. On the contrary, the subsidy strategy is
more beneficial to all parties.
Figure 4. The choice of anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies for the government and 3PL.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 17 of 23
6. Implications
Our paper has important theoretical and practical implications. Academically, in the
context of considering the use of blockchain technology for product information traceability
by the 3PL, this paper examines the value of governmental strategies for supply chain
members, consumers and society, and explores whether the government chooses anti-
pandemic or subsidy strategy in the post-pandemic era. To the best of our knowledge,
this is the first attempt to study the impact of the governmental strategy selection on the
pricing for food, the profits of the supply chain members, the consumer surplus and social
welfare in the post-pandemic era. We quantitatively incorporate blockchain technology and
consumer preference for traceability information into food traceability, which is our main
contribution in modeling. In this way, we have done some preliminary studies on food
supply chain traceability and epidemic prevention, which will help relevant researchers
find follow-up research topics.
In practice, food safety is an important issue that needs attention from all parties,
especially in the post-pandemic era. Governmental strategies and technological investment
by enterprises are key to solving this problem. From our research results, we can obtain the
following important managerial implications:
On the one hand, the government should raise consumers’ awareness of epidemic pre-
vention, thereby increasing consumer preference for product information traceability, and
ultimately improving supply chain and overall social benefits. The governmental strategies
are essential for recovery of supply chain that has experienced the impact of the epidemic,
and even in the post-pandemic era, government should not abandon epidemic prevention
measures. It is best to adopt anti-pandemic and subsidy strategies simultaneously. Only
by promoting the joint efforts of government and enterprises to fight the epidemic is the
best choice.
On the other hand, as the leader of the supply chain, the 3PL should improve the
traceability information level based on blockchain technology to cooperate with the gov-
ernmental strategies, especially when the consumer preference for traceability information
is relatively high. When the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort is relatively small and
the government has implemented an anti-pandemic strategy, then the 3PL should not
accept governmental subsidy. Only by vigorously supporting the government to fight the
epidemic can more profits be made. For other parties, such as the supplier, retailer and
consumers, more profits can be obtained by actively cooperating and raising prices.
7. Conclusions
Our results can be summarized as:
First, in the four scenarios, the anti-pandemic effort level and subsidy level of the gov-
ernment, the demand, the optimal prices and traceability level increase with the consumer
preference for traceability information, and the profits of members, consumer surplus
and social welfare also increase with the consumer preference for traceability information.
Moreover, the governmental subsidy strategy can make blockchain-enabled 3PL the most
profitable and the retailer is the least profitable. Surprisingly, regardless of whether the
government implements the anti-pandemic strategy, when governmental subsidy strategy
is not considered, the smaller the cost coefficient of traceability, the profit of 3PL is not
larger than that of the supplier and retailer, but smaller.
Second, regardless of whether the government provides subsidies for blockchain
traceability, the demand, optimal prices, traceability level, profits of supply chain members
and consumer surplus under the anti-pandemic strategy are higher than those without
the anti-pandemic strategy. Specifically, when the governmental subsidy strategy is not
considered, the governmental anti-pandemic strategy can improve social welfare, so as to
achieve a win-win situation. When the government provides subsidies for traceability, the
subsidy level under the anti-pandemic strategy is higher, but only when the cost coefficient
of anti-pandemic effort is large, the social welfare is higher, otherwise the social welfare
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 18 of 23
under the anti-pandemic strategy is lower. Moreover, the governmental subsidy may
weaken the social benefits of governmental anti-pandemic strategy.
Third, regardless of whether the government implements the anti-pandemic strategy,
the demand, optimal prices, traceability level, profits of the supplier and retailer, consumer
surplus and social welfare under the subsidy strategy are higher than those without
the subsidy strategy. Moreover, when the governmental anti-pandemic strategy is not
considered, the governmental subsidy strategy can improve the profit of 3PL. However,
considering the governmental anti-pandemic strategy, only when the cost coefficient of
anti-pandemic effort is large, the profit of 3PL under the subsidy strategy is higher. The
government is willing to pay a greater anti-pandemic effort level under the subsidy strategy.
In addition, we find that when the governmental anti-pandemic strategy is considered, the
higher the governmental anti-pandemic cost coefficient, the higher the total benefit to the
supply chain, and vice versa. The governmental anti-pandemic strategy may weaken the
benefits of governmental subsidy to the 3PL.
Finally, in the scenario where the government can only adopt one strategy, we find that
when the cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort is small, the demand, optimal prices, prof-
its of the supplier and retailer and consumer surplus under the subsidy strategy are lower
than those under the anti-pandemic strategy. The traceability level based on blockchain
technology is related to the cost coefficient of traceability and anti-pandemic effort. Inter-
estingly, when the cost coefficient of traceability is small, the governmental subsidy for
blockchain traceability will actually reduce the traceability level of the 3PL. It shows that
the government should first decide which strategy to adopt based on the cost coefficient of
traceability, otherwise it will affect the application of blockchain technology. When the cost
coefficient of anti-pandemic effort and the consumer preference for traceability information
are low, the anti-pandemic strategy can make all parties win-win. On the contrary, the
subsidy strategy is more beneficial to all parties.
This study has several limitations and possible extensions. First, we only consider
that the 3PL bears the blockchain traceability cost and determines the traceability level, but
Yang et al. [6] showed that when the supply chain members participate in the application
and decision-making of the blockchain, the supply chain profit is the largest. Therefore, the
next thing to consider is a scenario where both the supplier and retailer adopt blockchain
traceability. Second, we only consider governmental subsidy for the 3PL using blockchain
traceability. In the process of epidemic prevention, the supplier and retailer also play a large
role. Considering subsidies for all members of the supply chain is also worth exploring [7].
We hope that this paper can inspire more research work on the application of blockchain
technology and governmental epidemic prevention.
Author Contributions: Formal analysis, C.L.; methodology, Q.L.; supervision, Y.S.; writing—original
draft, C.L.; writing—review and editing, Q.L. All authors have read and agreed to the published
version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research is supported by the Zhejiang Provincial Natural Sciences Foundation of
China (Nos. LY22G020007) and Natural Science Foundation of China (Nos. 71672179).
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the study.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 19 of 23
Nomenclature
Notations Descriptions
Decision variables
p The retail price per unit product
w The wholesale price per unit product
m The 3PL’s logistics service price per unit product
t The traceability information level based on blockchain technology,
hereafter traceability level
e The governmental anti-pandemic effort level
s The governmental subsidy level per unit traceability level
Parameters
b The price sensitivity of the product, b > 0
k The cost coefficient of traceability by using blockchain
technology, k > 0
h The cost coefficient of anti-pandemic effort, h > 0
δ The consumer preference for traceability information, δ > 0
D The market demand
ΠL The 3PL’s profit function
ΠS The supplier’s profit function
ΠR The retailer’s profit function
CS The consumer surplus
SW The social welfare
Appendix A
Proof to Lemma 1. By Equation (5), we can determine first-order and second-order deriva-
tives of ΠR1 with respect to p1, i.e., ∂ΠR1
∂p1
= 1− 2bp1 + δt1 + bw1 and ∂2ΠR1
∂p2
1
= −2b. Obvi-
ously, ∂2ΠR1
∂p2
1
< 0 holds. By first-order condition ∂ΠR1
∂p1
= 0, we have
p1 =
1 + δt1 + bw1
2b
. (A1)
Substituting Equation (A1) into Equation (4), we can determine first-order and second-
order derivatives of ΠS1 with respect to w1, i.e., ∂ΠS1
∂w1
= 1−2bw1+δt1+bm1
2 and ∂2ΠS1
∂w2
1
= −b.
Obviously, ∂2ΠS1
∂w2
1
< 0 holds. By first-order condition ∂ΠS1
∂w1
= 0, we have
w1 =
1 + δt1 + bm1
2b
. (A2)
Substituting Equations (A1) and (A2) into Equation (3), we can determine first-order
and second-order derivatives of ΠL1 with respect to m1 and t1, i.e., ∂ΠL1
∂m1
= 1+δt1−2bm1
4 ,
∂2ΠL1
∂m2
1
= − b
2 , ∂ΠL1
∂t1
= m1δ−4kt1
4 , ∂2ΠL1
∂t2
1
= −k, ∂2ΠL1
∂m1∂t1
= ∂2ΠL1
∂t1∂m1
= δ
4 , then the Hessian matrix is
H(m1, t1) =
 ∂2ΠL1
∂m2
1
∂2ΠL1
∂m1∂t1
∂2ΠL1
∂t1∂m1
∂2ΠL1
∂t2
1
 =
[
− b
2
δ
4
δ
4 −k
]
. (A3)
Obviously, |H(m1, t1)| = 8bk−δ2
16 , ∂2ΠL1
∂m2
1
< 0 and ∂2ΠL1
∂t2
1
< 0, only when |H(m1, t1)| > 0
is satisfied, i.e., k > δ2
8b , H(m1, t1) is a negative definite matrix, which implies that ΠL1
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 20 of 23
jointly concave in (m1, t1). The unique optimal m∗1 and t∗1 should satisfy the first-order
conditions. Hence, we have
m∗1 =
4k
8bk− δ2 , t∗1 =
δ
8bk− δ2 . (A4)
Substituting Equation (A4) into Equations (A1) and (A2), we can determine the optimal
strategies, i.e., w∗1 = 6k
8bk−δ2 , p∗1 = 7k
8bk−δ2 . Therefore, Lemma 1 holds.
Proof to Lemma 2–4. The proofs are similar to the proof of Lemma 1, so they are omit-
ted.
Proof to Corollary 1. According to Lemma 1 and DB∗
1 , we can determine first-order deriva-
tives of the demand, the optimal prices and traceability level of the 3PL with respect
to δ, i.e.,
∂DB∗
1
∂δ
=
2δbk
(8bk− δ2)2 > 0, (A5)
∂t∗1
∂δ
=
8bk + δ2
(8bk− δ2)2 > 0, (A6)
∂p∗1
∂δ
=
14δk
(8bk− δ2)2 > 0, (A7)
∂m∗1
∂δ
=
8δk
(8bk− δ2)2 > 0, (A8)
∂w∗1
∂δ
=
12δk
(8bk− δ2)2 > 0. (A9)
Likewise, we can obtain the similar results from Lemmas 2–4, the demand, supply
members’ profits, consumer surplus and social welfare. Hence, (1) and (2) of Corollary 1
hold.
Proof to Corollary 2. From Π∗S1 and Π∗R1, obviously, Π∗S1 = 2Π∗R1. Then, according to the
profits of the supply chain members under the Model-1, we have
Π∗L1 −Π∗R1 =
k(6bk− δ2)
2(8bk− δ2)2 , (A10)
Π∗L1 −Π∗S1 =
k(4bk− δ2)
2(8bk− δ2)2 . (A11)
By Equation (A10), we can know that when k > δ2
6b , we have Π∗L1 > Π∗R1, otherwise
Π∗L1 ≤ Π∗R1. By Equation (A11), we can know that when k > δ2
4b , we have Π∗L1 > Π∗S1,
otherwise Π∗L1 ≤ Π∗S1. Finally, according to Π∗S1 > Π∗R1, we have that if δ2
8b < k ≤ δ2
6b ,
then Π∗L1 ≤ Π∗R1 < Π∗S1; if δ2
6b < k ≤ δ2
4b , then Π∗R1 < Π∗L1 ≤ Π∗S1; if k > δ2
4b , then
Π∗R1 < Π∗S1 < Π∗L1. Likewise, we can obtain the similar results from the Model-2, Model-3
and Model-4. Hence, (1) and (2) of Corollary 2 hold.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 21 of 23
Proof to Proposition 1. According to Lemmas 1 and 2, by comparing the traceability levels,
optimal prices, and demand, respectively, we have
t∗2 − t∗1 =
δk(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
,
w∗2 − w∗1 =
6k2(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
,
m∗2 −m∗1 =
4k2(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
,
p∗2 − p∗1 =
7k2(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
,
DE∗
2 − DB∗
1 =
bk2(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
.
According to the conditions k > δ2
8b and h > k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2 , we can obtain that t∗2 − t∗1 >
0, w∗2 − w∗1 > 0, m∗2 −m∗1 > 0, p∗2 − p∗1 > 0, DE∗
2 − DB∗
1 > 0. Thus, Corollary 2-(1) holds.
Likewise, we can obtain the similar results from Lemmas 3 and 4, hence, Corollary 2-(2)
also holds.
Proof to Proposition 2. According to the supply members’ profits, consumer surplus and
social welfare, by comparing them, respectively, we have
Π∗R2 −Π∗R1 =
bk3(2h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
Π∗S2 −Π∗S1 =
2bk3(2h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
(8bk− δ2)2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
Π∗L2 −Π∗L1 =
k2(2h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
2(8bk− δ2)(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
CS∗2 − CS∗1 =
b2k3(2h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))(14bk− δ2 + b2k)
2(8bk− δ2)2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))2 ,
SW∗2 − SW∗1 =
k2(14bk− δ2 + b2k)2
2(8bk− δ2)2(h(8bk− δ2)2 − k(14bk− δ2 + b2k))
.
According to the conditions k > δ2
8b and h > k(14bk−δ2+b2k)
(8bk−δ2)2 , we can obtain that Π∗R2 −
Π∗R1 > 0, Π∗S2 − Π∗S1 > 0, Π∗L2 − Π∗L1 > 0, CS∗2 − CS∗1 > 0, SW∗2 − SW∗1 > 0. Thus,
Proposition 2 holds.
Proof to Proposition 3–8. The proofs are similar to the proof of Propositions 1 and 2, so
they are omitted.
References
1. Wu, X.; Fan, Z.; Cao, B. An analysis of strategies for adopting blockchain technology in the fresh product supply chain. Int. J.
Prod. Res. 2021. [CrossRef]
2. McKinsey and Company. A Shift to Digital: How COVID-19 Has Changed Selling Models. 2020. Available online: https:
//covid.mckinsey.com/b2b-sales/ (accessed on 5 March 2021).
3. Emerson. Coldchain Consumer Survey during COVID-19. 2020. Available online: https://climate.emerson.cn/documents/
presentation-cold-chain-consumer-survey-during-covid-19-zh-cn-7205926.pdf/ (accessed on 5 February 2021).
4. Kamble, S.; Gunasekaran, A.; Arha, H. Understanding the Blockchain Technology Adoption in Supply Chains-Indian Context.
Int. J. Prod. Res. 2019, 57, 2009–2033. [CrossRef]
5. Kshetri, N. Blockchain’s Roles in Meeting Key Supply Chain Management Objectives. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2018, 39, 80–89.
[CrossRef]
6. Yang, L.; Zhang, J.; Shi, X. Can blockchain help food supply chains with platform operations during the COVID-19 outbreak?
Electron. Commer. Res. Appl. 2021, 49, 101093. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2021.1894497
https://covid.mckinsey.com/b2b-sales/
https://covid.mckinsey.com/b2b-sales/
https://climate.emerson.cn/documents/presentation-cold-chain-consumer-survey-during-covid-19-zh-cn-7205926.pdf/
https://climate.emerson.cn/documents/presentation-cold-chain-consumer-survey-during-covid-19-zh-cn-7205926.pdf/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1518610
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2017.12.005
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2021.101093
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34566540
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 22 of 23
7. Yang, S.; Qian, W. Effect of government subsidies on supply chain decision-making and coordination in the context of COVID-19.
RAIRO-Oper. Res. 2021, 55, 1885–1907. [CrossRef]
8. Su, W.; Guo, X.; Ling, Y.; Fan, Y. China’s SMEs Developed Characteristics and Countermeasures in the Post-Epidemic Era. Front.
Psychol. 2022, 13, 842646. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
9. Ministry of Power. National Ujala Dashboard IEESL. 2017. Available online: http://www.ujala.gov.in/ (accessed on 19 November
2017).
10. Fan, Z.; Wu, X.; Cao, B. Considering the traceability awareness of consumers: Should the supply chain adopt the blockchain
technology? Ann. Oper. Res. 2020, 309, 837–860. [CrossRef]
11. Chang, Y.; Iakovou, E.; Shi, W. Blockchain in Global Supply Chains and Cross Border Trade: A Critical Synthesis of the
State-of-the-Art, Challenges and Opportunities. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2020, 58, 2082–2099. [CrossRef]
12. Liu, P.; Long, Y.; Song, H.; He, Y. Investment decision and coordination of green agri-food supply chain considering information
service based on blockchain and big data. J. Clean. Prod. 2020, 277, 123646. [CrossRef]
13. Wong, L.; Tan, G.; Lee, V.; Ooi, K.; Sohal, A. Unearthing the Determinants of Blockchain Adoption in Supply Chain Management.
Int. J. Prod. Res. 2020, 58, 2100–2123. [CrossRef]
14. Dubey, R.; Gunasekaran, A.; Bryde, D.; Dwivedi, Y.; Papadopoulos, T. Blockchain Technology for Enhancing Swift-Trust
Collaboration and Resilience within a Humanitarian Supply Chain Setting. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2020, 58, 3381–3398. [CrossRef]
15. Pun, H.; Swaminathan, J.; Hou, P. Blockchain Adoption for Combating Deceptive Counterfeits. Prod. Oper. Manag. 2021, 30,
864–882. [CrossRef]
16. Niu, B.; Dong, J.; Liu, Y. Incentive alignment for blockchain adoption in medicine supply chains. Transp. Res. Part E Logist. Transp.
Rev. 2021, 152, 102276. [CrossRef]
17. Wang, X.; Ma, D.; Hu, J. Recycling Model Selection for Electronic Products Considering Platform Power and Blockchain
Empowerment. Sustainability 2022, 14, 6136. [CrossRef]
18. Xu, M.; Ma, S.; Wang, G. Differential Game Model of Information Sharing among Supply Chain Finance Based on Blockchain
Technology. Sustainability 2022, 14, 7139. [CrossRef]
19. Choi, T. Blockchain-technology-supported platforms for diamond authentication and certification in luxury supply chains. Transp.
Res. Part E Logist. Transp. Rev. 2019, 128, 17–29. [CrossRef]
20. Choi, T.; Luo, S. Data quality challenges for sustainable fashion supply chain operations in emerging markets: Roles of blockchain,
government sponsors and environment taxes. Transp. Res. Part E Logist. Transp. Rev. 2019, 131, 139–152. [CrossRef]
21. Choi, T.; Guo, S.; Liu, N.; Shi, X. Optimal pricing in on-demand-service-platform-operations with hired agents and risk-sensitive
customers in the blockchain era. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2020, 284, 1031–1042. [CrossRef]
22. De Giovanni, P. Blockchain and smart contracts in supply chain management: A game theoretic model. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2020,
228, 107855. [CrossRef]
23. Xu, X.; Choi, T. Supply chain operations with online platforms under the cap-and-trade regulation: Impacts of using blockchain
technology. Transp. Res. Part E Logist. Transp. Rev. 2021, 155, 102491. [CrossRef]
24. Niu, B.; Xu, H.; Dai, Z. Check Only Once? Health Information Exchange between Competing Private Hospitals. Omega 2022, 107,
102556. [CrossRef]
25. Tao, F.; Wang, Y.; Zhu, S. Impact of blockchain technology on the optimal pricing and quality decisions of platform supply chains.
Int. J. Prod. Res. 2022. [CrossRef]
26. Wu, J.; Yu, J. Blockchain’s impact on platform supply chains: Transaction cost and information transparency perspectives. Int. J.
Prod. Res. 2022. [CrossRef]
27. Shankar, R.; Gupta, R.; Pathak, D. Modeling Critical Success Factors of Traceability for Food Logistics System. Transp. Res. Part E
Logist. Transp. Rev. 2018, 119, 205–222. [CrossRef]
28. Haleem, A.; Khan, S.; Khan, M. Traceability Implementation in Food Supply Chain: A Grey-DEMATEL Approach. Inf. Process.
Agric. 2019, 6, 335–348. [CrossRef]
29. Casino, F.; Kanakaris, V.; Dasaklis, T.; Moschuris, S.; Stachtiaris, S.; Pagoni, M.; Rachaniotis, N. Blockchain-Based Food Supply
Chain Traceability: A Case Study in the Dairy Sector. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2020, 59, 5758–5770. [CrossRef]
30. Tan, A.; Gligor, D.; Ngah, A. Applying Blockchain for Halal food traceability. Int. J. Logist. Res. Appl. 2020, 25, 947–964. [CrossRef]
31. Rogerson, M.; Parry, G. Blockchain: Case studies in food supply chain visibility. Supply Chain Manag. 2020, 25, 601–614. [CrossRef]
32. Qian, J.; Dai, B.; Wang, B.; Zha, Y.; Song, Q. Traceability in food processing: Problems, methods, and performance evaluations—A
review. Crit. Rev. Food Sci. Nutr. 2020, 62, 679–692. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
33. Stranieri, S.; Riccardi, F.; Meuwissen, M.; Soregaroli, C. Exploring the impact of blockchain on the performance of agri-food
supply chains. Food Control 2021, 119, 107495. [CrossRef]
34. Liu, Y.; Ma, D.; Hu, J.; Zhang, Z. Sales mode selection of fresh food supply chain based on blockchain technology under different
channel competition. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2021, 162, 107730. [CrossRef]
35. Niu, B.; Shen, Z.; Xie, F. The value of blockchain and agricultural supply chain parties’ participation confronting random bacteria
pollution. J. Clean. Prod. 2021, 319, 128579. [CrossRef]
36. Chinazzi, M.; Davis, J.; Ajelli, M.; Gioannini, C.; Litvinova, M.; Merler, S.; Pastore y Piontti, A.; Mu, K.; Rossi, L.; Sun, K.; et al.
The effect of travel restrictions on the spread of the 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. Science 2020, 368, 395–400.
[CrossRef]
http://dx.doi.org/10.1051/ro/2021089
http://dx.doi.org/10.3389/fpsyg.2022.842646
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35273546
http://www.ujala.gov.in/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10479-020-03729-y
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2019.1651946
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.123646
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1730463
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1722860
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/poms.13348
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2021.102276
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su14106136
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su14127139
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2019.05.011
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2019.09.019
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2020.01.049
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2020.107855
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2021.102491
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.omega.2021.102556
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2022.2050828
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2022.2027037
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2018.03.006
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.inpa.2019.01.003
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1789238
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/13675567.2020.1825653
http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/SCM-08-2019-0300
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/10408398.2020.1825925
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33016094
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.foodcont.2020.107495
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2021.107730
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.128579
http://dx.doi.org/10.1126/science.aba9757
Sustainability 2022, 14, 9497 23 of 23
37. Liao, H.; Wang, J. The impact of epidemic information on the public’s worries and attitude toward epidemic prevention measures
during the COVID-19 outbreak. Curr. Psychol. 2021. [CrossRef]
38. Wu, J.; Wang, K.; He, C.; Huang, X.; Dong, K. Characterizing the patterns of China’s policies against COVID-19: A bibliometric
study. Inf. Process. Manag. 2021, 58, 102562. [CrossRef]
39. Wang, Z.; Huo, J.; Duan, Y. Impact of government subsidies on pricing strategies in reverse supply chains of waste electrical and
electronic equipment. Waste Manag. 2019, 95, 440–449. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
40. Li, Y.; Deng, Q.; Zhou, C.; Feng, L. Environmental governance strategies in a two-echelon supply chain with tax and subsidy
interactions. Ann. Oper. Res. 2020, 290, 439–462. [CrossRef]
41. Zhang, L.; Xue, B.; Li, K. Assessing subsidy policies for green products: Operational and environmental perspectives. Int. Trans.
Oper. Res. 2021, 29, 3081–3106. [CrossRef]
42. Xue, K.; Sun, G.; Wang, Y.; Niu, S. Optimal Pricing and Green Product Design Strategies in a Sustainable Supply Chain Considering
Government Subsidy and Different Channel Power Structures. Sustainability 2021, 13, 12446. [CrossRef]
43. Ma, C.; Yang, H.; Zhang, W.; Huang, S. Low-carbon consumption with government subsidy under asymmetric carbon emission
information. J. Clean. Prod. 2021, 318, 128423. [CrossRef]
44. Xu, J.; Duan, Y. Pricing and greenness investment for green products with government subsidies: When to apply blockchain
technology? Electron. Commer. Res. Appl. 2022, 51, 101108. [CrossRef]
45. Xu, X.; Zhang, M.; Dou, G.; Yu, Y. Coordination of a supply chain with an online platform considering green technology in the
blockchain era. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2021. [CrossRef]
46. Shen, Y.; Willems, S.; Dai, Y. Channel Selection and Contracting in the Presence of a Retail Platform. Prod. Oper. Manag. 2019, 28,
1173–1185. [CrossRef]
47. Xu, X.; He, P.; Xu, H.; Zhang, Q. Supply Chain Coordination with Green Technology Under Cap-and-Trade Regulation. Int. J.
Prod. Econ. 2017, 183, 433–442. [CrossRef]
48. Li, Q.; Xiao, T.; Qiu, Y. Price and Carbon Emission Reduction Decisions and Revenue Sharing Contract Considering Fairness
Concerns. J. Clean. Prod. 2018, 190, 303–314. [CrossRef]
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12144-021-01364-9
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102562
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.wasman.2019.06.006
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31351630
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10479-018-2975-z
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/itor.13077
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su132212446
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2021.128423
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2021.101108
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2021.1894367
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/poms.12977
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2016.08.029
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2018.04.032
	Introduction
	Literature Review
	Application of Blockchain Technology in Supply Chain Management
	Food Traceability
	Governmental Anti-Pandemic and Subsidy Strategies
	Research Gap
	Model Description
	Model Analysis
	Model-1
	Model-2
	Model-3
	Model-4
	Model Comparison
	Analysis of Governmental Anti-Pandemic Strategy
	Analysis of Governmental Subsidy Strategy
	Comparative Analysis of Governmental Anti-Pandemic and Subsidy Strategies
	Implications
	Conclusions
	Appendix A
	References