Metaverse in Education: Vision, Opportunities, and Challenges
2022 IEEE International Conference on Big Data (Big Data)
978-1-6654-8045-1/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 2857
Metaverse in Education: Vision,
Opportunities, and Challenges
Hong Lin1,2, Shicheng Wan3, Wensheng Gan1,2∗, Jiahui Chen3, Han-Chieh Chao4
1Jinan University, Guangzhou 510632, China
2Pazhou Lab, Guangzhou 510330, China
3Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China
4National Dong Hwa University, Hualien 974301, Taiwan, R.O.C.
Email: {lhed9eh0g, scwan1998, wsgan001, csjhchen, hcchao}@gmail.com
Abstract—Traditional education has been updated with the
development of information technology in human history. Within
big data and cyber-physical systems, the Metaverse has gener-
ated strong interest in various applications (e.g., entertainment,
business, and cultural travel) over the last decade. As a novel
social work idea, the Metaverse consists of many kinds of tech-
nologies, e.g., big data, interaction, artificial intelligence, game
design, Internet computing, Internet of Things, and blockchain.
It is foreseeable that the usage of Metaverse will contribute
to educational development. However, the architectures of the
Metaverse in education are not yet mature enough. There are
many questions we should address for the Metaverse in education.
To this end, this paper aims to provide a systematic literature
review of Metaverse in education. This paper is a comprehensive
survey of the Metaverse in education, with a focus on current
technologies, challenges, opportunities, and future directions.
First, we present a brief overview of the Metaverse in education,
as well as the motivation behind its integration. Then, we survey
some important characteristics for the Metaverse in education,
including the personal teaching environment and the personal
learning environment. Next, we envisage what variations of this
combination will bring to education in the future and discuss
their strengths and weaknesses. We also review the state-of-the-
art case studies (including technical companies and educational
institutions) for Metaverse in education. Finally, we point out
several challenges and issues in this promising area.
Index Terms—Metaverse, cyber-physical systems, education,
opportunities, challenges
I. INTRODUCTION
The concept of Metaverse was first occurred in 1992 and
drew attention with its movie Ready Player One [1]. Metaverse
is a virtual world and closely related to the real life [2]. It
aims to build a digitized world that consists of digital media.
The combination between real and virtual worlds represents
that virtuality is capable of acting on reality through daily
activities and economic life. Studies [3], [4], [5] suppose
Metaverse is “a 3D-based virtual world in which daily life
is done by avatars reflecting the actual individuals”. In other
words, he/she will have an easier time finding himself/herself
in the Metaverse than in the actual world. In addition, the
study [6] gives another definition of the “Metaverse” which is
more profound. It is “a world in which virtual and physical
∗Corresponding author.
realities interact and co-evolve, and in which social, economic,
and cultural activities are carried out to generate value”. In
other words, as we described in previous content, the real
world and virtual reality are interactions according to the
Metaverse instead of two divided worlds. More generally,
the Metaverse can also be represented as a world in which
daily life and business activities are coordinated [7], [8], [9].
Some companies and organizations have already been trying
to implement Metaverse in several applications, like employee
training, student education, and entertainment. The Metaverse
is gradually being incorporated into our modern lives. It is
necessary and vital to comprehend the Metaverse, and then
take full advantage of it.
physical 
space
human 
society
virtual 
space
natural science
engineering technology
learning, predict, and 
suggestion
Metavers
e
data Teachers/SharersStudents/Learners
Novel Education
students ↔ teachers
learners ↔ sharers
trainees ↔ trainers
classroom, desk,
face-to-face
tradition
virtual
screen, sensor,
wearable device
Fig. 1: An overview of the Metaverse in education.
In the long history of human education, word of mouth has
been a universal method that mankind has adopted in the wild.
Due to the lack of a reliable information carrier, ancestors had
to pass down their stories by talking to others, like Homer’s
Epics1, Classic of Poetry2 and so on. Simple, meaningful,
inspiring, and easy to remember are the features of these
survival stories. However, information distortion inevitably
arises during spread, and the listener has to give full play
to his or her imagination to understand the story. This case
1https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Homer
2https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classic of Poetry
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 B
ig
 D
at
a 
(B
ig
 D
at
a)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-8
04
5-
1/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
B
ig
D
at
a5
56
60
.2
02
2.
10
02
10
04
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2858
restrains many people’s exploration of knowledge to a great
extent. Later, the birth of paper allowed people to freely record
almost anything. Writing messages on paper is more reliable
and convenient than word of mouth, and the paper can save
information for a long time. More importantly, the writer can
use as many words as possible to clearly describe the scene,
which lowers the information entropy to a certain degree. In
the past decades, the world has been involved in the Internet
age and has developed rapidly. People are no longer satisfied
with learning from texts. The novel technologies (e.g., 4G3,
streaming media4, and Bluetooth5) enrich people’s perceptual
experiences. We can watch clear photographs or smooth videos
on the computer or even on a mobile phone! Through internet
technologies, we can easily learn what is happening on the
other side of the world. The distance between the world
and us is just a network cable. Nowadays, the Metaverse
provides a new era for education, including decentralized
teaching rooms and immersive studying. The word “meta”
means first, beginning, important, and consummation. On the
one hand, it represents a new beginning; on the other hand,
from the perspective of completeness, its connotation already
includes not only the virtual and past worlds but also the real
and future worlds. At the technical level, it includes many
emerging technologies such as big data [7], virtual reality (VR)
[10], augmented reality (AR) [11], mixed reality (MR) [12],
blockchain [13], [14], digital twin [15], artificial intelligence
(AI) [16], and so on. In short, it is a large integration of
human, virtual, and reality across time and space (e.g., cyber-
physical space). As shown in Fig. 1, the Metaverse education
is born at the core of traditional educational activities (e.g.,
imparting knowledge and learning) and also changes many
original things, such as the relationship between teachers and
students, the limitation of time and physical space, and so on.
Research gap: Until now, many researchers conducted
literature review [17], [18], [19], [20] that related to Metaverse
in general. Massive basic technologies related to Metaverse
have been widely discussed and studied, such as big data
[21], [22], [23], IoT [24], [25], virtual reality [26], augmented
reality [27], mixed reality [28], digit twin [29], 3D virtual
worlds [30], blockchain [31], [32], [33], 6th-generation mobile
communication technology [34], security and privacy [9], [35],
etc. Though the Metaverse is a buzzword, most people are still
unfamiliar with it. Is the Metaverse for education a blessing
or a curse? What new functions or concepts are born from the
combination of Metaverse and education? Will it cause new
conflicts and exacerbate the situation? These questions have
remained unanswered.
Contributions: To fill this gap, this paper aims to conduct
a systematic literature review of the Metaverse in education.
The contributions of this article are as follows.
• We introduce a technological framework for the Meta-
verse in education (called Metaverse education or educa-
3https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/4G
4https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Streaming media
5https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bluetooth
tion Metaverse), which reflects the interlinkages between
the Metaverse and smart education.
• We elaborate on the description of the characteristics
of traditional education, Metaverse, and their combina-
tion. We introduce how education, with the help of the
Metaverse, will bring changes in the new era. We also
discuss how the new education model will contribute to
the development of the Metaverse.
• We provide a detailed survey of the state-of-the-art indus-
try case studies (including companies and universities) for
smart education and skill training.
• We highlight some key challenges and future directions
based on our in-depth review, as well as some recom-
mendations for the Metaverse in future education.
Roadmap: In Section II, we briefly introduce key character-
istics of the Metaverse, traditional education, and their com-
binations. Then, we discuss how the Metaverse will change
education in Section III, and put together the state-of-the-
art industry case applications in Section IV. Furthermore, in
Section V, we provide a comprehensive review of challenges
and issues for the evaluation of the Metaverse in education.
We conclude this paper with discussions and potential future
research in Section VI.
II. CHARACTERISTICS OF METAVERSE IN EDUCATION
This section introduces some important characteristics of
Metaverse, traditional education, and their combination (vir-
tual educational environment), as depicted in Fig. 2.
Metaverse EducationEducation Metaverse 
Environment
personal 
teaching 
environment
personal 
learning 
environment
Teachers/SharersStudents/Learners
Decentration
High Human-
Computer Interaction
low friction immersive
Truth and 
Fiction
who am I?relationship
anywhere, 
anytime
Generalized
Narrow sense
organized education 
activities (e.g., school)
social practice activities for 
physical and mental development 
(e.g., lifelong learning)
Fig. 2: The characteristics of Metaverse and education.
A. Characteristics of Metaverse
As a buzzword, “Metaverse” is a completely new domain
for all people. It is a blueprint for enhancing comprehensive
human development. The rapid development of Internet com-
munication techniques and hardware platforms, decentraliza-
tion, the combination of virtuality and reality, and high human-
computer interaction are the conspicuous characteristics of the
Metaverse. This is why researchers suppose that the Metaverse
in education is possible.
• Decentralization originates in the blockchain technology
[33]. It subverts the traditional social operation mech-
anism, which means that the Metaverse is no longer
created by a specific group of people but by all users’
participation and equal co-creation.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2859
• The Internet of Things (IoT [24]) means that every-
thing is connected to the Internet. It implements the
combination of virtuality and reality, which makes users
switch between the virtual and real worlds anytime and
anywhere. In a Metaverse world, the identity of a user
(who am I?) and social relations in two worlds (what is
my relationship with them?) will bring a new way of life.
• Human-computer interaction [26], [27] is the basic func-
tion of the Metaverse. Its performance level directly de-
termines the boundary of human sense, and the boundary
determines the value of Metaverse to humans.
• Digital reality [15], [28] will provide an immersive expe-
rience for users. It consists of augmented reality, virtual
reality, mixed reality, and 360◦ video. These technologies
help humans get rid of time and space limitations. The
immersive technique can greatly deepen understanding
and enhance the study experience for learners.
• The great economic value of Metaverse in education
is far greater than that of traditional education. In the
Metaverse, everyone is capable of creating various digital
products. Besides, transactions among people will be
more flexible and convenient (e.g., virtual to virtual and
virtual to realistic).
B. Characteristics of Traditional Education
Notice that educational activities have already been changed
by the scientific and technological revolution. In a narrow
sense, education can be defined as educators (e.g., teachers)
conducting specific teaching activities in specific locations
(e.g., schools). In a generalized sense, education is the lifelong
learning activity of each person (e.g., vocational education,
skills training, and enhancing his/her thoughts). During the
past decade, with the popularization of the Internet, traditional
education has been integrated into Web 2.0. For example, Mas-
sive Open Online Courses (MOOCs6) can realize the online
sharing of teaching resources. However, it does not change
the core methods because it still relies on content delivery,
classrooms, and textbooks [36]. We suppose it meets many
unsolved limitations nowadays, including the lack of engaging
teaching content, the low wiliness of student participation, the
limited availability of time and space, and the difficulty of
concretizing abstract knowledge.
C. Characteristics of Virtual Education
In the virtual educational environment, according to modern
research [37], [38], the educational process is organized, and
then it forms a new networked communication space. The edu-
cational interaction between students and teachers is supported
by a whole management system. The study [39] supposes that
the virtual educational environment can be roughly divided
into two types: the personal teaching environment (PTE) and
the personal learning environment (PLE). The core of a PTE is
the teachers (or knowledge sharers). With the help of the nec-
essary network services and tools, they share some discipline-
specific knowledge on platforms (e.g., blogs, forums, and
6https://www.mooc.org/
online communities). Each visitor can freely contribute their
comments and download training materials (if the teacher has
uploaded them) using cloud tools. PLE has occurred and is
continuing to grow. Many online activities or functions (e.g.,
the creation of virtual space, the collection of information,
and the facilitation of communication) are based on precision
hardware. It is easy to organize such a virtual educational
space on the Internet through cloud technologies [40] and other
web services. Therefore, a PLE should be built and maintained
by the learner himself/herself, including all components of
educational programs like terminals, communication, and so
on. In this type of environment, continuous learning (or called
lifelong learning) is feasible for everyone [41], [42].
The emergence of new information and communication
technologies causes the expansion of educational spaces to
shift from offline to online, and this novel shift also updates
educational methods and didactic systems. The changes can
be roughly divided into two parts. The first is the novel
interaction between teachers and students. With the help of
virtual educational environments and communications tools,
teachers can organize educational activities and collect ed-
ucational information more conveniently and precisely than
before. Big data technologies can strengthen the understanding
and memorization of students, and the Metaverse educational
system can feed back the requirements of students to teachers
in time. More importantly, compared to the traditional teaching
model, the virtual environment will ease the seriousness of
teachers, and thus students will proactively show interest in
interacting with teachers. The second is the new teaching
actions. In the virtual educational environment, there are
massive templates and instruments for educational information
transfer offered to teachers. They can get a detailed analysis of
the psychological and educational situations of each student.
This will make it easier for teachers to educate students. Based
on tools from the virtual educational environment, the method
of using a virtual educational environment by a student in
learning is undertaken to solve cognitive and educational tasks.
III. HOW THE METAVERSE CHANGES EDUCATION?
The education system has been developed over centuries and
continually adapted to the available techniques. We conduct
a simple comparison of three educational models (Table I).
A new revolution in educational models is coming, and we
(not only scholars and educators) should embrace and prepare
for it. Nowadays, Generation Z is used to accepting online
education. In their long lives, the digital world is as important
as the real one. Computers, smartphones, and the Internet have
surrounded them since they were born. Generation Z are digital
natives, and their education must be a challenge (including
efficiency and engagement).
Metaverse is an enormous framework that owns many dig-
ital features of the future. There are numerous benefits in the
Metaverse world, like interaction, authenticity, and portability.
As a result, the new educational system has to be readdressed
to retain its accessibility and prolong its existence. As shown in
Figs. 3 and 4, we list some usage of implementing Metaverse
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2860
TABLE I: Comparison of three types of education
Traditional Education Online Education Metaverse Education
Location school school, home school, home
Equipment book, pen, blackboard computer, mobile phone, tablet brain-computer interface, wearable devices
Teaching form one-to-many one-to-many, one-to-one one-to-many, one-to-one
Educator teacher knowledge sharer knowledge sharer
Educated student learner learner
Teaching content social and natural science interest, social and natural science customization
Teaching Purpose personal training personal training, enrich lives all-round education
Technology Support none Web 2.0 Web 3.0
Personalized ThinkExplorationStudyConnect Play
Connect remotely, 
smoothly, fast,
communicate and interact 
with others from anytime 
and anywhere
Lower time, risk and cost,
immerse in education, 
training, 
fully analytics, and 
research
The principle of the education 
is people-oriented and  
individualized treatment of 
the learners 
Bring users on a journey 
of exploration across time 
and geography in anytime 
and anywhere
Build education paradigm, 
devise best practices, 
evaluate solutions to 
determine a long-term vision
Reduces learning curve of 
learners,
deepens their scope of 
understanding
See-What-I-See
Novel Relationships
Equipment Installation
Stable and Smooth
Anytime and Anywhere
Non-Discrimination
Qualification
Entertaining
Immersive Learning
Safety and Compliance
Humanization
Maintenance
Freely Design
Big Data Analytics
Sapiential Suggestions
Visit/Review Accidents
Enhance Physical Products
Immersive Experience 
Travel History Events Safety 
and Low Cost
Games
Live Events
Story Telling
Location Based
Digital Reality Experiences
Ecosystems
Novel Relationships
Business Conflicts
Harmonized standards
Strategy and Vision
Fig. 3: The change that Metaverse brings to education.
Teacher Student
Metaverse
Visualization
Reducing learning costs and risks
Not limited by time and space
Preventing academic misconduct
Personalization
Immersive interactive experience
Promoting communication
Fig. 4: Seven ways that the Metaverse changes education.
in education industry and discuss seven ways the Metaverse
can positively impact.
• Immersive interactive experience: Metaverse education
breaks the limitations of web-based teaching in Web 2.0.
Studies [43], [44] show that learners will be more enjoy-
able in a teaching class and thus learn more effectively in
a realistic experience (including observation and practice)
environment.
• Visualization: According to digital technologies, the
Metaverse can help learners see things that are hardly
to contact by their eyes in the real world before, such as
molecules or biological cells [45] in a microscopic view.
Besides, it can also simulate ideal conditions in physics,
making abstract theories concrete, e.g., Einstein’s theory
of relativity [46].
• Low learning costs and risks: In general, some classes,
like Chemistry and Physics, need to conduct experiments.
However, all these experiments can be simulated through
digitization, which is a part of Metaverse education. This
can save on resource consumption. Similarly, if learners
train during high-risk experiments (e.g., with flammable
and explosive chemical materials or air crash simulation
exercises), the learner’s operational risk will be low.
• Unrestricted time and space: On the one hand, the usage
of Metaverse education can be free from the limitation
of time. For example, historical events can be recreated
and experienced, eliminating the need for students to
imagine or watch from books or videos. On the other
hand, it breaks geographical restrictions. For instance,
students who live in temperate regions want to investigate
the environment of tropical regions on the equator. If
digital simulations of the tropics have been implemented,
students can use the Metaverse to achieve this purpose.
• Preventing academic misconduct: Metaverse hunts
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2861
down academic misconduct through blockchain technol-
ogy [47]. For example, blockchain requires that every
generation, release, and flow of information be recorded
in a time ledger according to the timestamp. This function
can be applied to copyright protection, so that the publi-
cation, distribution, and dissemination of academic works
can be easily traced and supervised [33]. In addition,
smart contracts only work when the obligations of the
contracted parties are satisfied. When an author submits a
manuscript in this system, a new block can be generated,
and the transaction information is distributed and stored
in the same level block. This case ensures the unique-
ness of the author’s submission behavior and eliminates
academic misconduct (e.g., multiple submissions and
multiple releases) to a certain degree.
• Personalization: Through digital twin generators or sim-
ulators, just like the Metahkust7 students, learners can
design personal avatars according to their preferences,
which will make them more confident and engaged in
the learning process. Furthermore, after users agree to
authorize their personal data, the education system can
formulate teaching content and plan courses within the
limits of the law.
• Promoting communication: Due to physical distance,
the current online classroom lacks effective interaction
and communication [48]. Learners cannot avoid distrac-
tion, and teachers cannot obtain the teaching effect ac-
cording to the learners’ reactions (e.g., facial expressions
and body movements) in time. Metaverse allows teachers
to create virtual rooms where they can hold internal
meetings. At the same time, learners can create study
rooms in which they can work collaboratively, study, and
socialize freely. According to their avatars, everyone is
able to see each other, easily share files, or play games.
These features enhance the relationships between learners
and teachers (including the friendships of classmates).
Therefore, we have a bold vision for the future of Meta-
verse in education. As we discussed above, the peak of the
Metaverse must be decentralized, but the current network
ecosystem (e.g., Web 2.08) cannot satisfy the requirements
of the Metaverse. Fortunately, Web 3.09 can be the basic
part of Metaverse, which helps machines interpret information
like humans. Against this background, we suppose the novel
education model will bring some advantages:
• Low cost: The Internet of Everything makes it easier
to search for information and gather knowledge, which
reduces the cost of education for everyone.
• AI search: The AI search mechanism only displays
results that users consider urgent. The search system will
automatically mark all different messages and remind
users of the relative topics and resources.
7https://nftevening.com/metahkust-hong-kong-university-metaverse-campus/
8https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web 2.0
9https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic Web
• Teaching revolution: With the help of tools for analyzing
big data and educational behaviors, teachers can assign
students complex, personalized homework that can help
them become more independent.
• Learning: Students do not need to spend much time col-
lecting and organizing key learning points. Furthermore,
they can study or review anytime and anywhere.
• Personal learning network: The personal learning agent
will automatically collect information that is related to the
user’s learning goal and regularly send them a report.
• Personal education management system: The manage-
ment system will make study plans for each user, and the
user can change the plan at any time and in any place,
based on the current situation.
Here, we point out that all the subversive changes that the
Metaverse brings to education will also eventually promote the
development of the Metaverse itself. On the one hand, many
students will benefit from Metaverse-based education, and they
will eventually help to promote the Metaverse. On the other
hand, the youth who receive education through Metaverse will
be more familiar with all aspects of Metaverse. This means that
they are more likely to develop the Metaverse.
IV. INDUSTRY CASE STUDY OF METAVERSE EDUCATION
We are looking forward to the development of the Metaverse
in education. The Metaverse has already shown great poten-
tial, and there are already some groups focusing on landing
Metaverse-based educational projects.
A. Metaverse Education at Tech Companies
Metaverse education has recently caught the attention of
many technology companies. As a significant representative
of the Metaverse field, Roblox has unique advantages in
Metaverse education. On the one hand, its multiplayer game
system provides learners with social interaction experiences.
On the other hand, it allows users to create freely, which
greatly enriches the content of education scenarios. In Novem-
ber 2021, Roblox announced that it plans to invest more
than 10 million dollars in noncommercial organizations and
develop three educational games. However, gaming is not
the only industry that can benefit from the Metaverse. Strivr
is a company that is dedicated to providing VR training to
businesses. Its products offer virtual-reality-based immersive
learning that engages employees in “hands-on” learning op-
portunities. The results show the learning retention rate of
employees increases. More importantly, managers are able
to collect unique learning and assessment data to measure
training effectiveness and evaluate employee competencies,
according to Strivr. In addition, JigSpace is an application that
allows users to create 3D models and display their products on
an electronic screen. Based on augmented reality technology, it
is capable of integrating digital information with the user’s real
environment in real time. Learners can explore areas of interest
in a whole new way through 3D instructional modeling. Here
we list some representative and productive cases in Table II.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2862
TABLE II: Several representative and productive cases
Company Website Features Applications
• Learning by experience games
• Enterprise VR training
• Various interactive 3D models for learning
• Virtual school experience
• VR K12 classroom
• VR university laboratory
• Simulate the regulation of mechanics of real world
• Active community
• Game creation
• 360° VR perspective
• Interactive VR
• Universal AR
• 3D presentation
• Mobile application
• Video chat platform
• Collaborative work
• Permanent storage
• Multi-terminal compatibility
• 3D physics engine
• No-code authoring
https://roblox.com/
https://www.strivr.com/
https://www.jig.space/
https://www.gather.town/
https://vr.baidu.com/product/xirang
https://www.reworlder.com/
TABLE III: Several university’s experiences about Metaverse
University Platform / Tool Application
Stanford University (America)
Self development:
The Virtual Human course1
Allow all students to break through the space constraints, the
classroom can be in a museum, laboratory, under the sea, etc.
Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University (America)
Self development:
Extended Reality (XR) Lab2
Provide hands-on experiences and augmented learning
experiences to serve as supplemental content.
Case Western Reserve University (America) Microsoft: Hololens
Provide 3D perspective views of parts of the human body.
Enable view perception capabilities.
Hong Kong University of Science
and Technology (China)
Self development:
MetaHKUST
Provide convenience in notification and administration.
Create your own content freely, such as avatars, NFT.
University of Cincinnati (America)
Self development:
UCSIM3
Build a Metaverse learning platform that offers courses in
different fields, most notably health care and bioengineering.
Soonchunhyang University (South Korea) SK telecom: Jump VR Hold the world’s first virtual entrance ceremony this year.
1 https://stanfordvr.com
2 https://daytonabeach.erau.edu/about/labs/extended-reality
3 https://ucsim.uc.edu/
B. Metaverse Education at University
With the rise of the Metaverse topic, the merits of applying
Metaverse to education are increasingly recognized. To test
these assumptions, some colleges have begun to experiment
with Metaverse education. They all aim at enhancing academic
memory and improving educational efficiency through immer-
sive experiences. For example, at Stanford University, profes-
sor Jeremy Bailenson was inspired by the novel “Neuromance”
and thus first set up a course entirely set in virtual reality,
called “Virtual Human”. The “Virtual Human” course allows
all students to break through the space constraints. According
to VR headsets, their “classroom” can appear anywhere in the
world. Teaching activities are totally done in virtual reality.
The “classroom” can be in a museum, laboratory, under
the sea, or even in a “dangerous” crater. Within immersive
experiences, students can experience something that has only
existed in their imaginations before. In addition, aviation
accidents and safety investigations are one of the main courses
at Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. The headmaster has
been trying to build a virtual collision laboratory and make
the college a new Metaverse University. In the virtual aircraft
control room, students can witness flight accidents, hear the
dialogue between pilots and air traffic control centers, and
conduct activities such as evaluating emergency response mea-
sures, investigating accident scenes, and collecting data. They
can enter the accident scene virtually and play as investigators.
They can also take pictures, submit their survey records to
the professor, and make timely corrections. Besides, Case
Western Reserve University School of Medicine is actively
applying Metaverse technology to teaching practice. Anatomy
students take courses using “Hololens”, a wearable device
based on mixed reality developed by Microsoft Corporation.
This pioneering holographic visualization technology provides
medical students with 3D perspective views of various parts
of the human body and enables view perception capabilities
that are difficult to support with other methods. In “Hololens”,
students can freely pan and zoom the hologram to interact
with anatomy more naturally and thus improve the efficiency
of their anatomy learning. Some works of the university’s
experience are listed in Table III.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2863
After reviewing related products and practices, we believe
that the actual experience order of Metaverse education should
be as follows:
• Connection: This step emphasizes immersive experi-
ences by using simulation exchange (e.g., XR) and digital
twin technology.
• Interaction: This step emphasizes high simulation based
on a 3D engine, real-time rendering, and digital twins.
• Creation: This step is based on the stable operation of
the platform, which uses a large amount of data to create
content, including objects and spaces.
• Identification: Identify different users and entities in the
virtual world, mainly based on Web 3.0 and blockchain.
• Execution: Large-scale operations require energy supply,
computing power support, and high concurrent transmis-
sion capability.
V. CHALLENGES AND ISSUES
As depicted in Fig. 5, we will introduce some challenges
and issues in this section. Indeed, there is a massive amount
of related content to discuss. Thus, we list five parts (privacy
risks, inclusiveness, technology implementation, addiction,
and governance challenges) that are urgent to be solved.
governance 
challenges
privacy 
risks
inclusiveness
technology 
implement
addiction
1. network and computing,
2. artificial intelligence, 
3. immersive interactive technology,
4. ……
1. DDos attack,
2. information leakage,
3. authentication credentials,
4. …… 
1. different races,
2. different skin colors, 
3. different regions,
4. ……
1. standard-setting,
2. management costs,
3. balancing of interests,
4. …… 
1. content (e.g., game),
2. usage time,
3. …… 
Fig. 5: Some challenges and issues of Metaverse in education.
A. Technical Implementation
1) Immersive interactive technology: The realization of the
Metaverse is inseparable from immersive interactive technolo-
gies, mainly including virtual reality (VR), augmented reality
(AR), and mixed reality (AR). In particular, extended reality
(XR) is the collective name of the three technologies. We
discuss them in detail since they are also educational tools.
• Virtual reality: At present, VR is a relatively mature
technology in Metaverse education. Previous studies [10],
[49] have proven that VR has great potential for pos-
itive educational results by offering a more engaging
environment. However, we lack more in-depth research
on this new teaching method. The basic hardware for
implementing VR is the head-mounted display (HMD)
[50], which provides total immersion through a 3D virtual
environment to mimic reality. One of the most significant
issues with HMD is the lack of visual realism and
dynamic interactive realism. It can be concluded that ex-
isting technologies that generate VR graphics and display
functions are quite limited. We believe this because our
human brain is sensitive to change. Even minor details
can easily derail the immersive experience. Thus, in a VR
world, how to maximize the appearance of reality is an
urgent but unsolved challenge.
• Augmented reality: Most AR devices are more conve-
nient to wear than VR devices. However, it is difficult to
use the same teaching content on different AR devices
because many manufacturers do not yet have a uniform
standard [51]. Non-portability of content is one of the
biggest challenges of AR at present. Besides, the study
[52] showed that separation of the real and virtual worlds
decreases the user’s immersion in the educational envi-
ronment. We need to continually optimize the effective
sensing environment of AR and realize the effective
fusion technology of virtual information, which depends
on the combination of local computing power and cloud
computing power, as well as the fusion usage of large
broadband and low-latency communication.
• Mixed reality: MR requires the coexistence of real and
virtual objects, which makes users able to freely interact
in real time [53]. While MR provides users with a greater
sense of immersion than VR or AR, it also imposes
many strict technical requirements on its implementation.
On the one hand, displaying real objects on a device
necessitates high resolution and contrast. On the other
hand, the system must accurately track the position of
the physical objects because the device needs to give
the illusion that the virtual object is in a fixed physical
location or attached to a physical item [54].
2) Artificial intelligence: AI [16] is an essential technology
to make Metaverse education more effective, such as virtual
teaching assistants, language processing for learners from
different regions, and learning outcome assessment. For educa-
tional AI systems, how to generate virtual teaching assistants
suitable for the learners themselves, how to achieve barrier-
free communication between people in different languages,
and how to reasonably evaluate learners’ learning outcomes
are three major problems that should be addressed. In addition,
the ethical governance of AI decision-making in the Metaverse
and preventing the abuse of AI (e.g., utilizing AI code to
pass course exams or stealing assignment answers from other
learners) in the Metaverse are both non-negligible problems.
3) Digital twin: In the Metaverse, a digital twin [15] is
mainly used to digitize real-world objects into the virtual world
in real time. In Metaverse education, some experiments require
high precision that have strict requirements on the accuracy
and real-time performance of digital twins. This means that
digital twins should have the ability to identify and fix errors
[19]. Another major challenge of digital twins is data security
and privacy when using real-time data to develop digital twin
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2864
models. See subsection V-B for details.
4) Blockchain: When more and more students accept ed-
ucation in the Metaverse, the current computing speed of
blockchain (only three to seven transactions per second [13])
may not be able to meet the needs of big data process-
ing. Scalability, which refers to the processing capability
of the blockchain network, directly determines whether the
blockchain can be combined with Metaverse education. How-
ever, when scalability is improved, the number of blockchain
nodes participating in the operation will increase, and the
probability of a fork in the blockchain will also increase.
It means that the decentralization and security of blockchain
will be affected, so how to make compromises between these
three properties (e.g., the impossible triangle of blockchain)
is the dilemma of blockchain [55]. Because of the increased
blockchain size, mining costs will rise [56]. Moreover, the sub-
ject of the Metaverse is always human beings, who inevitably
make mistakes, especially those who are beginning learners.
While blockchain’s immutability ensures that data cannot be
maliciously tampered with, it also has the limitation of being
untraceable. Updating the status by posting new information
is not the best strategy, as it takes up extra space and may
reveal information [57].
5) Network and computing: The high computational re-
quirements of the Metaverse are also a technical challenge.
If education is introduced into the meta-universe, then the
simulation and rendering of teaching scenes, the interaction
between the teacher and the learner, and human-computer
interaction are huge computational quantities, which pose big
challenges to the throughput of the network and the computing
power of cloud computing.
B. Privacy and Security
Obviously, people will spend more time on the Internet
than before, especially with the arrival of the Metaverse. The
Metaverse companies will inevitably collect massive amounts
of personal privacy information from users to obtain a deep
understanding of the users thinking and behavior patterns [58].
There is no doubt that the collected data will be unprecedented.
This causes these companies to have to meet recognition
for the protection of personal data and ensure programs are
always in place to meet any other requirements (e.g., data
regulatory risks). We suppose the weaknesses of the Metaverse
education system are focused on the entire life cycle of user
data collection, storage, and management, and they should
be addressed in the future. We believe that the issue of
information security is undeniable. Hence, education in Meta-
verse should implement the basic properties of information
security, including Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability
(CIA) [59]. Here are some scenarios we envision in relation
to these three properties in Metaverse education:
• Confidentiality: In order to achieve better educational
effects, Metaverse education needs to collect identity
information or personal emotion tracking [26], the sensi-
tive personal information should be protected in multiple
ways. It should be emphasized that the collection of
information is not mandatory. If users choose to keep
their information at the expense of a better experience,
this should be considered reasonable and permissible.
• Integrity: All information, especially about digital twins,
on the educational system cannot be maliciously tam-
pered with, and thus the system should strictly review
the uploaded files to avoid penetration (e.g., Trojan horse
programs, computer viruses). Otherwise, changing the
information may cause damage to the digital twin [60]. In
this regard, combining the Metaverse with a blockchain
is a direction worth exploring.
• Availability: Users are able to enjoy services from the
educational system of the Metaverse at any time and
any place. Some systems of the Metaverse education can
stand up to cyberattacks like DoS and DDoS [61], [62].
C. Inclusiveness
The original goal of the Metaverse and education is to
encourage more people to engage in them. As a result, it
is necessary to create an inclusive virtual environment that
takes into account as many different participant requirements
as possible. It is challenging but filled with love. For example,
affordability is inevitably an issue for poor groups, but they
are urgent about accepting education to get a life-changing
opportunity. Respecting the needs of special learners, such
as the disabled or religious, is often more important than
providing a high-quality education [63].
D. Addiction
As the saying goes, there are two sides to a coin. On the
one hand, the higher the quality of immersive interaction, the
easier it is for users to indulge in it, eventually leading to
“cyber-syndrome”, which means that the physical, social, and
mental disorders that affect human beings due to excessive
interaction with cyberspace [64]. On the other hand, the
XR experience provides learners with numerous visual and
auditory stimuli that may increase their cognitive workload
[43], [65]. However, Metaverse education inevitably relies
on immersive game technologies (at least now it looks like
this). Therefore, how to develop a game that allows learners
to achieve learning effects while preventing learners from
becoming addicted to them is an important issue for Metaverse
education. All in all, Metaverse education should be seen as
a tool, not a silver bullet [66], [67]. Some teaching content
that does not need to use Metaverse simulation will not only
achieve better teaching results when taught in the real world,
but also avoid the addiction.
E. Governance Challenges
Due to the fact that the moral level of learners varies, it
should pay more attention to community governance than
to other areas of the Metaverse. Thus, promulgating and
improving community standards of conduct to prevent moral
problems (e.g., using slang, insulting, bullying, and shaming
each other) is necessary [68]. In addition, since the Metaverse
world is larger than Web 2.0, the cost of supervision is also
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2865
a key problem to be solved. We can learn from the current
poor regulation of social media that big tech companies will
always put profits before rights or ethics [69]. Therefore,
companies that provide Metaverse education platforms can
only be operators and should not be absolute regulators.
Whether there is a violation or not should be determined by the
vast majority of involved users. It should balance the interests
of the company and users.
VI. CONCLUSION
Though we try our best to comprehensively discuss the
Metaverse revolution in education, there may still be some
technologies or ideas we do not introduce in this paper. We
hope that this article will help researchers and practitioners
think about potential research directions to pursue while
exploring the Metaverse in education. This paper provided
an overview of how education meets the Metaverse. Massive
research and cases show that combining with Metaverse is
a feasible method to achieve relative equality in educational
opportunities. Emerging technologies break down many barri-
ers (e.g., space, time, and cost) and thus solve issues that are
difficult to address in real life. Metaverse provides outstanding
visualization, which cannot be obtained in a traditional class-
room. With the rapid evolution of technology, more research
efforts are needed to enrich the novel education model with
various technologies such as immersive interactive technology
(e.g., VR, AR, and MR), network computing, AI, digital
twins, and blockchain. This is a new educational environment,
and thus we highlighted new educational assessment criteria,
governance mechanisms, and study-level testing methods. In
addition, it is worth noting that this article also draws attention
to the fact that new moral problems need further study. How
has the relationship between parents and educational insti-
tutions changed? How to safely protect private information?
These were briefly discussed.
Standing at the moment when the Metaverse is developing,
we can see that the Metaverse and education are mutually ac-
complished things. Especially in the early stages of the current
Metaverse’s development, it needs more talents. Education can
continuously develop, cultivate, and transport talents for the
Metaverse. Thus, in our opinion, the Metaverse and education
are closely linked to each other. In the future, how will the
application of the Metaverse in the field of education develop,
and what potential changes will the field of education need
from the Metaverse? With the passage of time, we can look
forward to the future of education in the Metaverse era.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This research was supported in part by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China (Nos. 62002136 and 62272196),
Natural Science Foundation of Guangdong Province (No.
2022A1515011861), Guangzhou Basic and Applied Basic
Research Foundation (No. 202102020277), and the Young
Scholar Program of Pazhou Lab (No. PZL2021KF0023). Dr.
Wensheng Gan is the corresponding author of this paper.
REFERENCES
[1] E. Cline, Ready player one. Ballantine Books, 2011.
[2] S. Mystakidis, “Metaverse,” Encyclopedia, vol. 2, no. 1, pp. 486–497,
2022.
[3] B. Kye, N. Han, E. Kim, Y. Park, and S. Jo, “Educational applications
of metaverse: possibilities and limitations,” Journal of Educational
Evaluation for Health Professions, vol. 18, pp. 1–32, 2021.
[4] B. Falchuk, S. Loeb, and R. Neff, “The social metaverse: Battle for
privacy,” IEEE Technology and Society Magazine, vol. 37, no. 2, pp.
52–61, 2018.
[5] J. Huggett, “Virtually real or really virtual: Towards a heritage meta-
verse,” Studies in Digital Heritage, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 1–15, 2020.
[6] L. H. Lee, T. Braud, P. Zhou, L. Wang, D. Xu, Z. Lin, A. Kumar,
C. Bermejo, and P. Hui, “All one needs to know about metaverse: A
complete survey on technological singularity, virtual ecosystem, and
research agenda,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.05352, pp. 1–66, 2021.
[7] J. Sun, W. Gan, Z. Chen, J. Li, and P. S. Yu, “Big data meets metaverse:
A survey,” arXiv preprint, arXiv:2210.16282, 2022.
[8] J. Sun, W. Gan, H.-C. Chao, and P. S. Yu, “Metaverse: Survey, appli-
cations, security, and opportunities,” arXiv preprint, arXiv:2210.07990,
2022.
[9] Z. Chen, J. Wu, W. Gan, and Z. Qi, “Metaverse security and privacy:
An overview,” in IEEE International Conference on Big Data. IEEE,
2022, pp. 1–10.
[10] M. Hu, X. Luo, J. Chen, Y. C. Lee, Y. Zhou, and D. Wu, “Virtual reality:
A survey of enabling technologies and its applications in IoT,” Journal
of Network and Computer Applications, vol. 178, pp. 102 970–102 988,
2021.
[11] K. MacCallum and D. Parsons, “Teacher perspectives on mobile aug-
mented reality: The potential of metaverse for learning,” in The World
Conference on Mobile and Contextual Learning, 2019, pp. 21–28.
[12] K. J. Nevelsteen, “Virtual world, defined from a technological perspec-
tive and applied to video games, mixed reality, and the metaverse,”
Computer Animation and Virtual Worlds, vol. 29, no. 1, pp. e1752–
e1774, 2018.
[13] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. N. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “Blockchain
challenges and opportunities: A survey,” International Journal of Web
and Grid Services, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 352–375, 2018.
[14] J. Chen, W. Gan, M. Hu, and C.-M. Chen, “On the construction of a
post-quantum blockchain for smart city,” Journal of information security
and applications, vol. 58, p. 102780, 2021.
[15] D. Jones, C. Snider, A. Nassehi, J. Yon, and B. Hicks, “Characterising
the digital twin: A systematic literature review,” CIRP Journal of
Manufacturing Science and Technology, vol. 29, pp. 36–52, 2020.
[16] G. H. Merabet, M. Essaaidi, M. B. Haddou, B. Qolomany, J. Qadir,
M. Anan, A. Al-Fuqaha, M. R. Abid, and D. Benhaddou, “Intelligent
building control systems for thermal comfort and energy-efficiency: A
systematic review of artificial intelligence-assisted techniques,” Renew-
able and Sustainable Energy Reviews, vol. 144, pp. 110 969–111 007,
2021.
[17] H. Ning, H. Wang, Y. Lin, W. Wang, S. Dhelim, F. Farha, J. Ding, and
M. Daneshmand, “A survey on metaverse: the state-of-the-art, technolo-
gies, applications, and challenges,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2111.09673, pp.
1–34, 2021.
[18] Y. Wang, Z. Su, N. Zhang, D. Liu, R. Xing, T. H. Luan, and X. Shen,
“A survey on metaverse: Fundamentals, security, and privacy,” IEEE
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, pp. 1–32, 2022.
[19] T. R. Gadekallu, T. Huynh The, W. Wang, G. Yenduri, P. Ranaweera,
Q. V. Pham, D. B. da Costa, and M. Liyanage, “Blockchain for the
metaverse: A review,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.09738, pp. 1–17, 2022.
[20] Q. Yang, Y. Zhao, H. Huang, Z. Xiong, J. Kang, and Z. Zheng, “Fusing
blockchain and ai with metaverse: A survey,” IEEE Open Journal of the
Computer Society, pp. 122–136, 2022.
[21] W. Gan, J. C. W. Lin, H. C. Chao, and J. Zhan, “Data mining in
distributed environment: a survey,” Wiley Interdisciplinary Reviews:
Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, vol. 7, no. 6, p. e1216, 2017.
[22] W. Gan, J. C. W. Lin, P. Fournier-Viger, H. C. Chao, and P. S. Yu,
“A survey of parallel sequential pattern mining,” ACM Transactions on
Knowledge Discovery from Data, vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 1–34, 2019.
[23] W. Gan, J. C. W. Lin, P. Fournier-Viger, H. C. Chao, V. S. Tseng,
and P. S. Yu, “A survey of utility-oriented pattern mining,” IEEE
Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, vol. 33, no. 4, pp.
1306–1327, 2021.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2866
[24] M. A. I. Mozumder, M. M. Sheeraz, A. Athar, S. Aich, and H.-C. Kim,
“Overview: Technology roadmap of the future trend of metaverse based
on IoT, blockchain, AI technique, and medical domain metaverse activ-
ity,” in The 24th International Conference on Advanced Communication
Technology. IEEE, 2022, pp. 256–261.
[25] Y. Hajjaji, W. Boulila, I. R. Farah, I. Romdhani, and A. Hussain, “Big
data and IoT-based applications in smart environments: A systematic
review,” Computer Science Review, vol. 39, pp. 100 318–100 334, 2021.
[26] M. R. Miller, F. Herrera, H. Jun, J. A. Landay, and J. N. Bailenson,
“Personal identifiability of user tracking data during observation of 360-
degree vr video,” Scientific Reports, vol. 10, no. 1, pp. 1–10, 2020.
[27] T. Zhan, K. Yin, J. Xiong, Z. He, and S. T. Wu, “Augmented reality and
virtual reality displays: perspectives and challenges,” iScience, vol. 23,
no. 8, pp. 101 397–101 410, 2020.
[28] A. Siyaev and G.-S. Jo, “Towards aircraft maintenance metaverse using
speech interactions with virtual objects in mixed reality,” Sensors,
vol. 21, no. 6, pp. 2066–2087, 2021.
[29] M. Liu, S. Fang, H. Dong, and C. Xu, “Review of digital twin
about concepts, technologies, and industrial applications,” Journal of
Manufacturing Systems, vol. 58, pp. 346–361, 2021.
[30] J. D. N. Dionisio, W. G. Burns III, and R. Gilbert, “3d virtual worlds and
the metaverse: Current status and future possibilities,” ACM Computing
Surveys, vol. 45, no. 3, pp. 1–38, 2013.
[31] H. J. Jeon, H. C. Youn, S. M. Ko, and T. H. Kim, “Blockchain and ai
meet in the metaverse,” Advances in the Convergence of Blockchain and
Artificial Intelligence, pp. 73–83, 2022.
[32] C. Zhang, G. Zhou, H. Li, and Y. Cao, “Manufacturing blockchain of
things for the configuration of a data-and knowledge-driven digital twin
manufacturing cell,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 12, pp.
11 884–11 894, 2020.
[33] M. Sharples and J. Domingue, “The blockchain and kudos: A distributed
system for educational record, reputation and reward,” in European
Conference On Technology Enhanced Learning. Springer, 2016, pp.
490–496.
[34] D. C. Nguyen, M. Ding, P. N. Pathirana, A. Seneviratne, J. Li, D. Niyato,
O. Dobre, and H. V. Poor, “6G internet of things: A comprehensive
survey,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 359–386,
2022.
[35] W. Gan, J. C. W. Lin, H. C. Chao, S. L. Wang, and P. S. Yu, “Privacy
preserving utility mining: a survey,” in IEEE International Conference
on Big Data. IEEE, 2018, pp. 2617–2626.
[36] N. Friesen, The textbook and the lecture: Education in the age of new
media. JHU Press, 2017.
[37] B. E. Starichenko, A. V. Slepukhin, and L. V. Sardak, “On interaction
of educational environments of different levels,” Mediterranean Journal
of Social Sciences, vol. 6, no. 5 S4, pp. 486–486, 2015.
[38] W. Paik, J. Y. Lee, and E. McMahon, “Facilitating collaborative learning
in virtual (and sometimes mobile) environments,” in The International
Conference on Web Information Systems Engineering. Springer, 2004,
pp. 161–166.
[39] R. Yavich and B. Starichenko, “Design of education methods in a virtual
environment,” Journal of Education and Training Studies, vol. 5, no. 9,
pp. 176–186, 2017.
[40] B. E. Starichenko, “Professional standards and ict teacher competency,”
Teacher Education in Russia, vol. 7, pp. 6–15, 2015.
[41] F. Noguchi, J. R. Guevara, and R. Yorozu, Communities in Action:
Lifelong Learning for Sustainable Development. ERIC, 2015.
[42] M. Singh, Global perspectives on recognising non-formal and informal
learning: Why recognition matters. Springer Nature, 2015.
[43] J. Parong and R. E. Mayer, “Cognitive and affective processes for
learning science in immersive virtual reality,” Journal of Computer
Assisted Learning, vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 226–241, 2021.
[44] A. Lehikko, “Measuring self-efficacy in immersive virtual learning
environments: A systematic literature review,” Journal of Interactive
Learning Research, vol. 32, no. 2, pp. 125–146, 2021.
[45] M. Thompson, C. Uz Bilgin, M. S. Tutwiler, M. Anteneh, J. C. Meija,
A. Wang, P. Tan, R. Eberhardt, D. Roy, and J. Perry, “Immersion
positively affects learning in virtual reality games compared to equally
interactive 2d games,” Information and Learning Sciences, vol. 122, no.
7-8, pp. 442–463, 2021.
[46] Y. Georgiou, O. Tsivitanidou, and A. Ioannou, “Learning experience
design with immersive virtual reality in physics education,” Educational
Technology Research and Development, vol. 69, no. 6, pp. 3051–3080,
2021.
[47] V. Mohan, “On the use of blockchain-based mechanisms to tackle
academic misconduct,” Research Policy, vol. 48, no. 9, p. 103805, 2019.
[48] H. Kanematsu, Y. Fukumura, D. M. Barry, S. Y. Sohn, and R. Taguchi,
“Multilingual discussion in metaverse among students from the usa,
korea and japan,” in The International Conference on Knowledge-Based
and Intelligent Information and Engineering Systems. Springer, 2010,
pp. 200–209.
[49] M. Slater, “Immersion and the illusion of presence in virtual reality,”
British Journal of Psychology, vol. 109, no. 3, pp. 431–433, 2018.
[50] H. S. Choi and S. H. Kim, “A content service deployment plan for
metaverse museum exhibitionscentering on the combination of beacons
and HMDs,” International Journal of Information Management, vol. 37,
no. 1, pp. 1519–1527, 2017.
[51] M. Rothmeyer, “Augmented reality in education,” https://mobcoder.com/
blog/augmented-reality-in-education/, 2021.
[52] S. Rokhsaritalemi, A. Sadeghi Niaraki, and S. M. Choi, “A review
on mixed reality: Current trends, challenges and prospects,” Applied
Sciences, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 636–662, 2020.
[53] W. Hoenig, C. Milanes, L. Scaria, T. Phan, M. Bolas, and N. Ayanian,
“Mixed reality for robotics,” in The International Conference on Intel-
ligent Robots and Systems. IEEE, 2015, pp. 5382–5387.
[54] E. Costanza, A. Kunz, and M. Fjeld, “Mixed reality: A survey,” in
Human machine interaction. Springer, 2009, pp. 47–68.
[55] B. K. Mohanta, D. Jena, S. S. Panda, and S. Sobhanayak, “Blockchain
technology: A survey on applications and security privacy challenges,”
Internet of Things, vol. 8, pp. 100 107–100 125, 2019.
[56] J. Park, “Promises and challenges of blockchain in education,” Smart
Learning Environments, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 1–13, 2021.
[57] A. Alammary, S. Alhazmi, M. Almasri, and S. Gillani, “Blockchain-
based applications in education: A systematic review,” Applied Sciences,
vol. 9, no. 12, pp. 2400–2417, 2019.
[58] J. Li, W. Gan, Y. Gui, Y. Wu, and P. S. Yu, “Frequent itemset mining with
local differential privacy,” in The 31st ACM International Conference on
Information and Knowledge Management, 2022, pp. 1146–1155.
[59] H. Taherdoost, S. Chaeikar, M. Jafari, and N. Shojae Chaei Kar,
“Definitions and criteria of cia security triangle in electronic voting
system,” International Journal of Advanced Computer Science and
Information Technology Vol, vol. 1, pp. 14–24, 2013.
[60] S. B. Far and A. I. Rad, “Applying digital twins in metaverse: User
interface, security and privacy challenges,” Journal of Metaverse, vol. 2,
no. 1, pp. 8–16, 2022.
[61] U. Kurmi, “The 7 biggest threats to metaverse,”
2022. [Online]. Available: https://discover.hubpages.com/technology/
The-7-Biggest-Threats-To-Metaverse
[62] J. Singer, “Cybersecurity issues in the gaming
industry portend metaverse challenges,” 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://www.akamai.com/blog/trends/
security-trends-to-address-now-on-our-way-to-the-metaverse
[63] A. Tlili, R. Huang, B. Shehata, D. Liu, J. Zhao, A. H. S. Metwally,
H. Wang, M. Denden, A. Bozkurt, and L. H. Lee, “Is metaverse in
education a blessing or a curse: a combined content and bibliometric
analysis,” Smart Learning Environments, vol. 9, no. 1, pp. 1–31, 2022.
[64] H. Ning, S. Dhelim, M. A. Bouras, A. Khelloufi, and A. Ullah, “Cyber-
syndrome and its formation, classification, recovery and prevention,”
IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 35 501–35 511, 2018.
[65] P. Maharg and M. Owen, “Simulations, learning and the metaverse:
changing cultures in legal education,” Journal of Information, Law,
Technology, vol. 1, pp. 1–28, 2007.
[66] P. Daniel, F. Graldine, F. Kai, M. Eileen, R. Sergio, and W. Erika,
“An introduction to the metaverse for education,” https://www.
meridiantreehouse.com/metaverse-education-guide, 2022.
[67] N. Dużmańska, P. Strojny, and A. Strojny, “Can simulator sickness be
avoided? a review on temporal aspects of simulator sickness,” Frontiers
in Psychology, vol. 9, pp. 2132–2146, 2018.
[68] M. M. Inceoglu and B. Ciloglugil, “Use of metaverse in education,”
in The International Conference on Computational Science and Its
Applications. Springer, 2022, pp. 171–184.
[69] S. Pandey, “Laws and crimes in the metaverse,” https://www.digit.
in/features/metaverse/laws-and-crimes-in-the-metaverse-62738.html,
2022.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.