Analyzing the Bitcoin Network: The First Four Years
future internet
Article
Analyzing the Bitcoin Network: The First Four Years
Matthias Lischke and Benjamin Fabian *
Institute of Information Systems, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Spandauer Str. 1, 10178 Berlin, Germany;
matthias.lischke@googlemail.com
* Correspondence: bfabian@wiwi.hu-berlin.de; Tel.: +49-30-2093-5662
Academic Editor: Thomas Risse
Received: 4 October 2015; Accepted: 2 February 2016; Published: 7 March 2016
Abstract: In this explorative study, we examine the economy and transaction network of the
decentralized digital currency Bitcoin during the first four years of its existence. The objective
is to develop insights into the evolution of the Bitcoin economy during this period. For this, we
establish and analyze a novel integrated dataset that enriches data from the Bitcoin blockchain with
off-network data such as business categories and geo-locations. Our analyses reveal the major Bitcoin
businesses and markets. Our results also give insights on the business distribution by countries and
how businesses evolve over time. We also show that there is a gambling network that features many
very small transactions. Furthermore, regional differences in the adoption and business distribution
could be found. In the network analysis, the small world phenomenon is investigated and confirmed
for several subgraphs of the Bitcoin network.
Keywords: bitcoin; blockchain; cryptocurrencies; electronic payment; network analysis; complex
networks; graph analysis
1. Introduction
Bitcoin is an important electronic and decentralized cryptographic currency system proposed
by Satoshi Nakamoto [1]. It is based on a peer-to-peer architecture and there is no need for a central
authority or central bank to control the money supply within the system [2]. Bitcoin relies on
a proof-of-work system to verify and authenticate the transactions that are carried out in the network.
For further verification purposes all transactions are public [2]. On the high economic relevance of
Bitcoin cf. a plethora of online press articles such as those at the website of The Economist [3].
In this article, we analyze the public transaction history of the first four years of Bitcoin with respect
to economic and network aspects. We have chosen this time period in order to limit the amount of data
to be analyzed and to have a specific time frame that can be compared with later analyses in future work.
This period gives valuable insights into the birth of an important electronic currency. The objective is to
investigate the evolution of the Bitcoin economy during this initial period by enriching the data from the
public ledger with off-network data such as business categories and geo-locations. These novel analyses
supersede some preliminary results [4], especially in the geographic dimension, give insights on the
business distribution by countries and how businesses evolve over time in the network. The descriptive
statistics reveal what the major Bitcoin businesses and markets are. Furthermore, regional differences
in the business distribution could be found. In the network analysis, the small world phenomenon is
investigated and is established for several subgraphs of the Bitcoin network. The analysis of the degree
distribution and power law on the time, business, and country aggregation level reveals that large
portions of the network follow a power law distribution and can be considered as scale-free networks.
Moreover, further network characteristics will be investigated.
This paper is structured as follows. In Section 2, we will give an introduction into the technology
of Bitcoin and the major entities and roles of this economy. In Section 3, related work is discussed.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7; doi:10.3390/fi8010007 www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet
http://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet
http://www.mdpi.com
http://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 2 of 40
Section 4 presents the methods used in our study, in particular the data collection and storage and
the metrics from social network analysis and graph theory that are applied in the later analysis.
The empirical data we collected, its structure and refinement are presented in Section 5. Section 6
presents the results of our investigation, starting with the business-related analyses before turning the
focus to the network structure of Bitcoin transactions. Section 7 concludes the article with a discussion
of limitations and an outlook on future work.
2. Bitcoin Technology and Economy
A Bitcoin can be defined as a chain of digital signatures. By transferring the electronic coin to the
next user it gets digitally signed with a hash of the previous transaction and the public key of the next
owner; adding these together to the end of the Bitcoin. The signatures can be verified by the payee to
prove the chain of ownership [1].
To avoid inflation in the system, a unique feature of the currency is that it has a predetermined
limited number of 21 million coins in circulation. Until that point, which might be reached around
the year 2140, the money supply will increase at a certain rate [5]. To provide some sort of anonymity,
direct personally identifiable information is omitted from the transaction. Therefore, the source
and destination address are encoded in the form of public keys. Every public key that serves as
a pseudonym has a corresponding private key which is stored in the electronic wallet. These are used
to sign or authenticate any transactions. To become part of the peer-to-peer network, one needs to
have a client software that runs either on the own device or as cloud service [6].
A node in the network will not accept multiple transactions using the same inputs. The nodes
accept only the first transaction they receive and reject all subsequent. This is done to prevent double
spending from malicious users and is part of the proof-of-work concept [5].
The main idea behind the proof-of-work system is to make it expensive for a single user or a group
of users to rewrite the history of transactions once it has been accepted as definite. This should prevent
malicious users from double spending their Bitcoins [6].
The solution that Nakamoto [1] proposed is the use of a timestamp server that takes the hash
of a block of items, timestamps it, and widely publishes the hash. The proof of work involves using
hash algorithms such as SHA-256 to find a specific value. The objective is to increment a nonce in the
block until a value is found that results in a required number of zero bits. The average work to do so is
exponential with the number of zero bits, but the result can be easily verified. There is a predetermined
target difficulty that is updated for every 2016 blocks that have been generated. This ensures that the
time it takes to generate one block is on average about 10 min. The block is only accepted by users
if all transactions in it are valid and the Bitcoins have not been spent previously. Users show their
acceptance by using the newly found hash in the “previous hash” section of the next block they attempt
to generate; thus adding a new block to the chain. This chain is called the block chain or transaction
log and contains the entire history of all transactions that have been carried out in the network [5].
The generation of blocks by users is called mining and is achieved through providing a certain
amount of computation power to the network to solve the proof-of-work problem. The expending of
computation power is rewarded when generating a block. There is competition to get the reward, and
the more computation power a user or group possesses the better the chance to get it. The reward is
predetermined and started at 50 BTC. It will decrease by half every 210,000 blocks. In that way new
Bitcoins are introduced to the network. This procedure will continue until the predetermined final
amount of 21 million Bitcoins is in circulation, around the year 2140.
Figure 1 shows a general overview of the Bitcoin economy with its major participants. Users can
exchange their fiat currencies into Bitcoins via exchange platforms or local exchanges (1); withdraw
money from recently introduced Bitcoin ATMs (2); store Bitcoins in an online wallet (3); use payment
services in transactions with online merchants (4); pay with Bitcoins in local shops or bars (5); gamble
with Bitcoins on various gaming platforms (6); incorporate transactions in a block, called mining (7);
thus verifying the transactions and publish it to the network via the block chain (8).
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 3 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  3 of 42 
with Bitcoins on various gaming platforms (6); incorporate transactions in a block, called mining (7); 
thus verifying the transactions and publish it to the network via the block chain (8). 
 
Figure 1. The Bitcoin Economy. 
There is a vast amount of merchants and services that already accept Bitcoins as a currency in 
exchange for their offerings. The services can be mainly categorized into exchanges, wallets, mining, 
payments, gambling, and vendors.   
•  Exchanges: on exchanges one can trade their fiat currencies, other crypto currencies, and even 
gold  into  Bitcoins.  The  exchange  platforms  are  mainly  electronic  but  there  are  also  local 
exchanges. 
• Wallets: web wallets are similar to banks in the real economy where Bitcoins owned by users 
can be centrally stored on online platforms. The major advantage is that users can access their 
Bitcoins from every device connected to the web and have less effort to protect their wallet. 
• Mining: mining is the contribution to the coin generation process, mainly executed in a mining 
pool. For a definition and comparison of mining pools see [7]. In such mining pools, miners share 
their computing resources and each participant receives a reward for the particular contribution 
of computing power. 
• Payments: payment services enable online merchants to accept Bitcoins in the same way as they 
accept Visa  or Paypal payments  in  their  local  currency.  It  reduces  transaction  costs,  avoids 
chargebacks, Bitcoin exchanges rate risks, and identity thefts.   
• Gambling: gambling services offer a wide variety of online games such as dice games, roulette, 
and other casino related games where users can gamble with their Bitcoins.   
• Vendors:  via  online merchants  users  can  exchange  their  Bitcoins  for  almost  every  kind  of 
product such as multimedia content, electronics, travel, gift cards, clothing etc. There are also 
vendors that function as marketplaces such as Ebay. 
The nature of Bitcoin services  is quite unstable due to regulations or unsecure platforms that 
facilitate theft. The online merchant Silk Road was shut down because of trading illegal goods while 
the online wallet services MyBitcoin and Instawallet were closed due to several thefts [8]. 
  
Figure 1. The Bitcoin Economy.
There is a vast amount of merchants and services that already accept Bitcoins as a currency in
exchange for their offerings. The services can be mainly categorized into exchanges, wallets, mining,
payments, gambling, and vendors.
‚ Exchanges: on exchanges one can trade their fiat currencies, other crypto currencies, and even
gold into Bitcoins. The exchange platforms are mainly electronic but there are also local exchanges.
‚ Wallets: web wallets are similar to banks in the real economy where Bitcoins owned by users
can be centrally stored on online platforms. The major advantage is that users can access their
Bitcoins from every device connected to the web and have less effort to protect their wallet.
‚ Mining: mining is the contribution to the coin generation process, mainly executed in a mining
pool. For a definition and comparison of mining pools see [7]. In such mining pools, miners share
their computing resources and each participant receives a reward for the particular contribution
of computing power.
‚ Payments: payment services enable online merchants to accept Bitcoins in the same way as
they accept Visa or Paypal payments in their local currency. It reduces transaction costs, avoids
chargebacks, Bitcoin exchanges rate risks, and identity thefts.
‚ Gambling: gambling services offer a wide variety of online games such as dice games, roulette,
and other casino related games where users can gamble with their Bitcoins.
‚ Vendors: via online merchants users can exchange their Bitcoins for almost every kind of product
such as multimedia content, electronics, travel, gift cards, clothing etc. There are also vendors that
function as marketplaces such as Ebay.
The nature of Bitcoin services is quite unstable due to regulations or unsecure platforms that
facilitate theft. The online merchant Silk Road was shut down because of trading illegal goods while
the online wallet services MyBitcoin and Instawallet were closed due to several thefts [8].
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 4 of 40
3. Related Work
Most of the recent research focuses on the de-anonymization of Bitcoin users by introducing
clustering heuristics to form a user network. To gain knowledge and get novel insights about the
economic relationships between users this is an essential criterion. Furthermore, linking external
information, relate to executed transactions, is an important step in analyzing the Bitcoin economy.
Reid and Harrigan [2] developed a clustering heuristic to form a user network by creating
meaningful groups of users out of the vast amount of pseudonymous addresses (public keys) involved
in transactions. The main idea is that multiple inputs of different public keys into a single transaction
probably belong to the same user since the use of the corresponding private keys is highly coordinated.
In order to construct the user network, all public keys that belong to the same user need to be clustered
into one node or user entity. This user network represents the flow of Bitcoins between users over
time. This clustering heuristic holds true if users do not share their private keys, but this is not
always the case, for example in the case of web wallets that pool many private keys and would
therefore mistakenly be clustered as a single user [9]. The clustering approach was extended by
Androulaki et al. [10] who use another property in the Bitcoin protocol that is more complex but not
that reliable in comparison to multi-input transactions. Since Bitcoins transacted from a single address
need to be fully spent, the change is collected back to a newly generated address, the “shadow” or
“change” address. In a transaction with two outputs, where one address has never appeared before
in the block chain while the other address is public in the block chain, one can assume that the new
address belongs to the user who initiated the transaction [10]. This approach is very reliable under the
assumption that users rarely issue transactions to two different users. Pay-outs from mining pools
or bets on gaming sites are examples where this is not always the case. Hence, Meiklejohn et al. [8]
refined the clustering heuristics to account for these and other circumstances to increase the reliability.
Beside the clustering heuristics one want to add further information (e.g., IP addresses, geo-locations,
businesses, and trade data from exchanges), which are related to transactions, to the user network. In their
research Reid and Harrigan [2] also proposed several methods to overcome anonymity including the
integration from off-network information such as email addresses, shipping addresses, IP addresses,
or bank and credit card details. This information is mainly held by businesses that accept Bitcoin as
payment and other services like exchanges, laundry services and mixers. The researchers use a number
of publicly available sources and integrate their information with the user network. For instance, they
scraped the web site Bitcoin Faucet over time and were able to associate IP addresses with the public
keys involved in the transaction. Thus, they could plot a map of geo-located IP addresses belonging to
users who received Bitcoins over a period of one week and overlay it with the user network.
Another approach of getting an IP address related to a transaction, was introduced by Kaminsky [11].
It exploits a leakage at the TCP/IP layer in the Bitcoin system. When a user is connected to every node
in the peer-to-peer network, then the first node that publishes a transaction can be safely assumed the
initiator of it; thus, the related IP address can be linked to that user [11].
Ortega [12] downloaded and analyzed the publicly available IP addresses related to transactions
from the site Blockchain.info for a short time horizon. The data was then linked to public known
IP addresses from anonymizing services such as Tor and Proxies. The results show that around one
percent of transactions could be related to anonymizing services.
One more valuable source of identifying information is the voluntary disclosure of public keys by
users on Bitcoin forums or other social network sites such as Twitter streams [2].
Meiklejohn et al. [8] gathered external data from various Bitcoin services such as gambling, mining,
exchanges, and vendors to link it with public keys that interact with those businesses. Therefore they
engaged in 344 transactions with a wide variety of different types of services. Another approach
they propose is the collection from publicly available sources where users claim their own addresses.
The site Blockchain.info provides the information in a convenient way via tagging the transactions
with the associated business. With the collected data and the applied clustering heuristics they were
able to classify a vast number of transactions in the user network [8].
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 5 of 40
Spagnuolo [9] introduced a tool called BitIodine that includes several external data from various
sources such as Mt.Gox, Bitcointalk, and Blockchain.info in the analysis of the Bitcoin network.
Through the APIs from Mt.Gox and Blockchain.info and several scrapers the researcher is able to
gather most recent data about the transactions and the associated Bitcoin users [9].
Linking external information to transactions and subsequently to the formed user network gives
meaningful insights in transaction flows and the overall Bitcoin economy.
4. Methods
Data management and network metrics for our study are introduced in the following.
4.1. Data Collection and Management
The Python 2.7 [13] based data scraper [14] builds the Bitcoin user network from the Bitcoin data files
generated by the official Bitcoin client [15]. The programming and execution of the tool was conducted
by Brugere [16] and is therefore out of scope in this work, but part of the complete architecture.
For gathering additional data from the websites blockchain.info and ipinfo.io, which are related
to Bitcoin transactions, two Java-based data scrapers were programmed with the workbench Eclipse
SDK [17]. The data was managed using an Oracle 11g database system.
NetworkX [18] is a Python based software package, which provides a large number of algorithms
to analyze complex networks. It also comes with the functionality to visualize networks. Packages that
can be used for visualization include MatPlotLib (PyLab) [19] or PyGraphviz [20], a Python interface
to the Graphviz graph layout and visualization package. The tool is an essential part in analyzing the
Bitcoin user network. Another powerful tool for network analysis, and especially for visualization of
networks, is Gephi [21]. The tool will be used to visualize interesting subgraphs of the Bitcoin network.
The software environment Cran-R [22] is used for a wide area of statistical computing and
graphics. We use it in our study for explorative spatial data analysis. This requires specific packages
that can handle geographic data and are able to produce plots of maps. The general package for spatial
data is [23]. For reading geographic data such as shape files the package maptools [24] is required.
To visualize colored maps according to variables, the package RColorBrewer [25] is adopted.
4.2. Network Metrics
Several network metrics are used to analyze the structure and the dynamics of the Bitcoin network.
4.2.1. Degree Distribution and Power Laws
The degree distribution captures the structure of the network in terms of the individual
connectivity of nodes. The degree of a node can be calculated for ingoing and outgoing connections as
well as the total, i.e., the sum of ingoing and outgoing connections of a node [26,27]. The degree
distribution P pkq gives the probability that a randomly selected node has exactly the degree k.
In random networks the majority of nodes have approximately the same degree, close to the average
degree k of the network; thus following a Poisson distribution with a peak at P
´
k
¯
[28].
In contrast to random networks, real networks, such as social networks, the Internet, or citation
networks, often follow a power law or scale-free distribution. The power law in terms of networks
states that there are is a non-negligible number of highly connected nodes even though the majority
of nodes are low connected. The probability that a new incoming node connects to an existing node
is proportional to the degree k of that node; hence, becoming a scale-free network. This can be
expressed in the form P pkq „ k´a where a denotes a constant and k is the degree of a node in the
network [29–31].
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 6 of 40
An important way for investigating the long tail of high degree nodes is to use the cumulative
distribution function, which is the probability that the degree is greater than or equal to k.
P pkq “
8
ř
k1“k
P
`
k1
˘
P pkq „
8
ř
k1“k
k1´a „ k´pa´1q
(1)
This has the advantage that all the original data is represented, in contrast to conventional
histograms [30]. The cumulative distribution function P pkq also follows a power law but with
an exponent of a ´ 1, which is one less than the original exponent a. The most common way
to estimate a is fitting a slope of the line in plots of the cumulative distribution [31]. Power law
distributions can be found in many real networks. Newman [31] summarized several of them, such as
word frequency, citations, telephone calls, web hits, or the wealth of the richest people. Barabasi, Albert
and Jeong [32] have investigated this phenomenon for the World Wide Web and Inaoka et al. [33] for
financial transaction networks.
4.2.2. Clustering
The clustering coefficient measures the network’s transitivity. If a node A is connected to node
B, and node B to node C, then there could be an increased probability that node A is also connected
to node C. In the social network context this is described with: the friend of your friend is likely also
your friend. In terms of network topology this reflects the presence of an increased number of triangles
within the network [30]. A large number of networks show the tendency of such a formation between
neighboring nodes in contrast to uncorrelated random networks. Equation (2) shows the formula for
the local clustering coefficient (above) and for the average or global clustering coefficient (below).
Ci “
2T piq
ki pki ´ 1q
CG “
1
N
N
ř
i
Ci
(2)
The local clustering coefficient Ci is defined as the number of triangles in which node i participates
normalized by the maximum number of such triangles. T piq denotes the number of triangles through
node i and k is the degree of node i. If Ci “ 0 then none of the neighbors of a node are connected, and
if Ci “ 1 then all of the neighbors are connected.
The average clustering coefficient or global clustering coefficient CG is the mean of all local
coefficients Ci [34]. With the average clustering coefficient CG one can measure the global cliquishness
in the graph. Watts and Strogatz [35] introduced the clustering coefficient to graphs as part of
discovering the small world phenomenon within networks.
4.2.3. Shortest Path Length
The Average Shortest Path Length is defined as the average number of steps along the shortest
paths for all possible pairs of nodes and measures the efficiency of information or mass transport in
the network. Examples are the number of average clicks to reach a website or the people one has to
communicate through in a social network to contact a complete stranger.
The average shortest path length is defined as follows. In a network G with a set of nodes N the
shortest distance between node i and j (i, j P N) is defined as distpni, nj). If ni “ nj or ni cannot
be reached from nj then dist
`
ni, nj
˘
“ 0 and if ni “ nj or there is no path between ni and nj then
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 7 of 40
has_path
`
ni, nj
˘
= 0. With the existence of a path from ni to nj, has_path
`
ni, nj
˘
= 1 and the average
shortest path length for network G (ASPLG) can be calculated as shown in Equation (3) (top).
ASPLG “
řN
i,j distpni, njq
řN
i,j has_path
`
ni, nj
˘
ASPLG “
N
ř
i,j
dist
`
ni, nj
˘
N pN ´ 1q
(3)
N denotes the number of nodes in network G,
řN
i,j distpni, njq is the value of all-pairs shortest path
length of network G and
řN
i,j has_path
`
ni, nj
˘
is the number of paths that exist in the network G.
For a connected undirected graph
řN
i,j has_path
`
ni, nj
˘
can be replaced by N pN ´ 1q as seen in
Equation (5) (bottom), because paths exist between any pair of nodes [36].
The average shortest path length is used in combination with the average clustering coefficient to
identify the small world phenomenon [35].
4.2.4. Centrality
Centrality measures the importance, influence or power of a node in the network and is widely
applied in social network analysis. Important metrics have been introduced by Freeman [37]: degree
centrality, betweenness centrality, and closeness centrality. Betweenness and closeness centrality count
only geodesic paths, assuming that messages or transactions in a network flow only along the shortest
possible paths. The eigenvector measure [38] counts walks, which assumes that trajectories can also
revisit nodes and edges multiple times [39].
The degree centrality is based on the degree, i.e., the number of links or direct connections that one node
i has. To compare the degree centrality among networks of different size, one has to normalize by dividing
the measure by the maximum possible number of adjacent connections, N´ 1 (Equation (4), below).
CD pniq “
N
ř
i
aij
C1D pniq “
řN
i aij
N´ 1
(4)
Nodes with higher degree centrality CD pniq or connections are more central to the network
structure and tend to have more influence on others [37].
The betweenness centrality is based on the number of shortest paths passing through a node.
Nodes with high betweenness play a central role in connecting different groups in a network.
In Equation (5) gjk piq is all geodesics linking node j and node k which pass through node i, and
gjk is the geodesic distance between node j and k.
CB pniq “
N
ř
jăk
gjk piq
gjk
C1B pniq “
řN
jăk
gjk piq
gjk
1
2
N pN´ 1q
(5)
In social networks, nodes with high betweenness are the brokers and connectors that bring other
groups in the network together. Nodes with the highest betweenness centrality measure result in the
largest increase in a typical distance between others when they are removed [40]. The normalized
version of the formula is shown in Equation (5) (bottom). It is normalized by the maximum number of
pairs of nodes excluding the node itself [41].
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 8 of 40
The closeness centrality emphasizes the distance of a node to all other nodes in the network by
focusing on the geodesic distance from each node to all others. Closeness centrality can be regarded as
measure of how long it will take information to spread from a given node to others in the network.
In Equation (6), Cc pniq is the closeness centrality and calculated by the sum of the inverse distances
d
`
ni, nj
˘
between two nodes in the network [40].
Cc pniq “
N
ř
i
1
d
`
ni, nj
˘
C1c pniq “
«
N
ř
i
d
`
ni, nj
˘
N´ 1
ff´1 (6)
The node decentrality or inverse centrality grows when nodes are far apart, and centrality in this
context means closeness. Information or other goods originated in the most central position of the
network would spread throughout the network in minimum time. The most central node in the network
is that with the minimum costs or time for communicating with all others. To remove the impact of the
network size for comparability the formula is adjusted as seen in Equation (6) (bottom) [37].
The introduced centrality measures can be used to examine important hubs (degree) and brokers
(betweenness) as well as to assess how efficiently information flows (closeness) within the network.
5. Data
The initial dataset that needs to be extracted is the Bitcoin transaction data, which is publicly
available due to the proof-of-work concept for verification of transactions. This data can be scraped
either from sites such as Blockexplorer.com or Blockchain.info, or by using a Bitcoin client that stores
the entire transaction history (block chain). Secondly, additional data is scraped to enhance the dataset
with meaningful information (e.g., IP, Geo, and Trade data) about transactions. In a third step, the data
model is derived and loaded into the database. Figure 2 illustrates the data flow process.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  8 of 42 
In Equation (6),    is the closeness centrality and calculated by the sum of the inverse distances 
,   between two nodes in the network [40]. 
1
,
 
′
,
1
 
(6) 
The node decentrality or inverse centrality grows when nodes are far apart, and centrality in this 
context means closeness. Information or other goods originated in the most central position of the 
network would  spread  throughout  the network  in minimum  time. The most  central node  in  the 
network is that with the minimum costs or time for communicating with all others. To remove the 
impact of the network size for comparability the formula is adjusted as seen in Equation (6) (bottom) [37]. 
The introduced centrality measures can be used to examine important hubs (degree) and brokers 
(betweenness) as well as to assess how efficiently information flows (closeness) within the network. 
5. Data 
The initial dataset that needs to be extracted is the Bitcoin transaction data, which is publicly 
available due to the proof‐of‐work concept for verification of transactions. This data can be scraped 
either from sites such as Blockexplorer.com or Blockchain.info, or by using a Bitcoin client that stores 
the  entire  transaction  history  (block  chain).  Secondly,  additional  data  is  scraped  to  enhance  the 
dataset with meaningful  information  (e.g.,  IP, Geo, and Trade data) about  transactions.  In a  third 
step, the data model is derived and loaded into the database. Figure 2 illustrates the data flow process. 
 
Figure 2. Data Flow Process. 
5.1. Bitcoin Transaction Data 
The transaction dataset that serves as a basis for this analysis was extracted from a full node 
Bitcoin client (version 0.5.3.1) with a Python 2.7 data scraper. The data scraper tool [42] from Brugere 
[16]  extends  the  Bitcoin  tools  developed  by Martin Harrigan  and  Gavin Andresen. With  these 
extensions it is possible to create the user network that was introduced by Reid and Harrigan [2]. The 
tool processes the Bitcoin.dat binary files that are part of the synchronized Bitcoin client software and 
transforms it into human readable raw text files as CSV. The first group of files, public_key.txt and 
Figure 2. Data Flow Process.
5.1. Bitcoin Transaction Data
The transaction dataset that serves as a basis for this analysis was extracted from a full node Bitcoin
client (version 0.5.3.1) with a Python 2.7 data scraper. The data scraper tool [42] from Brugere [16]
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 9 of 40
extends the Bitcoin tools developed by Martin Harrigan and Gavin Andresen. With these extensions
it is possible to create the user network that was introduced by Reid and Harrigan [2]. The tool
processes the Bitcoin.dat binary files that are part of the synchronized Bitcoin client software and
transforms it into human readable raw text files as CSV. The first group of files, public_key.txt and
transaction_key.txt contain the real hash values used in transactions within the Bitcoin network.
With these values, additional information to the public key or the transaction can be retrieved from
sites like Blockchain.info or Blockexplorer.com. The user information is organized by the second
group of files (input_transaction_keys.txt, input_public_keys.txt, and user_keys.txt), where a “user” is
a grouping of public keys that were used as inputs into a single transaction (user owns the private
key to each address) as proposed by Reid and Harrigan [2]. Each line in user_keys.txt is a grouping of
public keys as illustrated in Figure 3.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  9 of 42 
transaction_key.txt contain the real hash values used in transactions within the Bitcoin network. With 
these values, additional information to the public key or the transaction can be retrieved from sites 
like Blockchain.info or Blockexplorer.com. The user information is organized by the second group of 
files  (input_transaction_keys.txt,  input_public_keys.txt,  and  user_keys.txt),  where  a  “user”  is  a 
grouping of public keys that were used as inputs into a single transaction (user owns the private key 
to each address) as proposed by Reid and Harrigan [2]. Each line in user_keys.txt is a grouping of 
public keys as illustrated in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. Forming the User Network. 
The file user_edges.txt contains the primary network data, which includes the transaction key, 
the users (transaction from user_from to user_to) involved in this particular transaction, the time the 
transaction occurred in the block chain, and the transmitted value in Bitcoins of this transaction.   
The initial data for this study originates from the data scraper execution by Brugere on the 10th 
April 2013 [16]. It contains 230,686 blocks and has the size of 1.51 GB, resulting in around 37.4 million 
edges and 6.3 million nodes.   
Users can be seen as economic entities with a certain size determined by their number of public 
keys. The transactions between these economic entities are the relationships or edges in the network 
that  come with additional properties. A  simplified  illustration of  the  entity network with nodes, 
edges, and their respective properties of the Bitcoin transactions are shown in Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4. Bitcoin Entity Network. 
5.2. Enriching the Dataset 
To get more insight in the Bitcoin economy and the relationship between different entities and 
geographic regions, additional data related to transactions was scraped from several web sites. The 
retrieved  information  included  the  IP addresses  from  the  initiators of  transactions, a Business  tag 
related to that particular transaction, the geo‐location information from the IP addresses, anonymous 
Tor IP addresses, and trade data from the Mt.Gox exchange. 
5.2.1. IP and Business Tags 
Figure 3. Forming the User Network.
The file user_edges.txt contains the primary network data, which includes the transaction key,
the users (transaction from user_from to user_to) involved in this particular transaction, the time the
transaction occurred in the block chain, and the transmitted value in Bitcoins of this transaction.
The initial data for this study originates from the data scraper execution by Brugere on the
10th April 2013 [16]. It contains 230,686 blocks and has the size of 1.51 GB, resulting in around
37.4 million edges and 6.3 million nodes.
Users can be seen as economic entities with a certain size determined by their number of public
keys. The transactions between these economic entities are the relationships or edges in the network
that come with additional properties. A simplified illustration of the entity network with nodes, edges,
and their respective properties of the Bitcoin transactions are shown in Figure 4.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  9 of 42 
transaction_key.txt contain the real hash values used in transactions within the Bitcoin network. With 
these values, additional information to the public key or the transaction can be retrieved from sites 
like Blockchain.info or Blockexplorer.com. The user information is organized by the second group of 
files  (input_transaction_keys.txt,  input_public_keys.txt,  and  user_keys.txt),  where  a  “user”  is  a 
grouping of public keys that were used as inputs into a single transaction (user owns the private key 
to each address) as proposed by Reid and Harrigan [2]. Each line in user_keys.txt is a grouping of 
public keys as illustrated in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. Forming the User Network. 
The file user_edges.txt contains the primary network data, which includes the transaction key, 
the users (transaction from user_from to user_to) involved in this particular transaction, the time the 
transaction occurred in the block chain, and the transmitted value in Bitcoins of this transaction.   
The initial data for this study originates from the data scraper execution by Brugere on the 10th 
April 2013 [16]. It contains 230,686 blocks and has the size of 1.51 GB, resulting in around 37.4 million 
edges and 6.3 million nodes.   
Users can be seen as economic entities with a certain size determined by their number of public 
keys. The transactions between these economic entities are the relationships or edges in the network 
that  come with additional properties. A  simplified  illustration of  the  entity network with nodes, 
edges, and their respective properties of the Bitcoin transactions are shown in Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4. Bitcoin Entity Network. 
5.2. Enriching the Dataset 
To get more insight in the Bitcoin economy and the relationship between different entities and 
geographic regions, additional data related to transactions was scraped from several web sites. The 
retrieved  information  included  the  IP addresses  from  the  initiators of  transactions, a Business  tag 
related to that particular transaction, the geo‐location information from the IP addresses, anonymous 
Tor IP addresses, and trade data from the Mt.Gox exchange. 
5.2.1. IP and Business Tags 
Figure 4. Bitcoin Entity Network.
5.2. Enriching the Dataset
To get more insight in the Bitcoin economy and the relationship between different entities
and geographic regions, additional data related to transactions was scraped from several web sites.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 10 of 40
The retrieved information included the IP addresses from the initiators of transactions, a Business tag
related to that particular transaction, the geo-location information from the IP addresses, anonymous
Tor IP addresses, and trade data from the Mt.Gox exchange.
5.2.1. IP and Business Tags
The most relevant information needed for this study is the IP address and the business tag from
the initiator of a transaction. With the IP address one can derive information on how transactions
are distributed geographically and generate aggregations based on country, region, or city level.
Blockchain.info publishes the “relayed by” IP address which is derived with techniques introduced
by Kaminsky [11], which means that the first node that informs about a transaction is, with high
probability, also the source of it.
The tag for public key addresses is provided voluntary by the owner and can be used to categorize
and aggregate transactions on different business levels such as gambling, mining, or exchanging.
The IP addresses and tags, as well as other information, related to transactions are publicly available
and can be accessed via a JSON API (JavaScript Object Notation) [43]. This technique makes the
information accessible in a convenient way. The only parameter that is needed is the real transaction
key. Since there are over 15.8 million transactions, an unlimited API access was requested and
granted by the Blockchain.info administrator. The built Java scraper executes an URL request with the
required parameter and retrieves the data from the JSON format via regular expressions (java regex).
With “rawtx” one gets all available information to a single transaction in JSON format, such as the
block height, the transacted values and the public keys involved.
Around 400 thousand transactions and their respective IP and tag data could be retrieved per
day; thus, it took over 40 days to scrap the entire data from Blockchain.info.
5.2.2. IP Geo-location
With the previously scraped IP addresses one can derive additional information about the geo
location, hostname, or the organization that is related to the IP. The site ipinfo.io provides all this
information in the JSON format and can be accessed with an API, in the same way as Blockchain.info.
Therefore, a second java scraper was built to retrieve the data from ipinfo.io. The database query
resulted in over 223 thousand distinct IP addresses used in around 15.8 million transactions.
5.2.3. Tor and Proxy Nodes
To obfuscate the IP address from transactions, some users adopt anonymous proxies, VPNs, or Tor.
For the geo-location of IP addresses and their respective economic entities one has to identify transactions
that were executed via the Tor network, because one cannot surely determine the location based on these
IP addresses. Therefore, all current Tor server and Tor server exit node IP addresses were downloaded
as CSV files from the site torstatus.blutmagie.de. Another site that provides a list of Tor servers is
dan.me.uk/torlist, where an additional list of IP addresses was extracted. Besides the Tor network, there
are other proxy services that can be used; hence, IP addresses from known proxy servers were extracted
from the site vpngeeks.com/proxylist. Subsequently, a combined list of Tor and proxy IP addresses was
created that contains around 960 Tor exit nodes, 11,000 Tor servers, and 950 proxy servers.
5.2.4. Trade Data
The trade data from one of the most liquid exchange platforms for Bitcoins give insights on the
money in- and outflows of the Bitcoin economy. To get an appropriate time horizon according to the
network data and an exchange rate of the preferred currency used in the economy, the trading platform
Mt.Gox and the exchange rate BTC/USD were chosen. The site bitcoincharts.com [44] provides
historical trading data from the BTC/USD exchange rate for the chosen time horizon 17th July 2010 to
23rd December 2013. The data contain the trading date, open, high, low, and close price, the trading
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 11 of 40
volume in BTC and USD, and the weighted price. To analyze a particular trading day or special trades
more thoroughly, the granularity can be adjusted down to one minute if preferred.
5.3. Final Data Model
After extracting data from several web sites, one has to incorporate it into a data model that can
be used for further analyses and aggregations. Figure 5 shows the final data model for this study that
contains all relevant information. Model and data are loaded into the Oracle 11g database. The central
table is the Bitcoin transaction network, which is enriched by transaction-related data.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  11 of 42 
contains all relevant information. Model and data are loaded into the Oracle 11g database. The central 
table is the Bitcoin transaction network, which is enriched by transaction‐related data. 
 
Figure 5. Final Data Model. 
6. Analysis and Results 
In this section, the analyses on the previously introduced final data model are conducted. Several 
aggregations on the business category, geo‐location and time level will be examined to get a thorough 
insight into the Bitcoin economy. Furthermore, the network metrics will be applied to analyze the 
structure of the Bitcoin economy and identify important hubs, clusters, brokers, and to investigate 
the existence of the small world phenomenon within the network. 
6.1. Statistics 
6.1.1. Bitcoin General Statistics 
Table 1 comprises some general descriptive statistics of the network data. In the time from 3rd 
January 2009, when the first transaction was carried out, until the 10th April 2013, around 6.3 million 
user entities were engaged in over 15.8 million transactions in the Bitcoin network. Since users can 
spend Bitcoins with different amounts to many other nodes, the entire network has over 37.4 million 
relationships. Hence, the Bitcoin economy can be seen as a large‐scale transaction network. 
The statistics of  the Bitcoin network were aggregated on a daily bases. The  transaction value 
ranges from a minimum of 50 BTC (initial transaction) to almost 30 million BTC per day, which was 
reached on the 19th September 2012. The low median and mean as well as the high skewness indicate 
that the majority of executed transactions have very low values. On the 9th April 2013, the number 
of active users  reached  its peak  (36,120) and  can be  related  to  the  speculation hype at  this  time, 
resulting in a new record high on the exchange rate with around 201 BTC/USD. The highest number 
of transactions (189,284) on the network occurred in the same time horizon and was reached on the 
3rd April 2013. The distributions of users and transactions indicate a rather low activity on an average 
daily bases in the network according to the statistics. 
Table 1. Descriptive Statistics of the Bitcoin Network (on daily bases). 
  Median  Mean Sd Skew Min Max Correl [EXRate]
Transaction Value [BTC]  173,457  910,053  2,231,647  7  50  29,958,714  0.199 
Number of Users  1637  4049  5243  2  1  36,120  0.730 
Number of Transactions 3,678  24,084  38,303  2  1  189,284  0.680 
Dataset: 03.01.2009–10.04.2013; Transactions (Relations): 37,450,461; Economic Entities (Nodes): 6,336,769. 
Figure 5. Final Data Model.
6. Analysis and Results
In this section, the analyses on the previously introduced final data model are conducted.
Several aggregations on the business category, geo-location and time level will be examined to get
a thorough insight into the Bitcoin economy. Furthermore, the network metrics will be applied to
analyze the structure of the Bitcoin economy and identify important hubs, clusters, brokers, and to
investigate the existence of the small world phenomenon within the network.
6.1. Statistics
6.1.1. Bitcoin General Statistics
Table 1 comprises some general descriptive statistics of the network data. In the time from
3rd January 2009, when the first transaction was carried out, until the 10th April 2013, around
6.3 million user entities were engaged in over 15.8 million transactions in the Bitcoin network. Since users
can spend Bitcoins with different amounts to many other nodes, the entire network has over
37.4 million relationships. Hence, the Bitcoin economy can be seen as a large-scale transaction network.
Table 1. Descriptive Statistics of the Bitcoin Network (on daily bases).
Median Mean Sd Skew Min Max Correl [EXRate]
Transaction Value [BTC] 173,457 910,053 2,231,647 7 50 29,958,714 0.199
Number of Users 1637 4049 5243 2 1 36,120 0.730
Number of Transactions 3678 24,084 38,303 2 1 189,284 0.680
Dataset: 03.01.2009–10.04.2013; Transactions (Relations): 37,450,461; Economic Entities (Nodes): 6,336,769.
The statistics of the Bitcoin network were aggregated on a daily bases. The transaction value
ranges from a minimum of 50 BTC (initial transaction) to almost 30 million BTC per day, which
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 12 of 40
was reached on the 19th September 2012. The low median and mean as well as the high skewness
indicate that the majority of executed transactions have very low values. On the 9th April 2013, the
number of active users reached its peak (36,120) and can be related to the speculation hype at this time,
resulting in a new record high on the exchange rate with around 201 BTC/USD. The highest number
of transactions (189,284) on the network occurred in the same time horizon and was reached on the
3rd April 2013. The distributions of users and transactions indicate a rather low activity on an average
daily bases in the network according to the statistics.
To examine the relationship between the user activity and the trading behavior on exchanges
(here Mt.Gox as a representative), the time series of the trading volume and the exchange rate
from Mt.Gox are compared to the user activity with different rolling windows over time. There is
a strong relationship between the user activity and the exchange rate when considering the correlation
coefficients in Table 2. Although there is a positive relationship of activity in the network to the trading
behavior, the correlation to the trade volume is rather low. This indicates that a majority of users
might not be active in the exchange business and therefore have no relationship to the traded volume.
Another point is that the volume is not separated into buys and sells; hence, the correlation coefficient
between the exchange rate and the volume is 0.22. In Figure 6, one can see that peaks in the exchange
rate are followed by an increase in user activity; thus giving sign for high interest and speculative
behavior in the Bitcoin economy. The relationship between user activity and trading behavior is very
close to the actual exchange rate movements, as can be seen by the correlation coefficients for the 1 day
and 10 days rolling window.
Table 2. Correlation Matrix (User Activity and Trade Behavior).
Trade Measure
User Activity (Rolling Windows)
1 Day 10 Days 30 Days 100 Days
BTC/USD 0.718 0.687 0.639 0.604
Volume 0.292 0.267 0.252 0.241
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  12 of 42 
To examine the relationship between the user activity and the trading behavior on exchanges 
(here Mt.Gox as a representative), the time series of the trading volume and the exchange rate from 
Mt.Gox are compared to the user activity with different rolling windows over time. There is a strong 
relationship  between  the  user  activity  and  the  exchange  rate when  considering  the  correlation 
coefficients  in Table 2. Although  there  is a positive  relationship of activity  in  the network  to  the 
trading behavior, the correlation to the trade volume is rather low. This indicates that a majority of 
users might not be active in the exchange business and therefore have no relationship to the traded 
volume. Another point is that the volume is not separated into buys and sells; hence, the correlation 
coefficient between the exchange rate and the volume is 0.22. In Figure 6, one can see that peaks in 
the exchange rate are followed by an increase in user activity; thus giving sign for high interest and 
speculative behavior  in  the Bitcoin  economy. The  relationship between user activity and  trading 
behavior  is very  close  to  the  actual  exchange  rate movements,  as  can be  seen by  the  correlation 
coefficients for the 1 day and 10 days rolling window. 
 
Figure 6. User Activity and Trade behavior. 
Table 2. Correlation Matrix (User Activity and Trade Behavior). 
Trade measure 
User Activity (rolling windows) 
1 day    10 days  30 days  100 days 
BTC/USD  0.718  0.687  0.639  0.604 
Volume  0.292  0.267  0.252  0.241 
One can conclude that there is a strong positive relationship between the user activity and the 
trading behavior but a rather  low correlation to the trade volume. The overall user activity  in the 
network increases steadily over time. 
6.1.2. Bitcoin Business Statistics 
The combined analysis of Bitcoin transactions and their associated businesses categories requires 
the classification of the extracted business tags. Since there are 1704 different tags which would need 
a manual lookup, the classification was done on tags that have ten or more transactions. This resulted 
in 383 tags that were classified in 13 different categories as shown in Table 3. 
  
Figure 6. User Activity and Trade behavior.
One can conclude that there is a strong positive relationship between the user activity and the
trading behavior but a rather low correlation to the trade volume. The overall user activity in the
network increases steadily over time.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 13 of 40
6.1.2. Bitcoin Business Statistics
The combined analysis of Bitcoin transactions and their associated businesses categories requires
the classification of the extracted business tags. Since there are 1704 different tags which would need
a manual lookup, the classification was done on tags that have ten or more transactions. This resulted
in 383 tags that were classified in 13 different categories as shown in Table 3.
Table 3. Business Tags.
Category Content Examples # Transactions in %
Gambling Dice & Casino Games SatoshiDice, Betcoins 7,615,051 47.90%
Mining Mining Pools & Services Deepbit, ASICMiner 689,231 4.34%
Exchanges Exchange Platforms Mt.Gox, Bitcoin-24 293,969 1.85%
Wallets Web Wallets and Clients Instawallet, Strongcoin 17,748 0.11%
IT Programming & Hardware Services Free Software Foundation 4515 0.03%
Media News Blogs, Media Channels, News Wikileaks, Archive.org 7563 0.05%
Vendors Selling Goods Room77, Silk Road 2233 0.01%
Donation Charity & other Donations Faucet Donation 30,612 0.19%
Bitcoin Services Sites offering Information & Services Blockexplorer, Bitcoinmonitor 1420 0.01%
Bitcoin OTC Over the Counter (OTC) Trader DPP_, Eleuthria 5054 0.03%
Bitcoin Talk Bitcoin Forum Users Quip, Nikkos 3534 0.02%
Misc. Free BTC Sites & Advertising CoinAd, Hashluck 4123 0.03%
Unknown Not Classified Transactions n.a. 7,223,572 45.44%
Total - - 15,898,625 100%
Overall, 54.56% of all transactions could be categorized. With 47.90%, the largest portion of it
contains gambling services followed by mining and exchanges. Because leaving out business tags with
fewer than 10 transactions, 5151 or 0.032% are not categorized.
To give insights into the major businesses in the Bitcoin economy and how they are distributed
among the categories, statistics over the top 25 businesses were taken. Although 54.56% of transactions
are categorized, the gambling business SatoshiDICE alone comprises 46.9% of them; the mining pool
Deepbit is associated to 4.3% of all transactions; and the exchange platform Mt.Gox comprises around
1.7% of transactions. Since it is clear that these three services incorporate over 52.9% of all transactions,
they are excluded from the first statistics to get a better view and comparison on the other businesses
in the economy.
Figure 7 shows the number of transactions, their value in BTC, and their distribution among
categories (inset) of the top 25 businesses. The statistic comprises around 1.5% (236,747 TXs) of all
transactions after excluding SatoshiDICE, Deepbit, and Mt.Gox. One can see that gambling services (67.4%)
are by far the most active businesses in the economy. Donations are the second largest business group and
account for 12.6% of transactions. When comparing the number of transactions and the associated value
one recognizes that the value in the business category gambling (e.g., BTC Dice, DICEonCRACK, Bit
Elfin) is abnormally low. The opposite is the case for the business category exchanges (e.g., Bitcoin-24,
MPEx), where the value is abnormally high in comparison to the number of transactions.
For comparison reason a similar statistic was conducted with the focus on the transacted value
in BTC. Figure 8 shows a completely different distribution of the top 25 businesses among the categories
when considering the transaction value. The largest business category is exchanges that comprise
48.8% of transacted volume followed by the vendor business with 18.7%.
Especially the vendor Silkroad shows a large trading volume of around 1.23 million BTC in
comparison to 285 executed transactions. In contrast, the gambling businesses transact very small
Bitcoin volumes while a huge amount of transactions are executed. From a business view this makes
sense that exchanges and vendors transact larger volumes because of transaction costs and reasonable
prices for traded goods. On the other hand, risky gambling activities and donations incorporate rather
small volumes per transaction.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 14 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  14 of 42 
 
Figure 7. Top 25 Businesses (# Transactions). 
For comparison reason a similar statistic was conducted with the focus on the transacted value 
in  BTC.  Figure  8  shows  a  completely  different  distribution  of  the  top  25  businesses  among  the 
categories when considering the transaction value. The largest business category is exchanges that 
comprise 48.8% of transacted volume followed by the vendor business with 18.7%. 
 
Figure 8. Top 25 Businesses (Value in BTC). 
Especially  the vendor Silkroad  shows a  large  trading volume of around 1.23 million BTC  in 
comparison  to 285 executed  transactions.  In contrast,  the gambling businesses transact very small 
Bitcoin volumes while a huge amount of transactions are executed. From a business view this makes 
sense that exchanges and vendors transact larger volumes because of transaction costs and reasonable 
prices  for  traded goods. On  the other hand,  risky gambling  activities  and donations  incorporate 
rather small volumes per transaction. 
Figure 7. Top 25 Businesses (# Transactions).
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  14 of 42 
 
Figure 7. Top 25 Businesses (# Transactions). 
For comparison reason a similar statistic was conducted with the focus on the transacted value 
in  BTC.  Figure  8  shows  a  completely  different  distribution  of  the  top  25  businesses  among  the 
categories when considering the transaction value. The largest business category is exchanges that 
comprise 48.8% of transacted volume followed by the vendor business with 18.7%. 
 
Figure 8. Top 25 Businesses (Value in BTC). 
Especially  the vendor Silkroad  shows a  large  trading volume of around 1.23 million BTC  in 
comparison  to 285 executed  transactions.  In contrast,  the gambling businesses transact very small 
Bitcoin volumes while a huge amount of transactions are executed. From a business view this makes 
sense that exchanges and vendors transact larger volumes because of transaction costs and reasonable 
prices  for  traded goods. On  the other hand,  risky gambling  activities  and donations  incorporate 
rather small volumes per transaction. 
Figure 8. Top 25 Businesses (Value in BTC).
This relationship can be seen when computing the ratio of the number of executed transactions
divided by their respective value (T/V ratio). Figure 9 shows the ratio, aggregated for every business
category. As indicated in the top 25 statistics above, the T/V ratio for the entire dataset confirms the
previous result. With a ratio of 25.4, the gambling services carry by far the smallest amount of Bitcoins
per transaction; around four Bitcoins are transferred in one transaction on average. The exchanges
and vendor business have the smallest ratio with 0.5 and 0.1, respectively. Hence, even on a much
larger scale of classified data (~54.56%, exclude n.a.) in comparison to the top 25 businesses (~1.5%),
the relationship between the number of transactions and the value stays quiet stable among the
business categories.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 15 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  15 of 42 
This relationship can be seen when computing the ratio of the number of executed transactions 
divided by their respective value (T/V ratio). Figure 9 shows the ratio, aggregated for every business 
category. As indicated in the top 25 statistics above, the T/V ratio for the entire dataset confirms the 
previous result. With a ratio of 25.4, the gambling services carry by far the smallest amount of Bitcoins 
per transaction; around four Bitcoins are transferred in one transaction on average. The exchanges 
and vendor business have the smallest ratio with 0.5 and 0.1, respectively. Hence, even on a much 
larger scale of classified data (~54.56%, exclude n.a.) in comparison to the top 25 businesses (~1.5%), 
the  relationship between  the number of  transactions  and  the value  stays quiet  stable  among  the 
business categories. 
 
Figure 9. Transaction/Value Ratio. 
To analyze the transaction value distribution more thoroughly, the transacted value in BTC is 
arranged in several bins from the lowest transacted value (0.00000001 BTC) to the largest transacted 
value (500,000 BTC). The business activity in each range is measured by the number of transactions 
(relationships). A  transaction  can  incorporate  several  output  relationships with  different  values; 
hence,  the number of  relationships was  taken  to  cover  the  entire  spectrum of  transacted values.   
The business categories were ranked according to their portion of relationships within the range, and 
the top three businesses are presented in Table 4. The first eight bins, which include the transaction 
values from 0.00000001 to 1.0 BTC, cover around 63% of all relationships. 
Table 4. Transaction Value Distribution. 
Transaction Value [BTC] 
#TXs  % 
Top 3 Business Categories
low  high  1st 2nd 3rd  n.a.
0.00000001  0.00001  2,546,657  6.8  Gambling  60.0%  Media News  3.3%  Misc.  3.2%  33.5% 
0.00001  0.0050  3,547,994  9.5  Gambling  43.5%  Misc.  5.7%  Media News  2.9%  47.9% 
0.0050  0.0100  1,056,999  2.8  Gambling  77.4%  Exchanges  0.7%  Misc.  0.3%  21.6% 
0.0100  0.0110  2,187,115  5.8  Gambling  57.0%  Mining  4.0%  Exchanges  1.2%  37.8% 
0.0110  0.0199  1,928,654  5.1  Gambling  62.2%  Mining  0.8%  Donation  0.6%  36.5% 
0.0199  0.0505  3,133,778  8.4  Gambling  62.5%  Mining  3.4%  Exchanges  0.8%  33.3% 
0.0505  0.1001  2,387,548  6.4  Gambling  59.2%  Mining  3.8%  Exchanges  0.8%  36.2% 
0.1001  1.0000  7,160,737  19.1  Gambling  55.7%  Mining  4.4%  Exchanges  1.4%  38.5% 
1.0000  2.0008  2,645,839  7.1  Gambling  34.7%  Mining  5.9%  Exchanges  1.6%  57.9% 
2.0008  10.000  3,632,013  9.7  Gambling  30.4%  Mining  5.1%  Exchanges  2.3%  62.2% 
10.00  50.590  3,759,223  10.0  Gambling  12.7%  Mining  9.8%  Exchanges  2.8%  74.6% 
50.59  100.09  703,960  1.9  Mining  11.2%  Gambling  6.1%  Exchanges  5.6%  77.1% 
100.09  499.06  622,339  1.7  Exchanges  7.0%  Gambling  5.3%  Mining  4.7%  83.0% 
499.06  1,000.0  197,254  0.5  Exchanges  2.8%  Gambling  1.3%  Mining  0.3%  95.6% 
1,000.0  10,009  134,783  0.4  Exchanges  1.2%  Gambling  0.5%  Vendors  0.1%  98.1% 
10,009  100,000  20,353  0.1  Exchanges  0.3%  Vendors  0.05%  Wallets  0.04%  99.7% 
100,000  500,000  206  0.001  Exchanges  36.4%  Vendors  1.9%  ‐  ‐  61.7% 
Figure 9. Transaction/Value Ratio.
To analyze the transaction value distribution more thoroughly, the transacted value in BTC is
arranged in several bins from the lowest transacted value (0.00000001 BTC) to the largest transacted
value (500,000 BTC). The business activity in each range is measured by the number of transactions
(relationships). A transaction can incorporate several output relationships with different values; hence,
the number of relationships was taken to cover the entire spectrum of transacted values. The business
categories were ranked according to their portion of relationships within the range, and the top three
businesses are presented in Table 4. The first eight bins, which include the transaction values from
0.00000001 to 1.0 BTC, cover around 63% of all relationships.
Table 4. Transaction Value Distribution.
Transaction Value [BTC]
#TXs %
Top 3 Business Categories
Low High 1st 2nd 3rd n.a.
0.00000001 0.00001 2,546,657 6.8 Gambling 60.0% Media
News 3.3% Misc. 3.2% 33.5%
0.00001 0.0050 3,547,994 9.5 Gambling 43.5% Misc. 5.7% Media
News 2.9% 47.9%
0.0050 0.0100 1,056,999 2.8 Gambling 77.4% Exchanges 0.7% Misc. 0.3% 21.6%
0.0100 0.0110 2,187,115 5.8 Gambling 57.0% Mining 4.0% Exchanges 1.2% 37.8%
0.0110 0.0199 1,928,654 5.1 Gambling 62.2% Mining 0.8% Donation 0.6% 36.5%
0.0199 0.0505 3,133,778 8.4 Gambling 62.5% Mining 3.4% Exchanges 0.8% 33.3%
0.0505 0.1001 2,387,548 6.4 Gambling 59.2% Mining 3.8% Exchanges 0.8% 36.2%
0.1001 1.0000 7,160,737 19.1 Gambling 55.7% Mining 4.4% Exchanges 1.4% 38.5%
1.0000 2.0008 2,645,839 7.1 Gambling 34.7% Mining 5.9% Exchanges 1.6% 57.9%
2.0008 10.000 3,632,013 9.7 Gambling 30.4% Mining 5.1% Exchanges 2.3% 62.2%
10.00 50.590 3,759,223 10.0 Gambling 12.7% Mining 9.8% Exchanges 2.8% 74.6%
50.59 100.09 703,960 1.9 Mining 11.2% Gambling 6.1% Exchanges 5.6% 77.1%
100.09 499.06 622,339 1.7 Exchanges 7.0% Gambling 5.3% Mining 4.7% 83.0%
499.06 1,000.0 197,254 0.5 Exchanges 2.8% Gambling 1.3% Mining 0.3% 95.6%
1,000.0 10,009 134,783 0.4 Exchanges 1.2% Gambling 0.5% Vendors 0.1% 98.1%
10,009 100,000 20,353 0.1 Exchanges 0.3% Vendors 0.05% Wallets 0.04% 99.7%
100,000 500,000 206 0.001 Exchanges 36.4% Vendors 1.9% - - 61.7%
As indicated above, the gambling businesses encompass most of the transactions (relationships)
in the network, but with a decreasing trend in higher value regions. In ranges with transacted values
above 50 BTC, the major business switches to mining and above 100 BTC to exchanges. An interesting
fact is that gambling is the second major business in the range from 50 to 10,000 BTC. The vendors
appear at the very end of the range as second major business, which is not surprising when considering
the large volumes traded on Silkroad. Other business categories such as gambling, mining, and
exchanges are driven by SatoshiDICE, Deepbit, and Mt.Gox, respectively. One needs to be aware of
the n.a. column in the table that states what percentage of transactions (relationships) within a range
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 16 of 40
are not associated to a business category. Although this table gives a good indication on how business
categories are distributed within different value ranges, the numbers might change due to increased
tagged services in the Bitcoin economy.
In the next statistic the composite of business categories over time are shown. Figure 10 displays
the composition in terms of the number of transactions aggregated per month. For comparison reasons,
the actual numbers of transactions executed per month (as sum over all business categories; but only
tagged transactions, ~1.7%) are inserted as an indicator for network activity. The Bitcoin Talk users
were the first business category that could be associated with transactions in April 2010. Although they
make up 100% of all transactions, the network activity measured by number of transactions is very
low. This group of users can be seen as the supporter of the Bitcoin economy that actively exchange
information and discuss several issues regarding Bitcoins on the known forum [45]. Hence, it is not
surprising that they were among the first active participants. One can see that the business category
donation became more active over time. This fact can be attributed to services such as the Faucet
Donation, which donate small amounts of Bitcoins to attract more users to the economy. In the time
from June to December 2010 more and more businesses were attracted to the Bitcoin economy such as
Media News, Bitcoin Services, Mining, provider of IT services as well as miscellaneous businesses.
In the beginning of the year 2011 exchange platforms such as Mt.Gox and Bitcoin-24 entering the
economy. In comparison to other business categories, the exchanges can be attributed to a rather small
number of transactions over time.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  17 of 42 
 
Figure 10. Composite of Businesses over Time (in Terms of Number of Transactions, #TXs). 
For the complete picture the composite of business categories over time in terms of the transacted 
value in BTC is shown in Figure 11. The first thing that can easily be recognized in comparison to the 
previous  statistic  is  the  development  of  the  donation  business.  In  the  early  stage  of  the  Bitcoin 
economy  the  transacted value  in  the network  can be mainly attributed  to early adopters  such as 
Bitcoin Talk users, media news and miscellaneous services. To attract more users in the early stage, 
Bitcoins were donated to potential interest parties; thus, the donation business makes up around 60% 
of transaction volume in the time from June to September 2010. Then the attributed value decreases 
in comparison to other emerging businesses such as IT, media news, exchanges, and vendors. The 
start (April 2011) of the Silkroad vendor, which mainly drives the vendor business according to the 
transacted  value  in  this  statistic,  incorporates  large  portions  of  the  transacted  Bitcoins.  The 
tremendous increase of transacted value in the case of the Silkroad vendor is mainly explained by 
transactions related to the address “1DkyBEKt…”, which is believed to be associated with Silk Road. 
In the active time of this address (January–September 2012) it received large volumes of Bitcoins until 
August 2012; subsequently, Bitcoins were aggregated and withdrawn from this address. One can see 
that  the  suspicious  address  associated  to  the  vendor  Silkroad  dominates  the  business  category 
vendors within the network. Meiklejohn, et al. [8] analyzed this particular situation more thoroughly 
and  came  to a  similar  conclusion, although  they  incorporate different businesses  in  their vendor 
category. During the speculation phase, exchange platforms transact huge volumes of Bitcoins and 
were attributable for around 80% to 95% of transacted value. There  is also a plunge of transacted 
value in the gambling business, while at the same time the exchange business surged. An explanation 
might be that users shift Bitcoins from the gambling businesses to exchange platforms in anticipation 
of higher rewards due to trading activities against fiat currencies. 
Figure 10. Composite of Businesses over Time (in Terms of Number of Transactions, #TXs).
In February 2011 the well-known vendor Silkroad started its business. The following media
attention about the goods that were sold on this platform attracted more users and subsequently
the network activity increased. Support of independent and liberal media and news platforms and
the donation via Bitcoins made up a large portion of transactions in the first half of 2011. With the
emergence of online or web wallets to hold Bitcoins, more users could then easily store and transact
their Bitcoins in a convenient way; thus increasing activity and transactions related to the web wallet
business. In this statistic the category is mainly driven by one of the first services called Instawallet
that launches its business in April 2011. The most active time for wallet services were in the time from
August 2011 to February 2012, compared to other business categories. The introduction of Bitcoin
games in mid-2012, especially dice games such as SatoshiDICE and BTC Dice, resulted in an inflation
of executed transactions in the Bitcoin economy. The gambling category makes up the largest portion
of transactions in the network since its introduction. Between October 2012 and March 2013, the
speculation on exchange rate movements surged and one can see that Bitcoin OTC trader become very
active in this phase. The activity of the mining business also increased, since it is more profitable to
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 17 of 40
donate computing power in times where miners can exchange their Bitcoins at higher exchange rates
into fiat currencies.
Overall, one can see a high fluctuation in the activity of different business categories. Again, these
results can just be seen as an indicator because conclusions about transactions that do not have a business
tag cannot be made. Comparing the results in case of the three major businesses in the Bitcoin economy
gambling, exchanges, and mining with their larger representatives SatoshiDICE, Mt.Gox, and Deepbit,
respectively, there is no significant correlation or even a negative correlation. Hence, the development of
a business category over time is not representative for particular services related to this category.
For the complete picture the composite of business categories over time in terms of the transacted
value in BTC is shown in Figure 11. The first thing that can easily be recognized in comparison to the
previous statistic is the development of the donation business. In the early stage of the Bitcoin economy
the transacted value in the network can be mainly attributed to early adopters such as Bitcoin Talk
users, media news and miscellaneous services. To attract more users in the early stage, Bitcoins were
donated to potential interest parties; thus, the donation business makes up around 60% of transaction
volume in the time from June to September 2010. Then the attributed value decreases in comparison to
other emerging businesses such as IT, media news, exchanges, and vendors. The start (April 2011) of
the Silkroad vendor, which mainly drives the vendor business according to the transacted value in this
statistic, incorporates large portions of the transacted Bitcoins. The tremendous increase of transacted
value in the case of the Silkroad vendor is mainly explained by transactions related to the address
“1DkyBEKt . . . ”, which is believed to be associated with Silk Road. In the active time of this address
(January–September 2012) it received large volumes of Bitcoins until August 2012; subsequently, Bitcoins
were aggregated and withdrawn from this address. One can see that the suspicious address associated to
the vendor Silkroad dominates the business category vendors within the network. Meiklejohn, et al. [8]
analyzed this particular situation more thoroughly and came to a similar conclusion, although they
incorporate different businesses in their vendor category. During the speculation phase, exchange
platforms transact huge volumes of Bitcoins and were attributable for around 80% to 95% of transacted
value. There is also a plunge of transacted value in the gambling business, while at the same time
the exchange business surged. An explanation might be that users shift Bitcoins from the gambling
businesses to exchange platforms in anticipation of higher rewards due to trading activities against
fiat currencies.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  18 of 42 
 
Figure 11. Composite of Businesses over Time (Value in BTC). 
6.1.3. Geography of the Bitcoin Economy 
Aggregations on the country and regional level are applied to get insight into the geographic 
distribution of the Bitcoin economy. The geo‐location information is related to the IP address that can 
be  linked  to  an  executed  transaction  in  the  Bitcoin  network.  The  extracted  IP  addresses  from 
Blockchain.info  result  in  40,329  distinct  geo‐locations.  Transactions  that  are  executed  via  the 
Blockchain.info node are tagged with 127.0.0.1 (i.e., the non‐unique localhost address), around 10.7% 
of all transactions. There are also transactions that could not be related to an IP address and are tagged 
with  0.0.0.0,  around  16.6% of  all  transactions. The  following  statistics  are based on  the  72.4% of 
transactions that could be linked to an IP address. Furthermore, one has to exclude IP addresses that 
are associated to anonymous services such as Tor, proxy, and VPN servers. With the scraped IPs from 
anonymous services, around 1.6% of transactions could be linked to this kind of services. 
Figure 12 shows the number of transactions and the associated value in BTC per country. One 
can clearly recognize that the U.S. and German market are by far the most active, followed by France, 
Russia,  and  Canada  etc.  The  U.S. market  alone  incorporates  around  38.4%  of  transactions  and 
carrying around 36.7% of the Bitcoin volume in the economy. 
 
Figure 12. Number of Transactions and Value in BTC per Country. 
Figure 11. Composite of Businesses over Time (Value in BTC).
6.1.3. Geography of the Bitcoin Economy
Aggregations on the country and regional level are applied to get insight into the geographic
distribution of the Bitcoin economy. The geo-location information is related to the IP address
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 18 of 40
that can be linked to an executed transaction in the Bitcoin network. The extracted IP addresses
from Blockchain.info result in 40,329 distinct geo-locations. Transactions that are executed via the
Blockchain.info node are tagged with 127.0.0.1 (i.e., the non-unique localhost address), around 10.7%
of all transactions. There are also transactions that could not be related to an IP address and are
tagged with 0.0.0.0, around 16.6% of all transactions. The following statistics are based on the 72.4% of
transactions that could be linked to an IP address. Furthermore, one has to exclude IP addresses that
are associated to anonymous services such as Tor, proxy, and VPN servers. With the scraped IPs from
anonymous services, around 1.6% of transactions could be linked to this kind of services.
Figure 12 shows the number of transactions and the associated value in BTC per country. One can
clearly recognize that the U.S. and German market are by far the most active, followed by France,
Russia, and Canada etc. The U.S. market alone incorporates around 38.4% of transactions and carrying
around 36.7% of the Bitcoin volume in the economy.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  18 of 42 
 
Figure 11. Composite of Businesses over Time (Value in BTC). 
6.1.3. Geography of the Bitcoin Economy 
Aggregations on the country and regional level are applied to get insight into the geographic 
distribution of the Bitcoin economy. The geo‐location information is related to the IP address that can 
be  linked  to  an  executed  transaction  in  the  Bitcoin  network.  The  extracted  IP  addresses  from 
Blockchain.info  result  in  40,329  distinct  geo‐locations.  Transactions  that  are  executed  via  the 
Blockchain.info node are tagged with 127.0.0.1 (i.e., the non‐unique localhost address), around 10.7% 
of all transactions. There are also transactions that could not be related to an IP address and are tagged 
with  0.0.0.0,  around  16.6% of  all  transactions. The  following  statistics  are based on  the  72.4% of 
transactions that could be linked to an IP address. Furthermore, one has to exclude IP addresses that 
are associated to anonymous services such as Tor, proxy, and VPN servers. With the scraped IPs from 
anonymous services, around 1.6% of transactions could be linked to this kind of services. 
Figure 12 shows the number of transactions and the associated value in BTC per country. One 
can clearly recognize that the U.S. and German market are by far the most active, followed by France, 
Russia,  and  Canada  etc.  The  U.S. market  alone  incorporates  around  38.4%  of  transactions  and 
carrying around 36.7% of the Bitcoin volume in the economy. 
 
Figure 12. Number of Transactions and Value in BTC per Country. Figure 12. Number of Transactions and Value in BTC per Country.
Since there is a high correlation of 0.996 between the number of transactions and the value in BTC
on the country level aggregation, the focus is on the value in BTC for measuring the activity of Bitcoin
users among different countries. The first global representation of the Bitcoin network in Figure 13
shows the geo-located IP nodes that were used to execute transactions until the 10th April 2013.
There is a high amount of IP nodes in Europe and the U.S. When considering areas with a higher
concentration such as the east coast of China, Australia, Brazil, the southern area of Canada and
Scandinavia, or western Russia, there might be a positive relationship between well-developed
countries with a good infrastructure and the usage of Bitcoins.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  19 of 42 
Since there is a high correlation of 0.996 between the number of transactions and the value in 
BTC on the country level aggregation, the focus is on the value in BTC for measuring the activity of 
Bitcoin users among different  countries. The  first global  representation of  the Bitcoin network  in 
Figure 13 shows the geo‐located IP nodes that were used to execute transactions until the 10th April 
2013. There is a high amount of IP nodes in Europe and the U.S. When considering areas with a higher 
concentration such as  the east coast of China, Australia, Brazil,  the southern area of Canada and 
Scandinavia,  or western  Russia,  there might  be  a  positive  relationship  between well‐developed 
countries with a good infrastructure and the usage of Bitcoins. 
 
Figure 13. Global Distribution of Geo‐located Internet Protocol (IP) Nodes. 
Figure 14 shows the transaction volume in BTC per country on a global scale with a range from 
1000 BTC  to around 375 million BTC. As  indicated above, well‐developed countries with a good 
Internet  infrastructure are dominant  in the Bitcoin economy. Germany and  the U.S. are  the major 
markets with trading volumes of around 266 million BTC and 375 million BTC, respectively. One can 
also see that the emerging markets such as Russia, Brazil, or China becoming quite active in the economy. 
 
Figure 14. Transaction Volume in BTC (in Thousands) per Country. 
The growth of particular countries is shown in Figure 15 as examples of network emergence in 
five developed markets  (U.S., Germany, Australia, France, and Canada) and  five growth markets 
(China, Russia, India, Brazil, and Thailand). There is an almost linear growth in the number of used 
IP nodes within the network. Interesting is the rather small number of IP nodes in countries such as 
Russia (480 nodes) and the respective Bitcoin volume of around 45.7 million BTC in comparison to 
countries such as Canada (1722 nodes) with a transacted volume of 37.5 million BTC. 
Figure 13. Global Distribution of Geo-located Internet Protocol (IP) Nodes.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 19 of 40
Figure 14 shows the transaction volume in BTC per country on a global scale with a range from
1000 BTC to around 375 million BTC. As indicated above, well-developed countries with a good Internet
infrastructure are dominant in the Bitcoin economy. Germany and the U.S. are the major markets with
trading volumes of around 266 million BTC and 375 million BTC, respectively. One can also see that
the emerging markets such as Russia, Brazil, or China becoming quite active in the economy.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  19 of 42 
Since there is a high correlation of 0.996 between the number of transactions and the value in 
BTC on the country level aggregation, the focus is on the value in BTC for measuring the activity of 
Bitcoin users among different  countries. The  first global  representation of  the Bitcoin network  in 
Figure 13 shows the geo‐located IP nodes that were used to execute transactions until the 10th April 
2013. There is a high amount of IP nodes in Europe and the U.S. When considering areas with a higher 
concentration such as  the east coast of China, Australia, Brazil,  the southern area of Canada and 
Scandinavia,  or western  Russia,  there might  be  a  positive  relationship  between well‐developed 
countries with a good infrastructure and the usage of Bitcoins. 
 
Figure 13. Global Distribution of Geo‐located Internet Protocol (IP) Nodes. 
Figure 14 shows the transaction volume in BTC per country on a global scale with a range from 
1000 BTC  to around 375 million BTC. As  indicated above, well‐developed countries with a good 
Internet  infrastructure are dominant  in the Bitcoin economy. Germany and  the U.S. are  the major 
markets with trading volumes of around 266 million BTC and 375 million BTC, respectively. One can 
also see that the emerging markets such as Russia, Brazil, or China becoming quite active in the economy. 
 
Figure 14. Transaction Volume in BTC (in Thousands) per Country. 
The growth of particular countries is shown in Figure 15 as examples of network emergence in 
five developed markets  (U.S., Germany, Australia, France, and Canada) and  five growth markets 
(China, Russia, India, Brazil, and Thailand). There is an almost linear growth in the number of used 
IP nodes within the network. Interesting is the rather small number of IP nodes in countries such as 
Russia (480 nodes) and the respective Bitcoin volume of around 45.7 million BTC in comparison to 
countries such as Canada (1722 nodes) with a transacted volume of 37.5 million BTC. 
Figure 14. Transaction Volume in BTC (in Thousands) per Country.
The growth of particular countries is shown in Figure 15 as examples of network emergence
in five developed markets (U.S., Germany, Australia, France, and Canada) and five growth markets
(China, Russia, India, Brazil, and Thailand). There is an almost linear growth in the number of used
IP nodes within the network. Interesting is the rather small number of IP nodes in countries such as
Russia (480 nodes) and the respective Bitcoin volume of around 45.7 million BTC in comparison to
countries such as Canada (1722 nodes) with a transacted volume of 37.5 million BTC.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  20 of 42 
 
Figure 15. Geographic Network Emergence over Time for Particular Countries. 
The  composite of particular developed  countries  in  the Bitcoin network  is measured by  the 
transaction volume over time and depicted in Figure 16. One can see that the U.S. was the first country 
with transactions that could be linked to IP nodes in the network. In this early stage of the Bitcoin 
economy Germany and especially Australia became more active, although  the overall  transaction 
volume  stays  at  lower  levels.  Since more  developed  countries  such  as Canada,  France,  and  the 
Netherlands could be related  to  transactions  in  the network,  the geographic contribution of  these 
countries seems to be stable over time (February 2012–April 2013). Even the tremendous increase in 
transaction volume with a peak of around 270 million BTC in September 2012 had no influence on 
the composite of countries in that time frame. This indicates that these countries and their respective 
users behave  in the same way in the Bitcoin economy (i.e., all countries  increased their transacted 
volume and lowered it within that particular time frame). 
 
Figure 16. Composite of Developed Countries over Time (Value in BTC). 
Figure 17 shows the same statistics for three emerging markets and three countries that were hit 
by the European financial crisis. China is the first of the emerging countries that could be linked to 
transactions in the network. 
Figure 15. Geographic Network Emergence over Time for Particular Countries.
The composite of particular developed countries in the Bitcoin network is measured by the
transaction volume over time and depicted in Figure 16. One can see that the U.S. was the first
country with transactions that could be linked to IP nodes in the network. In this early stage of
the Bitcoin economy Germany and especially Australia became more active, although the overall
transaction volume stays at lower levels. Since more developed countries such as Canada, France, and
the Netherlands could be related to transactions in the network, the geographic contribution of these
countries seems to be stable over time (February 2012–April 2013). Even the tremendous increase in
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 20 of 40
transaction volume with a peak of around 270 million BTC in September 2012 had no influence on the
composite of countries in that time frame. This indicates that these countries and their respective users
behave in the same way in the Bitcoin economy (i.e., all countries increased their transacted volume
and lowered it within that particular time frame).
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  20 of 42 
 
Figure 15. Geographic Network Emergence over Time for Particular Countries. 
The  composite of particular developed  countries  in  the Bitcoin network  is measured by  the 
transaction volume over time and depicted in Figure 16. One can see that the U.S. was the first country 
with transactions that could be linked to IP nodes in the network. In this early stage of the Bitcoin 
economy Germany and especially Australia became more active, although  the overall  transaction 
volume  stays  at  lower  levels.  Since more  developed  countries  such  as Canada,  France,  and  the 
Netherlands could be related  to  transactions  in  the network,  the geographic contribution of  these 
countries seems to be stable over time (February 2012–April 2013). Even the tremendous increase in 
transaction volume with a peak of around 270 million BTC in September 2012 had no influence on 
the composite of countries in that time frame. This indicates that these countries and their respective 
users behave  in the same way in the Bitcoin economy (i.e., all countries  increased their transacted 
volume and lowered it within that particular time frame). 
 
Figure 16. Composite of Developed Countries over Time (Value in BTC). 
Figure 17 shows the same statistics for three emerging markets and three countries that were hit 
by the European financial crisis. China is the first of the emerging countries that could be linked to 
transactions in the network. 
Figure 16. Composite of Developed Countries over Time (Value in BTC).
Figure 17 shows the same statistics for three emerging markets and three countries that were hit
by the European financial crisis. China is the first of the emerging countries that could be linked to
transactions in the network.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  21 of 42 
 
Figure 17. Composite of Emerging Countries over Time (Value in BTC). 
With the linkage of transactions executed in Russia starting in January 2012, Russia becomes the 
major actor among emerging markets. As one could see in the previous statistics for the developed 
countries, the fluctuations in contribution to the Bitcoin economy are quite stable and not influenced 
by the transacted volume. The huge impact of the Russian market and the rather low influence from 
China when considering the transacted volume can be explained by the business distribution of these 
countries that are shown in the following statistics. 
Although just a small fraction of the volume could be linked to business categories, the statistics 
give a good insight in the Bitcoin economy of particular countries. When looking at the European 
countries Germany, Sweden, and France (Figure 18), one can see that the distribution of businesses 
is almost the same in these countries with a focus on the mining business with around 56%. The U.S. 
Bitcoin economy is different from the European since the largest transaction volume is linked to the 
gambling business with around 66% and just 19% can be associated to mining activities. Furthermore, 
the  trading  activities  on  exchanges  and  with  vendors  are  higher  than  in  developed  European 
countries.  There  is  a  sign  that  the  business  distribution  differs  between  continents  and  not  just 
between certain countries. When considering the North America region with the U.S. and Canada, 
where  both  have  a  common  business  distribution  as  it  can  be  seen  for  the  northern  European 
countries. 
Figure 17. Composite of Emerging Countries over Time (Value in BTC).
With the linkage of transactions executed in Russia starting in January 2012, Russia becomes the
major actor among emerging markets. As one could see in the previous statistics for the developed
countries, the fluctuations in contribution to the Bitcoin economy are quite stable and not influenced
by the transacted volume. The huge impact of the Russian market and the rather low influence from
China when considering the transacted volume can be explained by the business distribution of these
countries that are shown in the following statistics.
Although just a small fraction of the volume could be linked to business categories, the statistics
give a good insight in the Bitcoin economy of particular countries. When looking at the European
countries Germany, Sweden, and France (Figure 18), one can see that the distribution of businesses is
almost the same in these countries with a focus on the mining business with around 56%. The U.S.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 21 of 40
Bitcoin economy is different from the European since the largest transaction volume is linked to the
gambling business with around 66% and just 19% can be associated to mining activities. Furthermore,
the trading activities on exchanges and with vendors are higher than in developed European countries.
There is a sign that the business distribution differs between continents and not just between certain
countries. When considering the North America region with the U.S. and Canada, where both have
a common business distribution as it can be seen for the northern European countries.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  22 of 42 
 
Figure 18. Transaction Volume in BTC per Business Category in Developed Countries. 
The same statistics for the emerging markets (Figure 19) show much different business distributions 
among the countries. Russia has almost the same distribution like the northern European countries, 
with  a  focus  on mining  businesses with  around  57%,  followed  by  the  gambling  and  exchanges 
business with around 34% and 6%, respectively. A complete different business distribution can be 
seen for the Chinese market with a strong focus on the gambling sector with around 87% and just a 
small fraction is attributed to the mining, vendors, and exchanges business. This is not uncommon 
since  it  is well  known  that  China  is  one  of  the  biggest  gambling markets  globally.  The  small 
contribution of transaction volume to the emerging markets volume over time shown in Figure 17 
can be explained by  this distribution, because gambling businesses  transact very  low volumes of 
Bitcoins  compared  to  the  mining  and  exchange  businesses.  In  contrast  to  northern  European 
countries, Spain has a higher share in the exchanges business with 9%. This fact can be attributed to 
the economic crisis in Europe and the higher interest in alternative investments as safe haven. Further 
investigation on the relationship between economic distressed countries and the evolvement of the 
Bitcoin economy in this particular countries is an interesting research topic but out of scope in this 
work. 
The statistic in Figure 20 shows the Top 30 regions according to the transaction volume and the 
distribution of the three major businesses in the Bitcoin economy in this region. One can see that U.S. 
regions such as Texas, California, Virginia, and New York dominate the statistic. The business in the 
U.S.  regions  is mainly  gambling with  slight  differences  in  the  distribution  for  the mining  and 
exchanges business;  for example, California has a  larger portion of mining businesses  (21%)  than 
Texas (13%) and less than the New York region (32%). As indicated by the statistics on country level, 
Germany incorporates a large portion of the mining business, especially in Bayern (81%) and Berlin 
(78%). Similar results can be seen for the regions in Sweden, Netherlands, and Russia that show the 
same characteristic  in  the business distribution as on  the country  level. Hence, even on a smaller 
aggregation level the overall business distribution is stable for the three major businesses. 
Figure 18. Transaction Volume in BTC per Business Category in Developed Countries.
The same statistics for the emerging markets (Figure 19) show much different business
distributions among the countries. Russia has almost the same distribution like the northern European
countries, with a focus on mining businesses with around 57%, followed by the gambling and
exchanges business with around 34% and 6%, respectively. A complete different business distribution
can be seen for the Chinese market with a strong focus on the gambling sector with around 87%
and just a small fraction is attributed to the mining, vendors, and exchanges business. This is not
uncommon since it is well known that China is one of the biggest gambling markets globally. The small
contribution of transaction volume to the emerging markets volume over time shown in Figure 17 can
be explained by this distribution, because gambling businesses transact very low volumes of Bitcoins
compared to the mining and exchange businesses. In contrast to northern European countries, Spain
has a higher share in the exchanges business with 9%. This fact can be attributed to the economic crisis
in Europe and the higher interest in alternative investments as safe haven. Further investigation on the
relationship between economic distressed countries and the evolvement of the Bitcoin economy in this
particular countries is an interesting research topic but out of scope in this work.
The statistic in Figure 20 shows the Top 30 regions according to the transaction volume and the
distribution of the three major businesses in the Bitcoin economy in this region. One can see that
U.S. regions such as Texas, California, Virginia, and New York dominate the statistic. The business
in the U.S. regions is mainly gambling with slight differences in the distribution for the mining and
exchanges business; for example, California has a larger portion of mining businesses (21%) than
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 22 of 40
Texas (13%) and less than the New York region (32%). As indicated by the statistics on country level,
Germany incorporates a large portion of the mining business, especially in Bayern (81%) and Berlin
(78%). Similar results can be seen for the regions in Sweden, Netherlands, and Russia that show the
same characteristic in the business distribution as on the country level. Hence, even on a smaller
aggregation level the overall business distribution is stable for the three major businesses.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  23 of 42 
 
Figure 19. Transaction Volume in BTC per Business Category in Emerging Countries.   
 
Figure 20. Transaction Volume in BTC and Business Distribution for Top 30 Regions. 
Figure 19. Transaction Volume in BTC per Business Category in Emerging Countries.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  23 of 42 
 
Figure 19. Transaction Volume in BTC per Business Category in Emerging Countries.   
 
Figure 20. Transaction Volume in BTC and Business Distribution for Top 30 Regions. Figure 20. Transaction Volume in BTC and Business Distribution for Top 30 Regions.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 23 of 40
6.2. Network Analysis
In the following section, network metrics will be applied for several aggregations of time, business,
and country. The main objective is to investigate the structure of the Bitcoin network, identify major
hubs, brokers, clusters, and find evidence for the small world phenomenon.
6.2.1. Degree Distribution and Power Law of the Bitcoin Network
The degree distribution captures the structure of the network in terms of the individual
connectivity and is expected to follow a power law distribution since the Bitcoin network is considered
as real world network such as the World Wide Web or social networks. To conduct the analysis
within NetworkX the package “powerlaw” is required to calculate the slope coefficient a, and plot the
probability density function (PDF) and complementary cumulative distribution function (CCDF) [46].
With this analysis one can examine how the power law evolves over time, differs between particular
businesses or countries. A power law distribution ( P pkq „ k´a ) with a slope coefficient of 2 ď a ď 3
indicates a scale-free network, which is often found in real world networks.
Figure 21 shows the development of the PDF and CCDF distribution and the associated power
law fit over time. The PDF requires logarithmic binning (default in “powerlaw” package) to account
for the heavy tail in the distribution and a smooth visualization. The CCDF distribution does not use
binning; thus, all information of the distribution is included [46]. The plot from the Bitcoin network in
2010 shows a good fit by the power law to the PDF as well as the CCDF distribution. With increasing
activity in the network in 2011 the slope α converges to a theoretically almost ideal value of 2.569,
although the power law does not show a good fit for the CCDF distribution. This effect reduces over
time with more user activity in the network and trade or exchange patterns. The development of the
slope coefficient α for several snapshots over time is depicted in Figure 22.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  24 of 42 
6.2. Network Analysis 
In  the  following  section,  network metrics will  be  applied  for  several  aggregations  of  time, 
business,  and  country. The main  objective  is  to  investigate  the  structure  of  the Bitcoin network, 
identify major hubs, brokers, clusters, and find evidence for the small world phenomenon. 
6.2.1. Degree Distribution and Power Law of the Bitcoin Network   
The  degree  distribution  captures  the  structure  of  the  network  in  terms  of  the  individual 
connectivity  and  is  expected  to  follow  a  power  law  distribution  since  the  Bitcoin  network  is 
considered as real world network such as the World Wide Web or social networks. To conduct the 
analysis within NetworkX the package “powerlaw” is required to calculate the slope coefficient  , 
and plot the probability density function (PDF) and complementary cumulative distribution function 
(CCDF)  [46]. With  this  analysis  one  can  examine how  the power  law  evolves  over  time, differs 
between particular  businesses  or  countries. A power  law distribution  ( 	~	 	) with  a  slope 
coefficient of  2 3  indicates a scale‐free network, which is often found in real world networks. 
Figure  21.  Degree  Distribution  (probability  density  function  (PDF),  complementary  cumulative 
distribution function (CCDF)) over Time. 
Figure 21 shows the development of the PDF and CCDF distribution and the associated power 
law fit over time. The PDF requires logarithmic binning (default in “powerlaw” package) to account 
for the heavy tail in the distribution and a smooth visualization. The CCDF distribution does not use 
binning; thus, all information of the distribution is included [46]. The plot from the Bitcoin network 
in  2010  shows  a  good  fit  by  the power  law  to  the PDF  as well  as  the CCDF distribution. With 
increasing activity in the network in 2011 the slope α converges to a theoretically almost ideal value 
of 2.569, although  the power  law does not show a good  fit  for  the CCDF distribution. This effect 
reduces  over  time with more  user  activity  in  the  network  and  trade  or  exchange  patterns.  The 
development of the slope coefficient α for several snapshots over time is depicted in Figure 22. 
Figure 21. Degree Distribution (probability density function (PDF), complementary cumulative
distribution function (CCDF)) over Time.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 24 of 40Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  25 of 42 
 
Figure 22. Development of Power Law Fit α over Time. 
The same statistic for the business categories: gambling, exchanges, and mining indicate strong 
heavy tails when considering only particular business categories. As mentioned earlier, the categories 
are mainly driven  by  SatoshiDice  (gambling), Mt.Gox  (exchanges),  and Deepbit  (mining). These 
nodes have abnormal high degrees and lead therefore to the strong heavy tails. When looking at the 
plot (Businesses) in Figure 23 for the Bitcoin economy excluding the three major businesses one can 
see a good power law fit to the PDF and CCDF distribution. This might be explained by characteristics 
that are close to a real world economy or other social networks with various types of businesses and 
common  behaviors  by  the  participants. However,  the  slope  coefficient  α  for  different  business 
categories in Figure 24 indicates the existence of a scale‐free network for all business categories except 
the wallets business. Despite the strong heavy tails, the businesses exchanges and mining have a very 
good slope coefficient α with 2.495 and 2.517, respectively. 
 
 
Figure 23. Degree Distribution (PDF, CCDF) for different Business Categories. 
Figure 22. Development of Power Law Fit α over Time.
The same statistic for the business categories: gambling, exchanges, and mining indicate strong
heavy tails when considering only particular business categories. As mentioned earlier, the categories
are mainly driven by SatoshiDice (gambling), Mt.Gox (exchanges), and Deepbit (mining). These nodes
have abnormal high degrees and lead therefore to the strong heavy tails. When looking at the plot
(Businesses) in Figure 23 for the Bitcoin economy excluding the three major businesses one can see
a good power law fit to the PDF and CCDF distribution. This might be explained by characteristics
that are close to a real world economy or other social networks with various types of businesses
and common behaviors by the participants. However, the slope coefficient α for different business
categories in Figure 24 indicates the existence of a scale-free network for all business categories except
the wallets business. Despite the strong heavy tails, the businesses exchanges and mining have a very
good slope coefficient α with 2.495 and 2.517, respectively.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  25 of 42 
 
Figure 22. Development of Power Law Fit α over Time. 
The same statistic for the business categories: gambling, exchanges, and mining indicate strong 
heavy tails when considering only particular business categories. As mentioned earlier, the categories 
are mainly driven  by  SatoshiDice  (gambling), Mt.Gox  (exchanges),  and Deepbit  (mining). These 
nodes have abnormal high degrees and lead therefore to the strong heavy tails. When looking at the 
plot (Businesses) in Figure 23 for the Bitcoin economy excluding the three major businesses one can 
see a good power law fit to the PDF and CCDF distribution. This might be explained by characteristics 
that are close to a real world economy or other social networks with various types of businesses and 
common  behaviors  by  the  participants. However,  the  slope  coefficient  α  for  different  business 
categories in Figure 24 indicates the existence of a scale‐free network for all business categories except 
the wallets business. Despite the strong heavy tails, the businesses exchanges and mining have a very 
good slope coefficient α with 2.495 and 2.517, respectively. 
 
 
Figure 23. Degree Distribution (PDF, CCDF) for different Business Categories. Figure 23. Degree Distribution (PDF, CCDF) for different Business Categories.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 25 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  26 of 42 
 
Figure 24. Power Law Fit α for Business Categories. 
The degree distribution on country level aggregations reveals again the existence of a scale‐free 
network (Figure 25). The major Bitcoin markets Germany and the U.S. show a good power law fit 
with  a  slope  coefficient  α  of  2.132  and  2.281,  respectively.  The  plots  for Russia  and  Brazil,  the 
representatives for emerging markets, illustrate that the power law does not fit the PDF and CCDF 
distribution as good as in the case for the developed countries. This cannot be seen as a general case, 
since Sweden has a similar power law fit to the degree distributions like Russia. In both countries the 
business distribution is dominated by the mining sector. Hence, the relationship between the degree 
distribution (CCDF) for the mining business and for countries such as Russia or Sweden, indicating 
that a dominant business category such as mining in Russia have influence on the distribution on 
country  level.  This  is  different  from  the  observations  that  were  made  when  considering  the 
transaction value in different countries. In fact, the degree distribution is derived from the number of 
in‐going and out‐going transactions per node regardless of the value that is transacted. 
Figure 25. Degree Distribution (PDF, CCDF) for different Countries. 
Figure 24. Power Law Fit α for Business Categories.
The degree distribution on country level aggregations reveals again the existence of a scale-free
network (Figure 25). The major Bitcoin markets Germany and the U.S. show a good power law fit with
a slope coefficient α of 2.132 and 2.281, respectively. The plots for Russia and Brazil, the representatives
for emerging markets, illustrate that the power law does not fit the PDF and CCDF distribution as
good as in the case for the developed countries. This cannot be seen as a general case, since Sweden
has a similar power law fit to the degree distributions like Russia. In both countries the business
distribution is dominated by the mining sector. Hence, the relationship between the degree distribution
(CCDF) for the mining business and for countries such as Russia or Sweden, indicating that a dominant
business category such as mining in Russia have influence on the distribution on country level. This is
different from the observations that were made when considering the transaction value in different
countries. In fact, the degree distribution is derived from the number of in-going and out-going
transactions per node regardless of the value that is transacted.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  26 of 42 
 
Figure 24. Power Law Fit α for Business Categories. 
The degree distribution on country level aggregations reveals again the existence of a scale‐free 
network (Figure 25). The major Bitcoin markets Germany and the U.S. show a good power law fit 
with  a  slope  coefficient  α  of  2.132  and  2.281,  respectively.  The  plots  for Russia  and  Brazil,  the 
representatives for emerging markets, illustrate that the power law does not fit the PDF and CCDF 
distribution as good as in the case for the developed countries. This cannot be seen as a general case, 
since Sweden has a similar power law fit to the degree distributions like Russia. In both countries the 
business distribution is dominated by the mining sector. Hence, the relationship between the degree 
distribution (CCDF) for the mining business and for countries such as Russia or Sweden, indicating 
that a dominant business category such as mining in Russia have influence on the distribution on 
country  level.  This  is  different  from  the  observations  that  were  made  when  considering  the 
transaction value in different countries. In fact, the degree distribution is derived from the number of 
in‐going and out‐going transactions per node regardless of the value that is transacted. 
Figure 25. Degree Distribution (PDF, CCDF) for different Countries. Figure 25. Degree Distribution (PDF, CCDF) for different Countries.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 26 of 40
Figure 26 shows the power law fit for different countries. The slope coefficient α for all investigated
countries is in the range that determines the existence of a scale-free network, regardless of the number
of executed transactions.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  27 of 42 
Figure  26  shows  the  power  law  fit  for  different  countries.  The  slope  coefficient  α  for  all 
investigated countries is in the range that determines the existence of a scale‐free network, regardless 
of the number of executed transactions. 
   
Figure 26. Power Law Fit α for Countries. 
Analyzing  the  degree  distribution  (PDF  and  CCDF)  of  several  aggregations  on  the  time, 
businesses,  and  country  level,  reveal  that  the Bitcoin network  follows  a power  law distribution, 
although not  over  the  entire value  range. With  increasing  activity  (executed  transactions)  in  the 
network  the  power  law  fit  to  the  degree  distribution  improves.  In  some  cases  the  plots  show 
deviations  between  the  CCDF  distribution with  strong  heavy  tails  and  the  power  law  fit.  The 
“powerlaw” package performs the calculation steps for fitting the power law automatically; hence, 
one cannot draw direct relationships between the power  law fit to the CCDF distribution and the 
actual calculated power  law  fit α. Newman  [31] states  that  just  few real world networks  follow a 
power law distribution over their entire range, and in particular not for smaller values of the variable 
being measured. In reality, therefore, the distribution must deviate from the power law form below 
some minimum value x‐min [31]. In this analysis the calculated best minimal value for power law fit 
(x‐min) and the standard deviation (sigma) is not published. For a more thorough investigation on 
power  laws  in  the  Bitcoin  network,  the  statistics  can  be  easily  calculated with  the  “powerlaw” 
package in NetworkX. 
6.2.2. Centrality in the Bitcoin Network 
In the following analysis the network measure degree centrality will be applied to identify major 
hubs in the Bitcoin economy. The calculation of degree centrality is executed on the main connected 
component of the subgraphs for several aggregations to discover differences between certain businesses 
and countries. 
The  degree  centrality measure  for  the  entire  Bitcoin  network  in  the most  active  time  from 
September  2012  until April  2013  is  depicted  in  Figure  27. When  considering  the  entire  Bitcoin 
economy, the node 11 (Mt.Gox) can be seen as the major hub with a degree centrality of 0.094. Mt.Gox 
was  the  largest  exchange  platform  at  this  time  and  the  trading  activity  surged  due  to  heavy 
speculations on the BTC/USD exchange rate. Furthermore, exchanges serve as entry and exit point 
between the real economy and the Bitcoin economy. The second major hub  in the economy  is the 
gambling business SatoshiDICE with a degree centrality of 0.075. Although it incorporates by far the 
most transactions in the network (~46.9%), it is not the largest hub. The node 29 is also associated to 
the Mt.Gox platform and has the third highest degree centrality with 0.067. Mt.Gox occurs more often 
because the node is not directly marked with the business tag, but the related transaction that a node 
has executed in the network. An increasing number of transactions marked with a business tag that 
Figure 26. Power Law Fit α for Countries.
Analyzing the degree distribution (PDF and CCDF) of several aggregations on the time, businesses,
and country level, reveal that the Bitcoin network follows a power law distribution, although not
over the entire value range. With increasing activity (executed transactions) in the network the
power law fit to the degree distribution improves. In some cases the plots show deviations between
the CCDF distribution with strong heavy tails and the power law fit. The “powerlaw” package
performs the calculation steps for fitting the power law automatically; hence, one cannot draw direct
relationships between the power law fit to the CCDF distribution and the actual calculated power law
fit α. Newman [31] states that just few real world networks follow a power law distribution over their
entire range, and in particular not for smaller values of the variable being measured. In reality, therefore,
the distribution must deviate from the power law form below some minimum value x-min [31]. In this
analysis the calculated best minimal value for power law fit (x-min) and the standard deviation (sigma)
is not published. For a more thorough investigation on power laws in the Bitcoin network, the statistics
can be easily calculated with the “powerlaw” package in NetworkX.
6.2.2. Centrality in the Bitcoin Network
In the following analysis the network measure degree centrality will be applied to identify major hubs
in the Bitcoin economy. The calculation of degree centrality is executed on the main connected component
of the subgraphs for several aggregations to discover differences between certain businesses and countries.
The degree centrality measure for the entire Bitcoin network in the most active time from
September 2012 until April 2013 is depicted in Figure 27. When considering the entire Bitcoin economy,
the node 11 (Mt.Gox) can be seen as the major hub with a degree centrality of 0.094. Mt.Gox was the
largest exchange platform at this time and the trading activity surged due to heavy speculations on
the BTC/USD exchange rate. Furthermore, exchanges serve as entry and exit point between the real
economy and the Bitcoin economy. The second major hub in the economy is the gambling business
SatoshiDICE with a degree centrality of 0.075. Although it incorporates by far the most transactions in
the network (~46.9%), it is not the largest hub. The node 29 is also associated to the Mt.Gox platform
and has the third highest degree centrality with 0.067. Mt.Gox occurs more often because the node
is not directly marked with the business tag, but the related transaction that a node has executed in
the network. An increasing number of transactions marked with a business tag that was executed by
a certain node indicate the control of this node by the business. Instawallet, one of the largest web
wallet services, is the fourth major hub with a degree centrality of 0.043. Web wallets bundle deposits
from many users and are used to store Bitcoins centrally in the web. Therefore, Instawallet become
a central node from where many users execute their transactions within the Bitcoin economy.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 27 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  28 of 42 
was executed by a certain node indicate the control of this node by the business. Instawallet, one of 
the largest web wallet services, is the fourth major hub with a degree centrality of 0.043. Web wallets 
bundle deposits  from many users and are used  to  store Bitcoins  centrally  in  the web. Therefore, 
Instawallet  become  a  central node  from where many users  execute  their  transactions within  the 
Bitcoin economy. 
 
Figure 27. Degree Centrality in the Bitcoin Network (September 2012–April 2013). 
The miscellaneous service CoinAd.com that spends Bitcoins for viewing or clicking certain ads 
is related to 674 transactions, which incorporate over 142 thousand relationships to other users. Thus, 
despite  the  low  number  of  transactions  the  service  is  among  the most  central  nodes within  the 
network. Another important service, the mining pool Deepbit, has a rather low degree centrality with 
0.006, although it incorporates the second highest number of transactions (~684,000) in the network. 
A  reason might  be  that  a majority  of  related  transactions  are  not  part  of  the main  connected 
component graph. 
The statistics in Figure 28 reveal that particular businesses make up the most central hubs within 
certain business categories such as gambling, exchanges, and mining. SatoshiDICE is the largest dice 
game operator within the Bitcoin network and has a degree centrality of 0.779. A degree centrality 
with  the highest possible value of 1.0 would state  that a business  is connected  to all nodes  in  the 
network. The largest exchange platform Mt.Gox is the major hub in the exchange subgraph with a 
degree centrality of 0.62. Compared to other business categories, the second highest degree centrality 
belongs to the web wallet service Instawallet with a value of 0.03. This could be explained by the fact 
that many Bitcoin users transact via their web wallet instead of using local clients. The major hub in 
the mining business is Deepbit, the largest mining pool in the network, with a degree centrality of 
0.876. In case of the donation business, the first and second major hub  is controlled by the Faucet 
Donation. Instawallet and Bitcoin Faucet are the major hubs in the wallet subgraph with a degree 
centrality of 0.395 and 0.223, respectively. The media and vendor business do not show dominant 
hubs within their respective business category. 
Figure 27. Degree Centrality in the Bitcoin Network (September 2012–April 2013).
The miscellaneous service CoinAd.com that spends Bitcoins for viewing or clicking certain ads is
related to 674 transactions, which incorporate over 142 thousand relationships to other users. Thus,
despite the low number of transactions the service is among the most central nodes within the network.
Another important service, the mining pool Deepbit, has a rather low degree centrality with 0.006,
although it incorporates the second highest number of transactions (~684,000) in the network. A reason
might be that a majority of related transactions are not part of the main connected component graph.
The statistics in Figure 28 reveal that particular businesses make up the most central hubs within
certain business categories such as gambling, exchanges, and mining. SatoshiDICE is the largest dice
game operator within the Bitcoin network and has a degree centrality of 0.779. A degree centrality
with the highest possible value of 1.0 would state that a business is connected to all nodes in the
network. The largest exchange platform Mt.Gox is the major hub in the exchange subgraph with
a degree centrality of 0.62. Compared to other business categories, the second highest degree centrality
belongs to the web wallet service Instawallet with a value of 0.03. This could be explained by the fact
that many Bitcoin users transact via their web wallet instead of using local clients. The major hub
in the mining business is Deepbit, the largest mining pool in the network, with a degree centrality
of 0.876. In case of the donation business, the first and second major hub is controlled by the Faucet
Donation. Instawallet and Bitcoin Faucet are the major hubs in the wallet subgraph with a degree
centrality of 0.395 and 0.223, respectively. The media and vendor business do not show dominant hubs
within their respective business category.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  29 of 42 
 
Figure 28. Degree Centrality per Business Category. 
When looking at the top three major hubs in the network for different countries, one can see that 
the  primary  Bitcoin markets  (U.S.  and  Germany)  have  almost  the  same  distribution  of  degree 
centrality (Figure 29). Common facts among all considered countries are the businesses that make up 
the major hubs such as SatoshiDICE and Mt.Gox. The gambling business SatoshiDICE plays a very 
dominant role, especially in Russia and Australia, with a degree centrality of 0.149. France deviates 
slightly, because  Instawallet  is  the  third  largest hub  that  indicates  a higher usage of web wallet 
services in that country. 
 
Figure 29. Degree Centrality per Country. 
One can see that the three major businesses in the Bitcoin economy are also dominant on several 
country aggregations and within their respective business category. Hence, the economy is analyzed 
without these businesses to get more insight on other participants in the network (Figure 30). 
The business with  the highest degree  centrality  (0.172)  in  this  subgraph  is CoinAd.com. As 
mentioned above CoinAd.com is only related to 674 transactions but incorporate over 142 thousand 
relationships  in  the network. An  interesting  finding  is  that  the donation  services  such  as Faucet 
Donation and Bitcoin Foundation are very dominant in comparison to the gambling business sector. 
Furthermore,  the  second  largest exchange platform Bitcoin‐24.com has a  low degree  centrality of 
0.024. Although businesses  such  as BTC Dice,  Instawallet, or Bitcoin‐24.com  are  related  to more 
Figure 28. Degree Centrality per Business Category.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 28 of 40
When looking at the top three major hubs in the network for different countries, one can see
that the primary Bitcoin markets (U.S. and Germany) have almost the same distribution of degree
centrality (Figure 29). Common facts among all considered countries are the businesses that make up
the major hubs such as SatoshiDICE and Mt.Gox. The gambling business SatoshiDICE plays a very
dominant role, especially in Russia and Australia, with a degree centrality of 0.149. France deviates
slightly, because Instawallet is the third largest hub that indicates a higher usage of web wallet services
in that country.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  29 of 42 
 
Figure 28. Degree Centrality per Business Category. 
When looking at the top three major hubs in the network for different countries, one can see that 
the  primary  Bitcoin markets  (U.S.  and  Germany)  have  almost  the  same  distribution  of  degree 
centrality (Figure 29). Common facts among all considered countries are the businesses that make up 
the major hubs such as SatoshiDICE and Mt.Gox. The gambling business SatoshiDICE plays a very 
dominant role, especially in Russia and Australia, with a degree centrality of 0.149. France deviates 
slightly, because  Instawallet  is  the  third  largest hub  that  indicates  a higher usage of web wallet 
services in that country. 
 
Figure 29. Degree Centrality per Country. 
One can see that the three major businesses in the Bitcoin economy are also dominant on several 
country aggregations and within their respective business category. Hence, the economy is analyzed 
without these businesses to get more insight on other participants in the network (Figure 30). 
The business with  the highest degree  centrality  (0.172)  in  this  subgraph  is CoinAd.com. As 
mentioned above CoinAd.com is only related to 674 transactions but incorporate over 142 thousand 
relationships  in  the network. An  interesting  finding  is  that  the donation  services  such  as Faucet 
Donation and Bitcoin Foundation are very dominant in comparison to the gambling business sector. 
Furthermore,  the  second  largest exchange platform Bitcoin‐24.com has a  low degree  centrality of 
0.024. Although businesses  such  as BTC Dice,  Instawallet, or Bitcoin‐24.com  are  related  to more 
Figure 29. Degree Centrality per Country.
One can see that the three major businesses in the Bitcoin economy are also dominant on several
country aggregations and within their respective business category. Hence, the economy is analyzed
without these businesses to get more insight on other participants in the network (Figure 30).
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  30 of 42 
transactions, the actual number of relations to other nodes (measure for degree centrality) is rather 
low in comparison to services like CoinAd.com or Bitcoin Foundation. 
 
Figure 30. Degree Centrality for Business (Excluding the Top 3). 
More complex centrality measures such as betweenness and closeness centrality require high 
computation power and are therefore applied only on small subgraphs. The betweenness centrality 
measure is applied to identify brokers or connectors between groups of nodes within the network. 
With closeness centrality one can identify the most central points from where transacted Bitcoins flow 
most efficiently through the network. 
For  this particular analysis  the subgraphs vendor business and wallet business were chosen. 
Figure  31  shows  the betweenness  and  closeness  centrality  for  the vendor business  category. The 
betweenness centrality measure indicates that Silkroad and Wikispeed are the major brokers in the 
vendor economy. Beside the vendor businesses, the exchange platform Mt.Gox and the web wallet 
service  Instawallet  are  among  the major  brokers  in  the  network.  Exchange  platforms  serve  as 
gateways to the real economy where vendors can trade their earnings to fiat currencies and vice versa. 
On web wallets users can store their Bitcoins online and trade them against goods; thus serving as 
connection between users and the vendor businesses. The closeness centrality measure shows that 
these two businesses are also the most central ones in the network. 
In terms of the wallet business (Figure 32), the major hubs Instawallet and Bitcoin Faucet are 
also the main brokers in the network. Interestingly, the top five betweenness centrality values belong 
all  to wallet businesses  indicating  that web wallets serve as connectors between other businesses. 
When considering the closeness centrality, Instawallet is again the most central node in the network 
followed  by  the  exchange  platform Mt.Gox.  Exchange  platforms  like Mt.Gox  are  very  centrally 
positioned in the network and play an important role within the Bitcoin economy. 
  
Figure 30. Degree Centrality for Business (Excluding the Top 3).
The business with the highest degree centrality (0.172) in this subgraph is CoinAd.com. As mentioned
above CoinAd.com is only related to 674 transactions but incorporate over 142 thousand relationships
in the network. An interesting finding is that the donation services such as Faucet Donation and Bitcoin
Foundation are very dominant in comparison to the gambling business sector. Furthermore, the second
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 29 of 40
largest exchange platform Bitcoin-24.com has a low degree centrality of 0.024. Although businesses
such as BTC Dice, Instawallet, or Bitcoin-24.com are related to more transactions, the actual number of
relations to other nodes (measure for degree centrality) is rather low in comparison to services like
CoinAd.com or Bitcoin Foundation.
More complex centrality measures such as betweenness and closeness centrality require high
computation power and are therefore applied only on small subgraphs. The betweenness centrality
measure is applied to identify brokers or connectors between groups of nodes within the network.
With closeness centrality one can identify the most central points from where transacted Bitcoins flow
most efficiently through the network.
For this particular analysis the subgraphs vendor business and wallet business were chosen.
Figure 31 shows the betweenness and closeness centrality for the vendor business category.
The betweenness centrality measure indicates that Silkroad and Wikispeed are the major brokers
in the vendor economy. Beside the vendor businesses, the exchange platform Mt.Gox and the web
wallet service Instawallet are among the major brokers in the network. Exchange platforms serve as
gateways to the real economy where vendors can trade their earnings to fiat currencies and vice versa.
On web wallets users can store their Bitcoins online and trade them against goods; thus serving as
connection between users and the vendor businesses. The closeness centrality measure shows that
these two businesses are also the most central ones in the network.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  31 of 42 
 
 
Figure 31. Betweenness and Closeness Centrality for the Vendors Business. 
 
 
Figure 32. Betweenness and Closeness Centrality for the Wallets Business. 
6.2.3. Clustering in the Bitcoin Network 
In this section, the network measure average clustering coefficient is going to be applied on the 
time, business, and country level to investigate the global cliquishness in the graph. Furthermore, it 
serves as a first indicator of the small world phenomenon within the Bitcoin network. Analyzing the 
Figure 31. Betweenness and Closeness Centrality for the Vendors Business.
In terms of the wallet business (Figure 32), the major hubs Instawallet and Bitcoin Faucet are
also the main brokers in the network. Interestingly, the top five betweenness centrality values belong
all to wallet businesses indicating that web wallets serve as connectors between other businesses.
When considering the closeness centrality, Instawallet is again the most central node in the network
followed by the exchange platform Mt.Gox. Exchange platforms like Mt.Gox are very centrally
positioned in the network and play an important role within the Bitcoin economy.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 30 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  31 of 42 
 
 
Figure 31. Betweenness and Closeness Centrality for the Vendors Business. 
 
 
Figure 32. Betweenness and Closeness Centrality for the Wallets Business. 
6.2.3. Clustering in the Bitcoin Network 
In this section, the network measure average clustering coefficient is going to be applied on the 
time, business, and country level to investigate the global cliquishness in the graph. Furthermore, it 
serves as a first indicator of the small world phenomenon within the Bitcoin network. Analyzing the 
Figure 32. Betweenness and Closeness Centrality for the Wallets Business.
6.2.3. Clustering in the Bitcoin Network
In this section, the network measure average clustering coefficient is going to be applied on the
time, business, and country level to investigate the global cliquishness in the graph. Furthermore, it
serves as a first indicator of the small world phenomenon within the Bitcoin network. Analyzing the
existence of small world networks requires high computation power and is therefore conducted on
minor subgraphs on the country and business level.
When considering the average clustering measure over time in Figure 33, one can see rather high
coefficients in comparison to random networks, indicating a small world network. The measure was
computed on a monthly basis for the years 2012 and 2013. For the year 2011 the calculation was done
quarterly. The years 2009 and 2010 were omitted from the analysis due to very low activity in the
network and lots of transactions between same entities.
The average clustering coefficient decreases with increasing activity in the network. In quarter
two and three of 2011 the lowest coefficients were computed, while the user activity surged in that
time period. The same effect can be noted for August 2012 and March 2013. Hence, more user activity
in the network reduces the global cliquishness in the Bitcoin economy.
The average clustering coefficients for different business categories are depicted in Figure 34.
Because of limited computation power, the coefficients for the gambling and exchange business
were calculated on subgraphs (January–April 2013). The gambling business has the highest average
clustering coefficient with around 0.5. This indicates that the gambling business is tightly connected
and has a high density of nodes. In contrast, the computed coefficients for other businesses are
rather low but indicate the existence of the small world phenomenon. The mining business has a low
average clustering coefficient with 0.012, indicating a rather separated engagement of the miners in
the network.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 31 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  32 of 42 
existence of small world networks requires high computation power and is therefore conducted on 
minor subgraphs on the country and business level. 
When considering the average clustering measure over time in Figure 33, one can see rather high 
coefficients in comparison to random networks, indicating a small world network. The measure was 
computed on a monthly basis for the years 2012 and 2013. For the year 2011 the calculation was done 
quarterly. The years 2009 and 2010 were omitted from the analysis due to very low activity in the 
network and lots of transactions between same entities. 
 
Figure 33. Average Clustering Coefficient over Time. 
The average clustering coefficient decreases with increasing activity in the network. In quarter 
two and three of 2011 the lowest coefficients were computed, while the user activity surged in that 
time period. The same effect can be noted for August 2012 and March 2013. Hence, more user activity 
in the network reduces the global cliquishness in the Bitcoin economy. 
The average clustering coefficients for different business categories are depicted in Figure 34. 
Because of limited computation power, the coefficients for the gambling and exchange business were 
calculated  on  subgraphs  (January–April  2013).  The  gambling  business  has  the  highest  average 
clustering coefficient with around 0.5. This indicates that the gambling business is tightly connected 
and has a high density of nodes. In contrast, the computed coefficients for other businesses are rather 
low  but  indicate  the  existence  of  the  small world phenomenon. The mining  business  has  a  low 
average clustering coefficient with 0.012, indicating a rather separated engagement of the miners in 
the network. 
 
Figure 34. Average Clustering Coefficient for Business Categories. 
Figure 33. Average Clustering Coefficient over Time.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  32 of 42 
existence of small world networks requires high computation power and is therefore conducted on 
minor subgraphs on the country and business level. 
When considering the average clustering measure over time in Figure 33, one can see rather high 
coefficients in comparison to random networks, indicating a small world network. The measure was 
computed on a monthly basis for the years 2012 and 2013. For the year 2011 the calculation was done 
quarterly. The years 2009 and 2010 were omitted from the analysis due to very low activity in the 
network and lots of transactions between same entities. 
 
Figure 33. Average Clustering Coefficient over Time. 
The average clustering coefficient decreases with increasing activity in the network. In quarter 
two and three of 2011 the lowest coefficients were computed, while the user activity surged in that 
time period. The same effect can be noted for August 2012 and March 2013. Hence, more user activity 
in the network reduces the global cliquishness in the Bitcoin economy. 
The average clustering coefficients for different business categories are depicted in Figure 34. 
Because of limited computation power, the coefficients for the gambling and exchange business were 
calculated  on  subgraphs  (January–April  2013).  The  gambling  business  has  the  highest  average 
clustering coefficient with around 0.5. This indicates that the gambling business is tightly connected 
and has a high density of nodes. In contrast, the computed coefficients for other businesses are rather 
low  but  indicate  the  existence  of  the  small world phenomenon. The mining  business  has  a  low 
average clustering coefficient with 0.012, indicating a rather separated engagement of the miners in 
the network. 
 
Figure 34. Average Clustering Coefficient for Business Categories. Figure 34. Average Clustering Coefficient for Business Categories.
Figure 35 shows the average clustering coefficient for selected countries. The coefficients for the
major markets U.S. and Germany were calculated on subgraphs (January–April 2013). China and
the U.S. have the highest avg. clustering coefficient with 0.116 and 0.130, respectively. These are also
Bitcoin markets that are mainly driven by the gambling business, which has a very high average
clustering coefficient. The coefficients for the other Bitcoin markets are in the range from around 0.05 to
0.08, indicating the existence of the small world phenomenon when considering the average clustering
coefficient for random networks.
In the following, the hypothesis of the small world character will be tested on two business
categories and four countries as representatives for these aggregation levels. To determine the existence
of a small world graph one has to calculate the average clustering coefficient and the average shortest
path length of the graph in question. In addition, a random graph with the same number of nodes and
edges needs to be generated. When comparing the computed network measures the average clustering
coefficient of the Bitcoin network has to be significantly higher than the one of the random network
(CBitcoin " CRandom) while the average shortest path length has to be rather low and is approximately
the same (ASPLBitcoin – ASPLRandom). The calculation of the average shortest path length requires
high computation power for large-scale graphs and subgraphs as it is the case with the Bitcoin network.
Hence, testing for the small world phenomenon is done on minor subgraphs on the country and
business level.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 32 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  33 of 42 
Figure 35 shows the average clustering coefficient for selected countries. The coefficients for the 
major markets U.S. and Germany were calculated on subgraphs (January–April 2013). China and the 
U.S. have  the highest avg. clustering coefficient with 0.116 and 0.130, respectively. These are also 
Bitcoin markets  that are mainly driven by  the gambling business, which has a very high average 
clustering coefficient. The coefficients for the other Bitcoin markets are in the range from around 0.05 
to  0.08,  indicating  the  existence  of  the  small world  phenomenon when  considering  the  average 
clustering coefficient for random networks. 
 
Figure 35. Average Clustering Coefficient per Country. 
In  the  following,  the hypothesis of  the small world character will be  tested on  two business 
categories  and  four  countries  as  representatives  for  these  aggregation  levels.  To  determine  the 
existence  of  a  small world  graph  one has  to  calculate  the  average  clustering  coefficient  and  the 
average shortest path length of the graph in question. In addition, a random graph with the same 
number  of  nodes  and  edges  needs  to  be  generated. When  comparing  the  computed  network 
measures the average clustering coefficient of the Bitcoin network has to be significantly higher than 
the one of the random network ( ̅ ≫ ̅ ) while the average shortest path length has to be 
rather low and is approximately the same ( 	≅ 	 ). The calculation of the average 
shortest path length requires high computation power for large‐scale graphs and subgraphs as it is 
the case with the Bitcoin network. Hence, testing for the small world phenomenon is done on minor 
subgraphs on the country and business level.   
Table 5 shows the results of the small world analysis. On the country level the existence of the 
small world phenomenon could be approved for all considered countries. One can see that the avg. 
clustering coefficient is significantly higher in comparison to the random graph of the same size and 
that  the avg. shortest path  is  in  the same range.  In case of  the considered business categories,  the 
small world phenomenon could only be approved for the wallets business while the vendors business 
missed  the  criteria  mentioned  above.  This  shows  that  a  rather  high  average.  high  clustering 
coefficient alone cannot be used to determine the existence of the small world phenomenon. It serves 
just as a first indicator that requires further analysis on the graph and the comparison of the network 
measures with a random graph of the same size. 
  
Figure 35. Average Clustering Coefficient per Country.
Table 5 shows the results of the small world analysis. On the country level the existence of the
small world phenomenon could be approved for all considered countries. One can see that the avg.
clustering coefficient is significantly higher in comparison to the random graph of the same size and
that the avg. shortest path is in the same range. In case of the considered business categories, the
small world phenomenon could only be approved for the wallets business while the vendors business
missed the criteria mentioned above. This shows that a rather high average. high clustering coefficient
alone cannot be used to determine the existence of the small world phenomenon. It serves just as a first
indicator that requires further analysis on the graph and the comparison of the network measures with
a random graph of the same size.
Table 5. Results of Investigating the Small World Phenomenon on Subgraphs.
Aggregates Bitcoin Graph Random Graph
AVG Clustering AVG Shortest Path AVG Clustering AVG Shortest Path
Country
China 0.130 5.15 0.00071 4.45
Brasil 0.053 4.74 0.00115 4.45
Italy 0.078 4.39 0.00091 4.23
Argentina 0.078 4.78 0.00190 4.25
Business
Wallets 0.085 3.90 0.00402 3.10
Vendors 0.048 3.32 0.062 1.95
6.2.4. Visual Analysis of the Bitcoin Network
In the final part of the network analysis, the tool Gephi is applied to conduct a visual analysis
of the Bitcoin network. The subgraph that is used is based on the tagged businesses excluding the
top three businesses (SatoshiDICE, Mt.Gox, and Deepbit). Furthermore, only a certain amount of
businesses were chosen that play an important role according to their number of transactions or the
transaction value due to limits in computation power. The first visualization (Figure 36) shows the
degree centrality per node given by the size of the node. In addition, the label tags are colored and
sized by the degree centrality (large and dark blue labels are associated to a high degree and vice versa
for the small degree). The nodes are colored according to their category.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 33 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  34 of 42 
Table 5. Results of Investigating the Small World Phenomenon on Subgraphs. 
Aggregates 
Bitcoin Graph  Random Graph 
AVG Clustering  AVG Shortest Path  AVG Clustering  AVG Shortest Path 
Country 
China  0.130  5.15  0.00071  4.45 
Brasil  0.053  4.74  0.00115  4.45 
Italy  0.078  4.39  0.00091  4.23 
Argentina  0.078  4.78  0.00190  4.25 
Business 
Wallets  0.085  3.90  0.00402  3.10 
Vendors  0.048  3.32  0.062  1.95 
6.2.4. Visual Analysis of the Bitcoin Network 
In the final part of the network analysis, the tool Gephi is applied to conduct a visual analysis of 
the Bitcoin network. The subgraph that is used is based on the tagged businesses excluding the top 
three  businesses  (SatoshiDICE,  Mt.Gox,  and  Deepbit).  Furthermore,  only  a  certain  amount  of 
businesses were chosen that play an important role according to their number of transactions or the 
transaction value due to limits in computation power. The first visualization (Figure 36) shows the 
degree centrality per node given by the size of the node. In addition, the label tags are colored and 
sized by the degree centrality (large and dark blue labels are associated to a high degree and vice 
versa for the small degree). The nodes are colored according to their category. 
 
 
Gambling: DICEonCRACK, Betcoins, BitMillions.com 
Media News: WikiLeaks, MissingMyCoins, megabitcoin 
Wallets: Instawallet, Strongcoin 
Donation: Faucet Donation, Bitcoin Foundation 
Exchanges: Bitcoin-24.com, MPEx, MPOE 
Misc: CoinAd.com, bitcoins4.me 
Vendors: Silkroad, room77 
Mining: HHTT Fund Pool, ASICMiner 
Bitcoin OTC: DPP_ 
Figure 36. Visualization of Degree Centrality for Important Subgraph. 
Gambling (65.64%) 
Media News (13%) 
Wallets  (9.01%) 
Donation (3.99%) 
Exchanges (3.35%) 
Misc  (1.93%) 
Vendors  (1.8%) 
Mining  (1.03%) 
Bitcoin OTC (0.26%) 
Figure 36. Visualization of Degree Centrality for Important Subgraph.
When looking at the nodes in the network, one can see that they form groups of clusters for certain
businesses, especially in case of the gambling business (DICEonCRACK, Betcoins, and BitMillion.com).
This confirms the high coefficient from the previous clustering analysis. The highest degree centrality
in this subgraph can be related to the web wallet business (Instawallet and Strongcoin), the gambling
businesses, and the donation business (Faucet Donation).
Figure 37 shows the visualization of the clustering coefficients per node in the Bitcoin network.
Interestingly, the nodes with a high degree centrality have a very small clustering coefficient, but the
nodes around show rather high values, especially in case of the gambling businesses. The highest
clustering coefficients can be seen for the exchange platform MPEx and for the nodes around the
gambling businesses. In contrast, the values for the mining business (dark blue nodes) are among the
lowest in the network. This again confirms the previous analysis on clustering in the Bitcoin economy,
even on a much smaller scale.
Figure 38 shows the aggregated transaction volume per node. Two nodes that are associated to the
vendor Silkroad have the highest value in this particular subgraph. Other nodes that transact higher
volumes of Bitcoins belong to the exchange business (Bitcoin-24.com, MPEx) and the wallet business
(Instawallet). In contrast, the gambling, donation, and media/news business transact rather low values
of Bitcoins in the network. This confirms previous descriptive statistics on the business aggregates.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 34 of 40
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  35 of 42 
When  looking at  the nodes  in  the network, one can see  that  they form groups of clusters  for 
certain  businesses,  especially  in  case  of  the  gambling  business  (DICEonCRACK,  Betcoins,  and 
BitMillion.com). This confirms the high coefficient from the previous clustering analysis. The highest 
degree  centrality  in  this  subgraph  can  be  related  to  the  web  wallet  business  (Instawallet  and 
Strongcoin), the gambling businesses, and the donation business (Faucet Donation). 
Figure 37 shows the visualization of the clustering coefficients per node in the Bitcoin network. 
Interestingly, the nodes with a high degree centrality have a very small clustering coefficient, but the 
nodes around show rather high values, especially in case of the gambling businesses. The highest 
clustering coefficients can be seen  for  the exchange platform MPEx and  for  the nodes around  the 
gambling businesses. In contrast, the values for the mining business (dark blue nodes) are among the 
lowest in the network. This again confirms the previous analysis on clustering in the Bitcoin economy, 
even on a much smaller scale. 
 
Figure 37. Visualization of the Clustering Coefficient in the Bitcoin Network. 
Figure 38 shows the aggregated transaction volume per node. Two nodes that are associated to 
the vendor Silkroad have  the highest value  in  this particular subgraph. Other nodes  that  transact 
higher volumes of Bitcoins belong to the exchange business (Bitcoin‐24.com, MPEx) and the wallet 
business (Instawallet). In contrast, the gambling, donation, and media/news business transact rather 
low values of Bitcoins in the network. This confirms previous descriptive statistics on the business 
aggregates. 
Figure 37. Visualization of the Clustering Coefficient in the Bitcoin Network.Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  36 of 42 
 
Figure 38. Visualization of the Transaction Value in the Bitcoin Network. 
Another  interesting node attribute,  the node size,  is visualized  in Figure 39. The node size  is 
determined by the number of public keys that belong to a user or economic entity and can be seen as 
clusters of public keys. The vendor Silkroad incorporates nearly 210 thousand public keys, while the 
web wallet service Instawallet and the gambling business BitMillions.com have around 110 thousand 
associated  public  keys. Goods  traded  on  Silkroad  are  often  related  to  prohibited  items  such  as 
weapons or drugs; hence, anonymity is essential for the participants. The execution of transactions 
via  several  thousand  public  keys  and  the  usage  of  newly  generated  public  keys  for  every  new 
transaction might increase anonymity. In case of Instawallet, one can assume that most of the public 
keys belong to different users, which use the convenient way of storing and using Bitcoins via web 
wallets  in  the network. Thus, a  large amount of public keys can be  interpreted  in different ways, 
depending on the business or service offered. 
 
Figure 39. Visualization of Node Size (Number of Public Keys) in the Bitcoin Network. 
Figure 38. Visualization of the Transaction Value in the Bitcoin Network.
Another interesting node attribute, the node size, is visualized in Figure 39. The node size
is determined by the number of public keys that belong to a user or economic entity and can be
seen as clusters of public keys. The vendor Silkroad incorporates nearly 210 thousand public keys,
while the web wallet service Instawallet and the gambling business BitMillions.com have around
110 thousand associated public keys. Goods traded on Silkroad are often related to prohibited items
such as weapons or drugs; hence, anonymity is essential for the participants. The execution of
transactions via several thousand public keys and the usage of newly generated public keys for every
new transaction might increase anonymity. In case of Instawallet, one can assume that most of the
public keys belong to different users, which use the convenient way of storing and using Bitcoins via
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 35 of 40
web wallets in the network. Thus, a large amount of public keys can be interpreted in different ways,
depending on the business or service offered.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  36 of 42 
 
Figure 38. Visualization of the Transaction Value in the Bitcoin Network. 
Another  interesting node attribute,  the node size,  is visualized  in Figure 39. The node size  is 
determined by the number of public keys that belong to a user or economic entity and can be seen as 
clusters of public keys. The vendor Silkroad incorporates nearly 210 thousand public keys, while the 
web wallet service Instawallet and the gambling business BitMillions.com have around 110 thousand 
associated  public  keys. Goods  traded  on  Silkroad  are  often  related  to  prohibited  items  such  as 
weapons or drugs; hence, anonymity is essential for the participants. The execution of transactions 
via  several  thousand  public  keys  and  the  usage  of  newly  generated  public  keys  for  every  new 
transaction might increase anonymity. In case of Instawallet, one can assume that most of the public 
keys belong to different users, which use the convenient way of storing and using Bitcoins via web 
wallets  in  the network. Thus, a  large amount of public keys can be  interpreted  in different ways, 
depending on the business or service offered. 
 
Figure 39. Visualization of Node Size (Number of Public Keys) in the Bitcoin Network. Figure 39. Visualization of Node Size (Number of Public Keys) in the Bitcoin Network.
Figure 40 shows visualizations of the betweenness per node in the Bitcoin network. The betweenness
centrality highlights the brokers in this subgraph. The gambling service Betcoins has the highest
betweenness centrality (0.439) in the network and can be seen as the main broker. Other important
nodes that serve as central connection hubs can be related to the gambling services DICEonCRACK
(0.301) and BitMillions.com (0.339) and the web wallet service Instawallet (0.163).
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  37 of 42 
Figure  40  shows  visualizations  of  the  betweenness  per  node  in  the  Bitcoin  network.  The 
betweenness centrality highlights the brokers in this subgraph. The gambling service Betcoins has 
the highest betweenness centrality (0.439) in the network and can be seen as the main broker. Other 
important  nodes  that  serve  as  central  connection  hubs  can  be  related  to  the  gambling  services 
DICEonCRACK (0.301) and BitMillions.com (0.339) and the web wallet service Instawallet (0.163). 
   
Figure 40. Betweenness Centrality in the Bitcoin Network. 
 
Figure 41. Closeness Centrality in the Bitcoin Network. 
The  visualization  of  closeness  centrality  (Figure  41)  shows  the  most  central  nodes  in  the 
subgraph from where Bitcoins are transacted efficiently. One can see that a large portion of the nodes 
related  to  the wallet  business  Strongcoin  have  the  highest  closeness  centrality.  The well‐known 
media/news site WikiLeaks, the vendor Silkroad, and the donation service Bitcoin Foundation are 
also very central in the network. 
The final visualization in Figure 42 shows the Bitcoin network with geo‐located nodes. Nodes 
are colored by country (and edges by the source node). For this analysis, only nodes that transact via 
one IP address can be considered; thus, this subgraph (tagged as Business, excluding SatoshiDICE, 
Figure 40. Betweenness Centrality in the Bitcoin Network.
The visualization of closeness centrality (Figure 41) shows the most central nodes in the subgraph
from where Bitcoins are transacted efficiently. One can see that a large portion of the nodes related to
the wallet business Strongcoin have the highest closeness centrality. The well-known media/news site
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 36 of 40
WikiLeaks, the vendor Silkroad, and the donation service Bitcoin Foundation are also very central in
the network.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  37 of 42 
Figure  40  shows  visualizations  of  the  betweenness  per  node  in  the  Bitcoin  network.  The 
betweenness centrality highlights the brokers in this subgraph. The gambling service Betcoins has 
the highest betweenness centrality (0.439) in the network and can be seen as the main broker. Other 
important  nodes  that  serve  as  central  connection  hubs  can  be  related  to  the  gambling  services 
DICEonCRACK (0.301) and BitMillions.com (0.339) and the web wallet service Instawallet (0.163). 
   
Figure 40. Betweenness Centrality in the Bitcoin Network. 
 
Figure 41. Closeness Centrality in the Bitcoin Network. 
The  visualization  of  closeness  centrality  (Figure  41)  shows  the  most  central  nodes  in  the 
subgraph from where Bitcoins are transacted efficiently. One can see that a large portion of the nodes 
related  to  the wallet  business  Strongcoin  have  the  highest  closeness  centrality.  The well‐known 
media/news site WikiLeaks, the vendor Silkroad, and the donation service Bitcoin Foundation are 
also very central in the network. 
The final visualization in Figure 42 shows the Bitcoin network with geo‐located nodes. Nodes 
are colored by country (and edges by the source node). For this analysis, only nodes that transact via 
one IP address can be considered; thus, this subgraph (tagged as Business, excluding SatoshiDICE, 
Figure 41. Closeness Centrality in the Bitcoin Network.
The final visualization in Figure 42 shows the Bitcoin network with geo-located nodes. Nodes are
colored by country (and edges by the source node). For this analysis, only nodes that transact via one
IP address can be considered; thus, this subgraph (tagged as Business, excluding SatoshiDICE, Mt.Gox,
and Deepbit) of the Bitcoin network is smaller than in the previous analyses. Through the usage of web
wallets and other central services a node might have several IP addresses and subsequently different
geo-locations. In contrast, many different nodes can transact Bitcoins via one IP address, because of
regional concentrations of Bitcoin users.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7  38 of 42 
Mt.Gox, and Deepbit) of the Bitcoin network is smaller than in the previous analyses. Through the 
usage  of  web  wallets  and  other  central  services  a  node might  have  several  IP  addresses  and 
subsequently different geo‐locations. In contrast, many different nodes can transact Bitcoins via one 
IP address, because of regional concentrations of Bitcoin users. 
 
Figure 42. Bitcoin Network and Earth Geography 
7. Conclusion, Limitations and Outlook 
This  explorative  research  examined  the  Bitcoin  economy  and  network  by  introducing  an 
enriched  data.  The  data model  incorporates  the  Bitcoin  user  network  introduced  by  Reid  and 
Harrigan  [2]  and  scraped  information  from  several websites  to  construct new  aggregates on  the 
business  and geographical  level. This  information  contains business  tags,  IP  addresses,  and geo‐
locations  that could also be associated  to Bitcoin users. Furthermore,  trade data on  the BTC/USD 
exchange rate and data on anonymous services such as Tor were extracted. 
To conduct analysis on  the business aggregation  level  the  tags  related  to a  transaction were 
categorized into 13 categories. Over 54% of all transactions could be classified. The first analysis on 
business categories reveals that around 48% of all transactions are related to gambling services and 
almost  46%  are  associated  to  the dice game SatoshiDICE. The  second  and  third  largest business 
according  to  the number of  transactions  is  the mining pool Deepbit with 4.3% and  the exchange 
platform Mt.Gox with  1.7%,  respectively. When  analyzing  the  number  of  transactions  and  the 
transaction volume for particular businesses, a different transaction pattern was found among the 
categories.  Businesses  such  as  exchanges,  vendors,  or wallets  transact  rather  large  amounts  of 
Bitcoins, while businesses such as gambling or donation transact very small amounts of Bitcoins in 
the network. This was expressed by the T/V ratio (transaction to value ratio). For instance, the T/V 
ratio for gambling  is 25 and that of the vendor business is 0.1. Further analysis on the transaction 
value distribution reveals that 63% of all transactions are in the range from 0.00000001 until 1.0 BTC 
and the gambling businesses incorporate most of them but with a decreasing trend in higher value 
regions. In the ranges above 100 BTC, most transactions are related to the exchange business. The 
development of  the business categories over  time shows  that Bitcoin Talk users and  the donation 
services were among  the most active participants because of  their  importance during  the startup 
phase of Bitcoin. Later on, web wallets, media and news, and exchange platforms enter the Bitcoin 
economy. With  the  introduction  of  gambling  services  the  number  of  transactions  gets  inflated, 
especially  by  the  most  popular  SatoshiDICE  game.  The  differences  between  the  number  of 
transactions and the transaction volume for particular categories could be also observed over time. 
Figure 42. Bitcoin Network and Earth Geography
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 37 of 40
7. Conclusion, Limitations and Outlook
This explorative research examined the Bitcoin economy and network by introducing an enriched
data. The data model incorporates the Bitcoin user network introduced by Reid and Harrigan [2]
and scraped information from several websites to construct new aggregates on the business and
geographical level. This information contains business tags, IP addresses, and geo-locations that could
also be associated to Bitcoin users. Furthermore, trade data on the BTC/USD exchange rate and data
on anonymous services such as Tor were extracted.
To conduct analysis on the business aggregation level the tags related to a transaction were
categorized into 13 categories. Over 54% of all transactions could be classified. The first analysis
on business categories reveals that around 48% of all transactions are related to gambling services
and almost 46% are associated to the dice game SatoshiDICE. The second and third largest business
according to the number of transactions is the mining pool Deepbit with 4.3% and the exchange
platform Mt.Gox with 1.7%, respectively. When analyzing the number of transactions and the
transaction volume for particular businesses, a different transaction pattern was found among the
categories. Businesses such as exchanges, vendors, or wallets transact rather large amounts of Bitcoins,
while businesses such as gambling or donation transact very small amounts of Bitcoins in the network.
This was expressed by the T/V ratio (transaction to value ratio). For instance, the T/V ratio for
gambling is 25 and that of the vendor business is 0.1. Further analysis on the transaction value
distribution reveals that 63% of all transactions are in the range from 0.00000001 until 1.0 BTC and the
gambling businesses incorporate most of them but with a decreasing trend in higher value regions.
In the ranges above 100 BTC, most transactions are related to the exchange business. The development
of the business categories over time shows that Bitcoin Talk users and the donation services were
among the most active participants because of their importance during the startup phase of Bitcoin.
Later on, web wallets, media and news, and exchange platforms enter the Bitcoin economy. With the
introduction of gambling services the number of transactions gets inflated, especially by the most
popular SatoshiDICE game. The differences between the number of transactions and the transaction
volume for particular categories could be also observed over time.
The analysis on the geographic aggregation level was not done before on this scale and requires the
exclusion of IP addresses that could be associated to Tor, Proxy or VPN services (~1.6% of transactions).
When analyzing the Bitcoin economy geographically, one can see that the major markets are in the U.S.
and Germany. The geographic distribution of the transaction volume reveals that Bitcoins are mainly
used in countries with a good infrastructure during the analyzed time interval.
With the linkage of geo-locations to transactions with business tags, an innovative analysis of
the distributions of businesses per country could be conducted. Northern European countries like
Germany, Sweden, Russia, or France have a similar business distribution with a strong focus on
mining with around 56%. In contrast, the U.S., Canada, and Brazil, which share a common business
distribution with a focus on the gambling business with around 65%. A special case could be seen
for the Chinese Bitcoin market, where 87% of transaction volume is linked to the gambling business.
Another finding is that countries such as Spain, U.S., Canada, and Argentina were more engaged in
the exchange business with around 10%, indicating a higher speculative behavior. In the cases of Spain
and Argentina this could be related to economic and financial distress, and the searching for new save
havens, while in the U.S. and Canada users are more market oriented and seeking for high abnormal
returns through speculation on the Bitcoin exchange rate.
Investigation of the degree distribution and power law over time reveals that the Bitcoin network
follows a power law distribution over large parts of the value range. Since 2010, the Bitcoin network
can be considered as a scale-free network with a power law slope coefficient α in the range between
2.0 and 2.6 in the time horizon from 2010 to 2013. The degree distributions for particular businesses
show strong heavy tails for the gambling, mining, and exchange business. These business categories
are mainly driven by one business with an abnormal high degree. The power law slope coefficient
α for all business categories (except the wallets business) is in the range between two and three,
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 38 of 40
indicating a scale-free network. On the country level, the degree distributions show a similar result.
All considered countries have a power law slope coefficient α between two and three, indicating the
existence of a scale-free network. The analysis reveals that the majority of the investigated subgraphs
of the Bitcoin network are scale-free networks.
To identify major hubs in the Bitcoin network, the degree centrality was analyzed. The results on
the entire Bitcoin network in the most active time from September 2012 to April 2013 reveal that the
major hub nodes are controlled by the exchange platform Mt.Gox, the gambling service SatoshiDICE,
and the web wallet service Instawallet. Next, the degree centrality was analyzed on the business
aggregates. The results show that the dominant services in a business category are also the major hubs
in the network. This is especially the case for SatoshiDICE in the gambling business, Mt.Gox in the
exchange business, Deepbit in the mining business, and Instawallet in the wallet business category.
The analysis of the average clustering coefficient indicates the existence of the small world
phenomenon in the Bitcoin network over time as well as on the country and business aggregation level.
This kind of analysis needs high computation power and was therefore tested on minor subgraphs
on the business and country aggregation level. The existence of the small world phenomenon could
be demonstrated for the country aggregations China, Brazil, Italy, and Argentina. For the business
aggregations, the wallet and vendor businesses were investigated. Only the wallet business could be
considered as small world network. The vendor business missed the requirements. This shows that
a rather high clustering coefficient is just a first indicator and needs further investigation.
Further network statistics could be applied on a representative subgraph of the Bitcoin economy
to identify clusters, hubs, brokers, and most central nodes in the network. Furthermore, particular
Bitcoin nodes and their interaction in the network could be identified and a geographic visualization
of the subgraph was realized. This gives new insights on the Bitcoin economy in a visual way.
Several interesting aspects of the Bitcoin economy could be covered in this work, but there are
some limitations that could be addressed in future research. Extensions of this work should contain
most recent data of the Bitcoin network to get insight on new developments in the economy, such
as the attack on Mt.Gox with the subsequent closing of the exchange platform, or the closing of the
vendor Silkroad. Furthermore, the intense fluctuations of the BTC/USD exchange rate in late 2013,
resulting in a record high over $1,200 per Bitcoin, could be investigated. Another method would
be time series analysis on economic distressed countries such as Spain, Cyprus, or Argentina and
investigations on how the Bitcoin economy evolved during this time. One could also analyze the
economic development in certain countries with appropriate economic measures and regress it against
Bitcoin variables. Although events that explain the movements have been presented in this work,
one could link these to network analysis and also visually investigate the Bitcoin transaction flows.
Even though 54% of all transactions could be related to a business tag and category, only 1.5% of
them are not associated to the major businesses SatoshiDICE, Mt.Gox, or Deepbit. Re-identification
techniques introduced by Meiklejohn et al. [8] could be applied in addition to the Blockchain.info
web scraper to link further businesses to transactions, especially for high volume transactions.
With their approach and modified clustering algorithms Meiklejohn et al. could tag around 2200 out
of 3.38 million user nodes in the network. The more conservative and reliable clustering algorithm
applied in this study is based on the research by Reid and Harrigan [2] and resulted in around
6.3 million user nodes.
With sufficient computation power, future research could have a stronger focus on the network
analysis of the Bitcoin economy. Then, complex network measures such as betweenness and closeness
centrality, the average shortest path length, average clustering, and simulation of random networks
can be applied on a much larger scale. Hence, the small world phenomenon could be investigated on
large subgraphs or even on the entire Bitcoin network. Furthermore, the visualization of the Bitcoin
economy could be extended on time, country, and business aggregation levels. Overall, our methods
and data provide a starting point into a variety of fields for further research on Bitcoin.
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 39 of 40
Acknowledgments: The authors would like to thank Annika Baumann for helpful discussions during early stages
of this research.
Author Contributions: Matthias Lischke and Benjamin Fabian jointly designed the research concept. Matthias Lischke
gathered the data and conducted the analyses. Both authors jointly wrote the paper.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Nakamoto, S. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. 2008. Available online:
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
2. Reid, F.; Harrigan, M. An Analysis of Anonymity in the Bitcoin System. In Security and Privacy in Social Networks;
Springer: New York, NY, USA, 2012; pp. 197–223.
3. The Economist: Bitcoins. Available online: http://www.economist.com/topics/bitcoins (accessed on
1 March 2016).
4. Baumann, A.; Fabian, B.; Lischke, M. Exploring the Bitcoin Network. In Proceedings of the 10th International
Conference on Web Information Systems and Technologies (WEBIST); WEBIST: Barcelona, Spain, 2014.
5. Drainville, D. An Analysis of the Bitcoin Electronic Cash System. 2012. Available online:
http://cryptolibrary.org/handle/21/601 (accessed on 1 March 2016).
6. Ober, M.; Katzenbeisser, S.; Hamacher, K. Structure and Anonymity of the Bitcoin Transaction Graph.
Future Internet 2013, 5, 237–250. [CrossRef]
7. Bitcoinmining: Bitcoin Mining Pools. Available online: https://www.bitcoinmining.com/bitcoin-mining-pools/
(accessed on 1 March 2016).
8. Meiklejohn, S.; Pomarole, M.; Jordan, G.; Levchenko, K.; McCoy, D.; Voelker, G.M.; Savage, S. A Fistful
of Bitcoins: Characterizing Payments Among Men with No Names. In Proceedings of the 2013 Internet
Measurement Conference; ACM: New York, NY, USA, 2013; pp. 127–140.
9. Spagnuolo, M. BitIodine: Extracting Intelligence from the Bitcoin Network. Thesis, Politecnico di Milano, 2013.
Available online: http://miki.it/pdf/thesis.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
10. Androulaki, E.; Karame, G.O.; Roeschlin, M.; Scherer, T.; Capkun, S. Evaluating User Privacy in Bitcoin.
In Financial Cryptography and Data Security; Lecture Notes in Computer Science; Springer: Berlin, Geramny;
Heidelberg, Germany, 2013; Volume 7859, pp. 34–51.
11. Kaminsky, D. Black Ops of TCP/IP, Presentation, Black Hat & Chaos Communication Camp 2011.
Available online: http://de.slideshare.net/dakami/black-ops-of-tcpip-2011-black-hat-usa-2011 (accessed on
1 March 2016).
12. Ortega, M. The Bitcoin Transaction Graph Anonymity. Master Thesis, Universitat Oberta
de Catalunya, 2013. Available online: http://openaccess.uoc.edu/webapps/o2/bitstream/10609/23562/9/
msantamariaoTFM0613memoria.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
13. Python. Available online: http://www.python.org/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
14. BTC-Network Data Scraper. Available online: https://github.com/ivan-brugere/Bitcoin-Transaction-Network-Extraction
(accessed on 1 March 2016).
15. Bitcoin Client v0.5.3.1. Available online: https://bitcoin.org/en/release/v0.5.3.1 (accessed on 1 March 2016).
16. Brugere, I. Bitcoin Transaction Network Dataset. Data Set 2013. Available online: http://compbio.cs.uic.edu/
data/bitcoin/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
17. Eclipse SDK Workbench. Available online: http://www.eclipse.org/downloads/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
18. NetworkX. Available online: http://networkx.github.io/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
19. MatPlotLib. Available online: http://matplotlib.org/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
20. PyGraphviz. Available online: http://networkx.lanl.gov/pygraphviz/index.html (accessed on 1 March 2016).
21. Gephi. Available online: https://gephi.org/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
22. Cran-R. Available online: http://www.r-project.org/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
23. Cran-R Spatial Data Package. Available online: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/sp/index.html
(accessed on 1 March 2016).
24. Cran-R Maptools Package. Available online: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/maptools/index.html
(accessed on 1 March 2016).
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/fi5020237
Future Internet 2016, 8, 7 40 of 40
25. Cran-R RColorBrewer Package. Available online: http://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/RColorBrewer/
index.html (accessed on 1 March 2016).
26. Gross, J.; Yellen, J. Handbook of Graph Theory; CRC Press LLC: Boca Raton, FL, USA, 2004.
27. Nykamp, D.Q. The Degree Distribution of a Network. 2013. Available online: http://mathinsight.org/
degree_distribution (accessed on 1 March 2016).
28. Albert, R.; Barabasi, A.-L. Statistical Mechanics of Complex Networks. Rev. Mod. Phys. 2002, 74, 47. [CrossRef]
29. Clegg, R. Power Laws in Networks, Lecture, University of York, 2006. Available online: http://www.richardclegg.org/
networks2/SpecialLecture_06.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
30. Newman, M.E.J. The Structure and Function of Complex Networks. SIAM Rev. 2006, 45, 167–256. [CrossRef]
31. Newman, M.E.J. Power Laws, Pareto Distributions, Zipf’s Law. Contemp. Phys. 2005, 46, 323–351. [CrossRef]
32. Barabasi, A.-L.; Albert, R.; Jeong, H. Scale-free Characteristics of Random Networks: The Topology of the
World-Wide Web. Phys. A 2000, 281, 2069–2077.
33. Inaoka, H.; Ninomiya, T.; Taniguchi, K.; Shimizu, T.; Takayasu, H. Fractal Network Derived from Banking
Transaction—An Analysis of Network Structures Formed by Financial Institutions. 2004. Available online:
https://www.boj.or.jp/en/research/wps_rev/wps_2004/data/wp04e04.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
34. Saramäki, J.; Kivela, M.; Onnela, J.-P.; Kaski, K.; Kertesz, J. Generalizations of the Clustering Coefficient to
Weighted Complex Networks. Phys. Rev. E 2007, 75, 027105. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
35. Watts, D.; Strogatz, S. Collective Dynamics of Small-World Networks. Nature 1998, 393, 440–442. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
36. Mao, G.; Zhang, N. Analysis of Average Shortest-Path Length of Scale-Free Network. J. Appl. Math. 2013.
[CrossRef]
37. Freeman, L. Centrality in Social Networks Conceptual Clarification. Soc. Netw. 1979, 1, 215–239.
Available online: http://leonidzhukov.ru/hse/2013/socialnetworks/papers/freeman79-centrality.pdf
(accessed on 1 March 2016). [CrossRef]
38. Bonacich, P. Power and Centrality: A Family of Measures. Am. J. Sociol. 1987, 92, 1170–1182. [CrossRef]
39. Borgatti, S. Centrality and Network Flow. Soc. Netw. 2005, 27, 55–71. [CrossRef]
40. Yan, E.; Ding, Y. Applying Centrality Measures to Impact Analysis: A Coauthorship Network Analysis. 2010.
Available online: http://arxiv.org/pdf/1012.4862.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
41. Newman, M.E.J. A measure of betweenness centrality based on random walks. Soc. Netw. 2005, 27, 39–54.
Available online: http://arxiv.org/pdf/cond-mat/0309045.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016). [CrossRef]
42. Brugere, I. Bitcoin tools. Available online: https://github.com/ivan-brugere/Bitcoin-Transaction-Network-Extraction
(accessed on 1 March 2016).
43. Blockchain.info. Blockchain Data API. Available online: https://blockchain.info/de/api/blockchain_api
(accessed on 1 March 2016).
44. Bitcoin Charts. Historical Trade Data. Available online: http://bitcoincharts.com/charts/mtgoxUSD#igDailyzczsg
2010-07-17zeg2013-12-23ztgSzm1g10zm2g25zv (accessed on 1 March 2016).
45. Bitcoin Talk Forum. Available online: https://bitcointalk.org/ (accessed on 1 March 2016).
46. Alstott, J. Powerlaw: A Python Package for Analysis of Heavy-Tailed Distributions. 2014. Available online:
http://arxiv.org/pdf/1305.0215v3.pdf (accessed on 1 March 2016).
© 2016 by the authors; licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access
article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons by Attribution
(CC-BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/RevModPhys.74.47
http://dx.doi.org/10.1137/S003614450342480
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/00107510500052444
http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevE.75.027105
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17358454
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/30918
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9623998
http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2013/865643
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0378-8733(78)90021-7
http://dx.doi.org/10.1086/228631
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.socnet.2004.11.008
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.socnet.2004.11.009
http://creativecommons.org/
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
	Introduction 
	Bitcoin Technology and Economy 
	Related Work 
	Methods 
	Data Collection and Management 
	Network Metrics 
	Degree Distribution and Power Laws 
	Clustering 
	Shortest Path Length 
	Centrality 
	Data 
	Bitcoin Transaction Data 
	Enriching the Dataset 
	IP and Business Tags 
	IP Geo-location 
	Tor and Proxy Nodes 
	Trade Data 
	Final Data Model 
	Analysis and Results 
	Statistics 
	Bitcoin General Statistics 
	Bitcoin Business Statistics 
	Geography of the Bitcoin Economy 
	Network Analysis 
	Degree Distribution and Power Law of the Bitcoin Network 
	Centrality in the Bitcoin Network 
	Clustering in the Bitcoin Network 
	Visual Analysis of the Bitcoin Network 
	Conclusion, Limitations and Outlook