Analysis of Accounting Fraud in Enterprises Based on Game Theory——Take the Case of Geeya Technology Company Limited Fraud as an Example
Analysis of Accounting Fraud in Enterprises Based on Game
Theory——Take the Case of Geeya Technology Company Limited
Fraud as an Example
Shali Liu∗
Shandong University, Weihai, China, Sallyliugz@outlook.com
ABSTRACT
Based on the game theory, focusing on the analysis of various
factors affecting the financial fraud of domestic enterprises and
the collusion of auditors make it possible to find out the dominant
influencing factors and to put forward suggestions to reduce the
possibility of financial fraud of enterprises. The game shows that
the probability of fraud or collusion between the enterprise and the
auditor mainly stems from the game between the benefit and the
cost, which conforms to the "rational person" assumption. From
the perspective of enterprises, progressive punishment can be set
to increase the cost of fraud, improve the remuneration system
and use the reward reporting function of blockchain technology to
reduce the motivation of fraud; from the perspective of auditors,
the mandatory rotation system can be implemented to increase
the cost of non-compliance, enhance the independence of auditors
and use the reward mechanism of blockchain audit to reduce the
probability of collusion.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Social and professional topics→ Professional topics; Comput-
ing and business; Economic impact.
KEYWORDS
Game Theory, Financial Fraud, Geeya Technology Company Lim-
ited, Blockchain Technology
ACM Reference Format:
Shali Liu and Shandong University, Weihai, China, Sallyliugz@outlook.com.
2021. Analysis of Accounting Fraud in Enterprises Based onGameTheory——
Take the Case of Geeya Technology Company Limited Fraud as an Example.
In 2021 2nd Asia-Pacific Conference on Image Processing, Electronics and
Computers (IPEC2021), April 14–16, 2021, Dalian, China. ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 4 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3452446.3452542
∗* Corresponding author
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
IPEC2021, April 14–16, 2021, Dalian, China
© 2021 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8981-5/21/04. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3452446.3452542
1 CASE BACKGROUND OF GEEYA
TECHNOLOGY COMPANY LIMITED
Geeya Technology Company Limited (hereinafter referred to as
"Geeya Technology") is one of the first listed companies on the
gem. Its main business is related business of software and hardware
products of digital TV system, including research and develop-
ment, production, sales and service and is committed to becoming
a leader in the field of digital multimedia in China [1]. On June 3,
2015, the abnormal asset restructuring action of Geeya Technology,
which acquired Tianxiang Hudong at a high price, was suspected of
profit transfer, which attracted the attention of the China Securities
Regulatory Commission (CSRC) and was required to supplement
materials. As a result, the CSRC found that it was suspected of
financial fraud, so it launched an investigation. Since June 9, 2015,
Geeya Technology has suspended trading and self-examination. In
January 2016, it released its self-examination report and admitted
that there was a huge amount of inconsistency between accounts
and reality.
2 THE BASIC ASSUMPTIONS OF GAME
THEORY
There are three basic assumptions in game theory. One is "ratio-
nal man hypothesis", meaning that the game participants are all
rational persons, including cognitive rationality and behavioral
rationality. The second is the "assumption of pursuing maximum
self-interest". Assuming the players in the game will choose the
actions that can maximize their personal interests, there will in-
evitably be divergence of interests among the players in the game.
The third is "common knowledge assumptions". The players in the
game reach a consensus on the "rationality" of the participants and
the rules of the game and know each other is rational or each other
knows the rules [2].
3 GAME ANALYSIS OF FRAUD
3.1 Game Premise Assumption
First, it is assumed that the cost of blockchain audit is higher than
that of traditional audit. However, the use of blockchain technology
can reduce information asymmetry. As the reward mechanism of
blockchain technology is that the one who first calculates the results
and successfully adds them to the account book will receive certain
reward first, other auditors will eventually find out the enterprise
fraud under the reward mechanism.
Secondly, under the traditional audit, if the entrusted auditor
does not find any fraud, the enterprise fraud will not be found
within a certain period. At the same time, it is assumed that other
auditors are not aware in advance of whether the enterprise is
373
https://doi.org/10.1145/3452446.3452542
https://doi.org/10.1145/3452446.3452542
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3452446.3452542&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2021-04-25
IPEC2021, April 14–16, 2021, Dalian, China Shali Liu
fraudulent or whether the enterprise and the entrusted auditor are
collusive.
Thirdly, assuming the strategy of the enterprise is S= (fraud,
non-fraud), the probability of selecting fraud is α ; assuming the
strategy of the entrusted auditor is S= (select collusion after fraud
detection, refuse collusion after fraud detection, no fraud is found),
the probability of fraud detection isγ and the probability of selecting
collusion after fraud detection is β ; assuming the strategy of other
auditors is S= (detect fraud).
3.2 Expected Utility of Game Participants
(1) 1. Suppose that the utility function of an enterprise is ex-
pressed as: U1=MAXF (basic revenue A1, fraud revenue A2,
cost saving of Distributed Ledger Technology A3, reward
for correcting recording of Distributed Ledger Technology
A4, additional cost of Distributed Ledger Technology A5,
amount of audit fee paid A6, additional cost of purchasing
audit opinion A7, additional cost of modifying records A8,
fine and reputation loss A9).
(2) Suppose that the utility function of the entrusted auditor is
expressed as: U2 = MAXF (audit fee revenue B1, cost saving
of blockchain audit B2, additional reward for blockchain
audit detecting fraud and properly recording B3, reputation
improvement for fraud detection B4, revenue from audit
opinion purchased A7, additional cost of blockchain audit
B5, additional cost of modifying records B6, future fine for
not detecting fraud and reputational loss B7).
(3) Suppose that the utility function of other auditors is ex-
pressed as: U3 =MAXF (additional reward and reputation
improvement for fraud detection C)
3.3 Game Analysis
3.3.1 Game Analysis under Blockchain Audit. (1) The revenue func-
tion of an enterprise is as follows:
Eα = αγ β (A1 + A2 + A3 − A5 − A6 − A7 − A8 − A9)
+αγ (1 − β) (A1 + A2 + A3 − A5 − A6 − A9)
+α (1 − γ ) (A1 + A3 + A4 − A5 − A6) (1)
In order to make the game reach equilibrium, the first partial
derivative of Eα with respect to α is 0,E′α (α) = 0,then we get
γ β = A2−A4−A9
A7+A8
. β is the probability of discovering fraud and collu-
sion. According to the formula, we can infer that the probability
of collusion is directly proportional to the fraud revenue (A2) and
inversely proportional to the reward for correcting recording of
Distributed Ledger Technology (A4), the additional cost of purchas-
ing audit opinion (A7), the additional cost of modifying records
(A8) and the fine and reputation loss (A9).
(2) The revenue function of the entrusted auditor is as follows:
Eβ =αγ β (B1 + B2 + A7 − B5 − B6 − B7) + α (1 − β)γ (B1 + B2
+B3 + B4 − B5) + α (1 − γ ) (B1 + B2 − B5 − B7)
+ (1 − α) (B1 + B2 − B5) (2)
The conditions for the game to reach equilibrium are as
follows:E′β (β) = 0,then we get E′β (β) = αγ (A7 − B6 − B3 − B4). α
is inversely proportional to γ if and only if A7 − B6 − B3 − B4 = 0,
i.e. A7 − B6 = B3 + B4. For the entrusted auditor, when the cost
of collusion is equal to the reward obtained without collusion, the
probability of fraud (α ) is inversely proportional to the probability
of whether the auditor can detect fraud (γ ). At this time, there will
be a game between the auditor and the enterprise. When the prob-
ability of fraud (γ ) increases, the probability of corporate fraud (α )
decreases, but the increase of γ will lead to the increase of audit
cost.
Let E′β (γ ) = 0, then we get β = −(B3+B4+B7)
A7−B6−(B3+B4+B7) =
1
1− A7−B6
(B3+B4)+B7
.
(A7 − B6) is the fraud revenue obtained from the collusion between
the entrusted auditor and the enterprise. When the fraud revenue
is higher, the probability of collusion is greater; (B3 + B4 + B7) is
the reward obtained by the entrusted auditor after issuing the non-
unqualified opinion, that is, the reward for the entrusted auditor not
to collude with the enterprise. The richer the reward is, the smaller
the probability β is for the entrusted auditor to choose collusion.
3.3.2 Game Analysis under Traditional Audit. (1) The revenue func-
tion of an enterprise is as follows:
Eα =αγ β (A1+A2−A6−A7 − A9) + αγ (1 − β) (A1 + A2 − A6 − A9)
+α (1 − γ ) (A1 + A2 − A6 − A9) + (1 − α) (A1 − A6) (3)
Let E′α (α) = 0, then we get γ β = A2−A9
A7
. According to the formula,
it can be concluded that the probability of whether the enterprise
chooses to collude is directly proportional to the total fraud rev-
enue (A2 − A9)and inversely proportional to the additional cost of
purchasing audit opinion (A7).
The revenue function of an enterprise is as follows: [3].
αγ β (A1 + A2 − A6 − A7 − A9) + αγ (1 − β)
(A1 + A2 − A6 − A9) + α (1 − γ )
(A1 + A2 − A6 − A9) , f raud
(1 − α) (A1 − A6) , non − f raud
(4)
If and only if the enterprise fraud revenue and non-fraud revenue
are equal, the game is balanced. Then we get α = 1
2+ −(A2−A9−βγA7)
−(A1−A6)
.
The probability of fraud is inversely proportional to the basic rev-
enue of daily operation(A1 − A6) and is directly proportional to the
total revenue of fraud(A2 − A9 − βγA7).
The revenue function of the entrusted auditor is as follows:
Eβ =αγ β (B1 + A7 − B7) + α (1 − β)γ (B1 + B4 − B7)
+α (1 − γ ) (B1 − B7) + (1 − α)B1 (5)
Let E′β (β) = 0, then we get β = 1
1− A7
B4
. The probability of collusion
between the entrusted auditor and the enterprise β is inversely
proportional to the reputation of fraud detection and is directly
proportional to revenue from audit opinion purchased (A7).
3.4 Game Analysis Conclusion
Whether in the blockchain audit or in the traditional audit mode,
the fraud probability of an enterprise α is directly proportional to
the total fraud revenue; it is inversely proportional to the basic
revenue when there is no fraud and is inversely proportional to the
probability that the auditor of the entrusted party can find the fraud.
The probability of collusion β is directly proportional to the total
revenue of collusion and inversely proportional to the reward of
374
Analysis of Accounting Fraud in Enterprises Based on Game Theory——Take the Case of Geeya Technology Company Limited
Fraud as an Example IPEC2021, April 14–16, 2021, Dalian, China
non-collusion. This conclusion is consistent with "rational person
hypothesis" and "pursuit of maximum interest hypothesis".
Under the blockchain audit model, due to the existence of com-
petition mechanism and incentive mechanism, other auditors hope
to find out the financial fraud information as soon as possible for
the sake of obtaining a larger share in the limited incentive pool.
Theoretically, there is only a time difference between the entrusted
auditors and other auditors when they fail to find out the fraud.
However, there is no probability that other auditors fail to find the
fraud.
4 GAME ANALYSIS OF GEEYA TECHNOLOGY
FRAUD CASES
(1) When the total revenue of corporate fraud is far greater than
the consequences of fraud, the probability of corporate fraud α is
larger [3].
Illegal occupation of funds is one of the main means of Geeya
Technology fraud. In February 2015, Geeya Technology wanted
to acquire all the equity of Tianxiang Hudong and purchased it at
a price nearly 20 times higher than the company’s fair value. As
a result, the retail investors who did not understand the essence
even felt that it was a situation of strong and powerful cooperation,
which promoted the share price of Geeya Technology to rise rapidly
from 15 yuan to 68 yuan. If the restructuring is successful, Geeya
Technology will have to pay nearly 100 million yuan in cash and
121 million yuan in shares to Zhou Xuhui, the major shareholder
of Geeya Technology [4]. It can be said that "getting something
from nothing", it will obtain huge benefits. The second means is
to increase operating revenue and profit. The actual interest rate
of installment sales contract signed between Geeya Technology
and Nanchong Hongye is 17.34%, which is far higher than the loan
interest rate of the bank and the financing revenue obtained is far
more than the contract price [5].
According to the administrative punishment decision of China
Securities Regulatory Commission, the punishment for fraud is
only a fine of 600000 yuan for Geeya Technology, a total of 900,000
yuan for Zhou Xuhui, who is acted as the person in charge directly
responsible and the actual controller; the amount of fine for the
rest of the personnel involved in forging financial data is less than
500,000 yuan.
Compared with the price paid by fraud, the benefits of fraud to
individuals and enterprises make Geeya technology desperate. The
punishment, which should have been "negative utility", has become
"positive utility" in disguise.
(2) When the total profit of collusion is far greater than the cost
of collusion, the probability of collusion is high; when the profit of
collusion obtained by the entrusted auditor is far greater than the
cost of collusion, the probability of collusion is high.
The signing accountants of Geeya Technology have been en-
gaged in continuous auditing for many years, such as Zou Junmei
and Cheng Jin and their audit fees are significantly higher than the
market average [6]. However, after the fraud cases were exposed,
only the accounting firms were given a warning and fined 2.7 mil-
lion yuan; the punishment for individuals was also relatively low
and the penalty for the directly responsible personnel was less than
500,000 yuan [7].
At this stage, the punishment of audit collusion is mild and the
revenue obtained after breaking the law far exceeds the cost of vio-
lation, which has become an important reason for audit collusion.
5 MEASURES TO REDUCE THE RISK OF
CORPORATE FRAUD BASED ON THE CASE
OF GEEYA TECHNOLOGY FRAUD
5.1 Enterprise Level
The motivation of corporate fraud mainly comes from the fact that
the revenue obtained by fraud far exceeds the cost of fraud. On the
other hand, it is difficult for external regulators to find fraud, so we
can start from these two aspects.
Increase the cost of corporate fraud and set progressive Punish-
ment [6]. Different levels of punishment should be set from the
administrative, economics and legal perspectives to make all per-
sonnel aware of their legal responsibilities, abide by professional
ethics and improve their sense of social responsibility. At the same
time, the improvement of enterprise value comes from the trust of
investors and consumers to a certain extent. After the disclosure of
corporate fraud, if the reputation loss of the enterprise and the top
management is heavy, the probability of fraud can be reduced from
the subjective level.
Improve the enterprise salary system. If there are interests, fraud
may occur. When the distribution of interests is unreasonable or the
assessment mechanism attaches too much importance to business
performance, it may lead to fraud motivation.
The traditional profit distribution mode is more likely to breed
fraud, while the anonymity and openness of blockchain technology
can protect the privacy of personnel and reduce the probability of
fraud. At the same time, due to the hidden nature of the blockchain
and Smart Contract, the reward reporting function can be easily
produced. When the masses have no real evidence to show that a
company has the possibility of fraud, funds can be injected into the
reward fund pool and the reward can be obtained proportionally
if the report is successful and the reward fund can be traced by
using blockchain technology. The increasing number of people
who believe that there is fraud in enterprises gradually makes the
reward fund pool accumulate rich rewards to encourage those who
have the evidence of fraud to report.
5.2 Auditor Level
Improve the independence of auditors. Geeya Technology has been
cooperating with BDO China Shu Lun Pan Certified Public Ac-
countants for five consecutive years and its signing accountant has
been reappointed for five consecutive years. To a certain extent, its
independence is affected by the long term of office. Therefore, from
the perspective of pre engagement, enterprises may be required
to compulsorily rotate the auditors they employ or even the audit
firms that provide audit services, so as to improve the indepen-
dence of auditors to a certain extent and reduce the possibility of
abandoning independence and choosing collusion.
Increase the cost of the auditor’s non-compliance. In the case of
Geeya Technology fraud, after the collusion between the auditors
and the enterprise is exposed, the cost of non-compliance is rela-
tively low. Therefore, from the perspective of post engagement, we
375
IPEC2021, April 14–16, 2021, Dalian, China Shali Liu
can start from improving the cost of non-compliance, such as the
bargaining power of the accounting firm, the professional qualifi-
cation of the auditors and the restrictions on future development
of the industry, so as to improve the accountability system [8]. It
urges auditors to reduce the probability of collusion on the subjec-
tive level under the tendency of pursuing maximum interests after
considering the opportunity cost.
Under the traditional audit model, the entrusted auditors, who
subjectively underestimating the possibility and consequences of
the future collusion after it is disclosed, may have a fluke mentality
and choose to collude. However, under the blockchain audit model,
it is difficult to tamper with the transaction records of a certain
node through collusion. In general, a single node is protected by the
hashing algorithm, unless there is more than "51%" of computing
power attack; at the same time, if a block needs to be modified, it
needs to verify the block generated from the block, which costs a
lot [9], [10]. It is difficult to tamper with Transactions unless they
are recorded "erroneously" in the up-chain stage. In addition, the
party who records information correctly can obtain digital currency
reward, thus reducing the motivation of modifying block records.
Therefore, the application of blockchain technology audit can, to a
certain extent, reduce the probability of auditors choosing collusion
from an objective level.
6 SUMMARY
Based on the game theory and combined with the case of Geeya
Technology, the analysis of the various influencing factors of the
domestic enterprises’ financial fraud and auditor collusion through
game theory leads to a consistent conclusion: the probability of
fraud or collusion between enterprises and auditors mainly comes
from the game between benefits and costs, which is consistent
with the basic assumptions of game theory; under the blockchain
audit model, the existence of competition mechanism and incen-
tive mechanism makes the probability of fraud undetected tends
to zero. In view of this conclusion, it would be a good choice to in-
crease the cost of non-compliance and reasonably use the incentive
mechanism to reduce the probability of fraud or collusion.
REFERENCES
[1] Fu J P. Presumption and Governance analysis of Audit Collusion. Finance &
Accounting Communications, 2020, 841(5): 125-128, 133. (in Chinese)
[2] Deng Xiaodong, Li Fang. Financial Fraud Case Study of "Jinya Technology" –
Based on the GONE theory of fraud.Jiangsu Business Theory,2019(10):111-114.
[3] Luan Fugui, Tian Liyuan.Game Analysis of whistleblower, Company and Audi-
tor – A Study based on whistleblower Protection System .Audit and economic
research,2017,32(01):38-48.
[4] Fan Bin, LI Yin. Block Chain and Accounting, Auditing. Journal of Finance and
Accounting, 2018, 822(2): 39-43.
[5] Yuan Yong, WANG Feiyue. Development Status and Prospect of Block chain
Technology. Journal of Automation, 2016, 42(4): 481-494.
[6] Niu Yiheng. Research on Motivation and Governance of Financial Fraud in Listed
Companies – Based on the common Perspective of Fraud risk Factor Theory and
Game Theory.Finance and Accounting Newsletter, 2020(12): 99-103.
[7] Jin Lei. Motivation analysis and Case Enlightenment of Jinya Technology Finan-
cial Fraud based on GONE Theory.Heilongjiang Bayi Agricultural Reclamation
University,2018.
[8] Wang Jiaqi. A Case Study of Lixin’s Failed Audit of Jinya Technology. Hunan
University,2018.
[9] Meng Binglan. Analysis of Accounting Fraud and Supervision based on Dynamic
Game. Academic Forum, 2016, 39(9): 59-62, 72.
[10] Zhang Yue-ling, Wang Xiaojing. Analysis of networked Audit Framework in the
Blockchain Technology Environment. Finance and Accounting Newsletter, 2019,
804(4): 82-86.
376
	Abstract
	1 Case Background of Geeya Technology Company Limited
	2 The Basic Assumptions of Game Theory
	3 Game Analysis of Fraud
	3.1 Game Premise Assumption
	3.2 Expected Utility of Game Participants
	3.3 Game Analysis
	3.4 Game Analysis Conclusion
	4 Game Analysis of Geeya Technology Fraud Cases
	5 Measures to Reduce the Risk of Corporate Fraud Based on the Case of Geeya Technology Fraud
	5.1 Enterprise Level
	5.2 Auditor Level
	6 Summary
	References