Security model of mobile online games
Security Model of Mobile Online Games 
 
LIU Jia 
School of Humanities 
Jiangxi University of Finance and Economics 
Nanchang, China 
wishbaibai@126.com 
 
 
Abstract—This paper made a detailed analysis on the 
characteristics of mobile online games and pointed that 
security is one of the most important things which the games 
operators should focus on. There are several fields of the 
security problems, the communicate security would be the 
most important one. In the authors’ opinion, the communicate 
security could be effectively improved through crypto system, 
then the benefit of the players could be protected and also the 
justification of the game. In order to achieve security, a data 
crypto communication mechanism is developed through the 
symmetric secret key algorithm and asymmetric secret key 
algorithm collaborative approach. The authors also designed a 
model of security games. Be convenient to design, refresh, 
maintain and high reusability are the advantages of this model.  
Keywords- Mobile Online Games; Communication Security; 
Crypto System; Model 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
The number of cell phone users in China has got half a 
billion and this number is keeping increasing with a high 
speed these years. It brings a huge commercial opportunity to 
the mobile operators, value-added services providers, mobile 
commerce providers and mobile equipment providers. 
In the sight of value-added service providers, the number 
of them is big, so they have to face the drastic competition. 
All the SP want to get more profits by providing applications 
and services which could attract more mobile users. 
The mobile online games has got a field in the entire 
mobile network applications these years, it will also develop 
fast in the coming times. 
The online game is a kind of recreational games with the 
interactive form. The online games provide integrated 
function to the players, including user registering, interaction, 
instantaneity, long-term data preserving and other kinds of 
value-added services. The traditional online games generally 
base on Internet and PC. The bandwidth of the Internet and 
function of PC today could ensure the users to get virtual and 
aural shock through online gaming. 
Which is different from Internet and PC online games, 
the client of mobile online games is planted in the cell 
phones or PDA and also other mobile equipments. Mobile 
users could do interaction with other players at any time and 
place with their mobile equipment. 
The development of mobile online game is in a primary 
step phase now. Under the condition of GPRS or CDMA 
mobile network nowadays, the speed of data transporting has 
been a main problem which limiting the development of 
mobile online games. However, with the application of 3G 
networks and the refreshment and development of 
equipments, these limitations would be removed at last. 
After all, it is a huge market, for the number of mobile 
users is much bigger than that of PC owners. The huge 
market is worth to research and quest for SP and scholars. 
II. CHARACTERISTICS OF MOBILE ONLINE GAMES 
A. Characteristics of Online Games 
Mobile online games have some features same with 
traditional online games which are different from stand-alone 
games. They are interaction, value-adding, security and 
operation. 
Interaction is the most important difference between 
stand-alone games and online games. In the stand-alone 
games, there is only one player who participates the game, 
what the players play with are programs which were 
programmed beforehand, the game model cannot be changed 
and also the things would happen during the game. There is 
no random thing, so the players may feel lonely. However, in 
the online games, due to the interaction, the communication 
between players is inevitable, one player is always affected 
by other players, then the unpredictability is improved and 
also the interesting. In addition, the interaction between 
players is similar with the interaction between human beings. 
Men are animals with social, we need interaction, and online 
games provide it. 
Value-Adding is another difference between the two 
kinds of games. Game sellers do not provide other service 
but sell the game software in one time in traditional stand-
alone games. But the online games are different. Value-
Adding, which means the game operators gain profits 
through providing several kinds of value-added services. 
There are a lot of games who announcing they are free of 
charge, which get large profits by the value-added services. 
Players who buy the services gain more advantage and 
dominances compared with other players. 
Security is the communication security, privacy security, 
service security and fair gaming which should be provided in 
the online games. Most of the online games put security 
system in the progress of data transmission between the 
client and server, like encryption mechanism, accessing 
controls and so on, due to the online games are using the 
insecure Internet. Although the security is the thing should 
___________________________________ 
978-1-61284-840-2/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE  
  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:45:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
be insured by the operators, not all the operators do enough 
in this place. Traditional stand-alone games do not use 
networks, so they do not need security service either. 
Operation means that the online games call for the 
operating system. Dealing with stand-alone games, you can 
get profits just by developing the game and selling the 
software copy. However, an online game calls for long time 
operating by a operating organization, responsible for the 
publicizing, marketing, operating management, maintaining, 
upgrading and value-added managements after the game 
developed. 
B. Advantages of Mobile Online Games 
Compared to the PC online games, mobile online games 
have the advantages of mobility, free of installing and 
fairness. 
Mobility means that players are free of the limitation of 
time and space, and they can join the mobile network and 
play with others anywhere. This is much more convenient 
than the PC online games. Most online games which based 
on Internet using PC client generally can not be movable. 
Free of installation is another advantage of mobile online 
games. After the game software is downloaded through the 
mobile network, then the game runs without installation. 
Especially the games developed by J2ME technique, which 
is free of installation and also has the strong advantage of 
cross-platform, because of the huge market share of cell 
phones using JAVA. 
The fairness means the players could gain more fairness 
form mobile online games than the Internet games. Internet 
games are mature today, but for the popularity of the hacking 
software, fairness has been exiled in most online games, 
players are harmed and operators lose profits. However, 
there are fewer people know the techniques of games based 
on mobile network, hacking programs against a mobile game 
would be hard to achieve. Certainly, the situation may 
change with the mobile online games developing. Therefore, 
operators should concern about the cheating and anti-
cheating. 
C. Disadvantages of Mobile Online Games 
Certainly, disadvantages exist in the mobile online games: 
the small clients’ screens, discommodious to handle, clients’ 
low managing capability and poor security. 
One of the disadvantages limiting the development of 
mobile online games is the clients’ screen are small. 
Although screens of mobile phones are larger and larger, 
compared to the 17 or 19 inches PC screens, they are too 
small. People who have born in the 1970s always dislike 
these small screen games. 
Discommodious to handle is also a complication. The 
handle of mobile online games mostly rely on the cell phone 
keyboard, but most of cell phones’ press are small and 
compact arranged, makes the cell phones cannot suit games 
with high instant. 
The clients’ lower capability is a problem which cannot 
be ignored. The data processing capability of cell phones is 
not worth mentioning comparing with PC. Due to the lower 
capability, most mobile online games cannot be as large and 
luxuriance as PC games. And the data calculation in the 
games should also simple as possible, which also limits the 
interesting. 
Poor security is a severe problem in the mobile online 
games’ operating [1]. Because data transmission is processed 
through mobile network, player may lose their trust in the 
game if no safety mechanism is provided. Player gains no 
benefits without fair gaming. From this point, mobile online 
games’ developers and operators should insure the security 
of the games. 
III. MOBILE ONLINE GAMES SECURITY PROBLEMS 
Security problems in mobile online games, which are 
also called cheating problems, are not common nowadays, 
but can be severer with the increasing number of people who 
know the technology of mobile online games. 
In practice, that players’ data is deciphered and that 
virtual items is stolen have appeared. Operators should pay 
attention to these problems. 
Most security problems could be specified to these 
species: 
First: plug-in software using. Using a program, which 
can send dictates substituting players while playing mobile 
online games to gain better outcome in the games. Although 
not all the cell phones could run paralleled programs, there 
are more and more phones can do it. 
Second: BUG attack. Sometimes players can get 
improper benefits using bugs of the game program. 
Third: cooperation cheating. These problems commonly 
happen in the chess online games. For example, one man 
who has two cell phones could take part in one chess game 
with his two phones, gain double information, and then get a 
higher winning rate. 
Fourth: passwords stealing. While logging on the games, 
players type the passwords first. One can steal others’ virtual 
items by stealing passwords. 
Certainly, there are still other security issues. These 
problems’ appearing calls for countermeasures form 
operators. 
Common countermeasures include anti-cheating 
mechanisms, security detection mechanisms and security 
management mechanisms. 
Setting up anti-cheating mechanisms is to nip in the bud. 
For example, checking users’ identity and doing data 
transmission in crypto manners could do some effects. 
Setting up security detection mechanisms may help 
operators monitor the behavior of players and detect whether 
there is abnormity in the games. If there is abnormity, 
operators will take countermeasures according to the 
information of abnormity. 
Mechanism of security management includes users’ 
security management and the operators’ security 
management [2]. On the one hand, players’ awareness on 
security and anti-stealing should be improved. On the other 
hand, to avoid stealing and message missing, the operators’ 
interior data management systems should also be improved. 
Here the authors focus on the anti-cheating mechanisms. 
This paper tries to get data transmission security and fair-
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:45:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
gaming by ensuring safe transmission between users and 
server with crypto mechanisms [3]. 
IV. WORKING FLOW OF CRYPTO MECHANISM 
Encrypting is a good way to ensure the data transmission 
security [4]. Common crypto mechanisms include symmetry 
secret key encryption and asymmetry secret key encryption 
[5]. The symmetry secret key crypto mechanism has higher 
operation speed. However, the key security cannot be 
ignored, for the secret key is easy to be stolen in the process 
of transmission. The asymmetry secret key encryption, 
which has a better security with its double secret key [6], 
however, gets a low operation speed, especially in the 
condition of large amount of data need to be encrypted, 
whose operation time would be terrible. 
A relatively effective answer would make the best use of 
these two mechanisms and overcome their defects [7]. That 
is, transfer a symmetry secret key using asymmetry 
algorithm before the communicate data transferred with the 
algorithm of symmetry [8]. 
With this idea, a crypto mechanism can be used in mobile 
online games could be developed, which has two phases, 
called handshake phase and communication phase. 
A. Handshake Phase 
The main purpose of handshake phase is setting up 
connection between sever and client, affirming each other’s 
identity, and confirming the symmetry secret key which 
would be used in communication phase [9] [10]. 
Steps of handshake phased may like this: 
• Secret key producing program and encrypting 
/decryption program start up with a player starts 
mobile online games in his phone. 
• Cell phone sends request for communication and sets 
up communication channels. 
• Server receives the request. 
• Server produces a pair of secret keys randomly. 
These keys are corresponding to a certain asymmetry 
secret key algorithm’s private key and public key. 
The authors name them Sprivate-S and SPublic-S. 
• Server sends Public-S to the client. 
• Client receives Public-S. 
• Client produces a pair of secret keys randomly, these 
keys are used as a certain asymmetry algorithm’s 
private key and public key, here named as CPravite-
S and CPublic-S. 
• CPublic-S is encrypted by the client using 
asymmetry algorithm and corresponding server 
public key SPublic-S, then is sent to server. 
• Information received is decrypted by the server 
using SPrivate-S, then the client public key CPublic-
S is obtained by server. 
• A symmetry secret key called Sym-S that would be 
used for symmetry secret key algorithm is randomly 
generated by server. 
• Server encrypts its identity certification with 
SPrivate-S, then encrypts the encrypted information, 
Sym-S and certification with CPublic-S, and then 
sends them to Client. 
• After client receives information from server, the 
information is decrypted by CPrivate-S. Then the 
encrypted certification information is decrypted by 
SPublic-S. By comparing the two decrypted 
certificated information, server identity is recognized 
and Sym-S is saved. 
• Client encrypts username and passwords entered by 
user with Sym-S. The encrypted information is 
transferred to server. 
• After the encrypted username and passwords are 
received, sever decrypts them with Sym-S, then 
check username and passwords with its user list. 
User will be allowed to log on the game once 
identity checked. 
Description of these steps can be found in Figure 1. 
 
Figure 1.  Process of Handshake phase between client and server 
This encrypting method checking both server’s and 
client’s identity, ensures the security transmission of 
symmetry secret key during communication phase. In 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:45:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
addition, the amount of information encrypted and 
transferred in this phase is small, so just to select the 
appropriate algorithm will help this phase complete within 
the tolerant time. 
Certainly, concerning the capability of clients, the length 
of the asymmetry key used in the algorithm should be 
smaller than that of the asymmetry key used in PC games. 
Therefore, these keys are relatively easy to be deciphered. 
But actually it can’t be a real big problem. The asymmetry 
secret key is generated randomly every time the player logs 
on game, then players’ online time cannot as long as the PC 
games do. Even though somebody could decipher the keys, 
players may have logged out when he got the keys. 
B. Communication Phase 
The main task of this phase is transferring encrypted data 
between server and clients using secret key Sym-S generated 
in handshake phase. 
Using of symmetric secret key encryption algorithm to 
encrypt data ensures the efficiency of data transmission and 
game running smoothly. At the same time, using of 
symmetric secret key encryption /decryption algorithm has 
no higher demand on the operating capacity of mobile 
phones. 
Clearly, the use of asymmetric key encryption algorithm 
to transfer symmetric key and the use of symmetric key 
encryption algorithm to transfer game data, not only ensure 
the security but also the game running speed. 
V. DESIGN OF MOBILE ONLINE GAMES SECURITY 
MODEL 
 
Figure 2.  Model of secure game. 
The crypto mechanism discussed above can enhance the 
security of mobile online games. But how this mechanism 
should be integrated into the mobile online games? One 
possible approach is to separate logically the encryption 
mechanism from the game running process and take the 
crypto mechanism as a component of the whole mobile 
online game system. Through logical separation, the 
encryption mechanism part and the game running process 
part can be developed separately, which makes it easier for 
developers to design a online game. According to this idea, a 
possible security can be designed as Figure 2. 
In fact, it is a hierarchical model. 
The Physical Layer in Figure 2 actually is not the part of 
mobile online games. This layer is in the mobile 
communication devices (such as a cell phone), which is 
responsible for the data form upper layer to provide 
communication support. 
The main function of Communication Layer is to make 
identity authentication and provide secure data 
communication between the server and the client with the 
encryption mechanism described in Fig.1. Data form the 
upper layer will be encrypted in this layer and sent to the 
lower layer. Data from the lower layer will be decrypted and 
sent to the upper layer. Because of the existence of this layer, 
the secure communication between the server and the client 
can be ensured and the real information transferred is 
difficult to access by others. 
The top layer in Figure 2 is Application Layer, in which 
the game running process is implemented in this layer. Of 
course, for the client, the main function of this layer is to 
conduct a small number of local computing, refresh images, 
send data to the lower layer and respond to the data from the 
lower layer. For the server, the main function of this layer is 
to conduct a large number of computing, forward messages 
among multiple users, send data to the lower layer and 
respond to the data from the lower layer. 
Such a communication model has many advantages: 
First, it is easy to achieve. It has been discussed that the 
separation between the security mechanism and game 
running process can facilitate the development of the online 
games. 
Second, it is easy to maintain and update. If the game 
process (Application Layer) needs to update or a lot of 
changes, the operators could only update the Application 
Layer and leave the Communication Layer alone. 
Third, it can ensure security. The Communication Layer 
provides the encryption mechanism discussed in Fig.1, 
which can ensure the secure communication, prevent the 
leakage of personal information, protect the user passwords 
and safeguard the virtual goods in the games. 
Fourth, it can protect the fairness of the online games. 
For the games without encryption mechanism, it is easier for 
somebody to develop a cheating program to simulate 
information from games client [11]. But in this model, if a 
person wants to develop some plug-in software, then he has 
to overcome the obstacles of encryption mechanism. So, this 
model can prevent cheating to a certain extent. 
Clearly, it is a good model. It can be extended and have a 
high reusability. In addition, this model is easy to manage, 
user-friendly, and able to provide secure communication. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:45:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
Through analyzing features of mobile online games and 
its security problems, this paper designed a model, which can 
be used on safety mobile online games by using encryption 
technology. The technology of encryption and decryption are 
the kernel of the model. Using asymmetry secret key 
algorithm transfers symmetry secret key, so that secure data 
communication is provided by using symmetry secret key 
and its algorithm. 
This model is convenient to achieve and easy to manage 
and maintain. In addition users’ communication security in 
online games can be ensured by it. Certainly, during the 
initial stages of research, the authors did not bring entity 
system suitable to the model. Therefore, the achievement of 
the system, what disadvantages will be discovered while the 
system runs and how to perfect it will be the research focus 
in the future. 
 
[1] Anderson. R. "How to cheat at the lottery," Proceedings of Annual 
Computer Security Applications Conference. 1999. 
[2] Yan, J.J., Blackwell. "The memorability and security of passwords – 
some empirical results," Computer Laboratory, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge, Technical Report No.500. 2000. 
[3] Bruce Schneier. "Applied Cryptograghy, Second edtion: Protocols, 
Algorithms, and Source Code in C (cloth)," John Wiley & Sons inc. 
1996. 
[4] Apostolopoulos, George, Peris, Vinod, Saha, Debanjan. "Transport 
Layer Security: How Much Does It Really Cost," Proceedings - IEEE 
INFOCOM.  No2, pp: 717-725. 1999. 
[5] Chou, Wesley. "Inside SSL: The Secure Sockets Layer Protocol," IT 
Professional. vol4, pp: 47-52. 2002. 
[6] Gutmann, Peter. "Simplifying Public Key Management," Computer, 
vol37, pp: 101-103, 2004. 
[7] Singh, Kehar. "Optical Encryption Techniques For Data Security," 
Proceedings of SPIE - The International Society for Optical 
Engineering,  vol4829, pp: 419-420, 2003. 
[8] Gertner, Yael, Kannan, Sampath, Malkin, Tal, Reingold, Omer, 
Viswanathan, Mahesh. "Relationship Between Public Key Encryption 
And Oblivious Transfer," Annual Symposium on Foundations of 
Computer Science – Proceedings, pp: 325-335, 2000. 
[9] Fujisaki, Eiichiro, Okamoto, Tatsuaki. "How To Enhance The 
Security Of Public-key Encryption At Minimum Cost," 
Communications and Computer Sciences, vol E83-A(1), pp: 24-32, 
2000. 
[10] Perlman, Radia. "Overview Of PKI Trust Models," IEEE Network,  
vol13, pp: 38-43, 1999. 
[11] Yong Gyu Joo, So Young Sohn. "Structural equation model for 
effective CRM of digital content industry," Expert Systems with 
Applications, vol34, pp: 63-71, 2008. 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:45:03 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.