Blockchain Based Spectrum Sensing: A Game-Driven Behavior Strategy
20
20
 I
E
E
E
 9
th
 J
oi
nt
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l I
nf
o
rm
at
io
n
 T
ec
hn
ol
og
y 
an
d 
A
rt
if
ic
ia
l I
nt
el
lig
en
ce
 C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
(I
T
A
IC
) 
| 9
78
-1
-7
28
1-
52
44
-8
/2
0/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
20
 I
E
E
E
 | 
D
O
I:
 1
0.
11
09
/IT
A
IC
49
86
2.
20
20
.9
33
89
14
ITAIC 2020 (ISSN 2693-2865)
Blockchain Based Spectrum Sensing: A Game- 
Driven Behavior Strategy
Pei L v1,2 ,Hangsheng Zhao1 ,Jianzhao Zhang2 
1. Nanjing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Nanjing, China 
2. The Sixty-third Research Institute, National University of Defense Technology, Nanjing, China 
lvpei_1123@163.com, zhaohs@njupt.edu.cn, jianzhao63s@nudt.edu.cn 
Corresponding Author: Hangsheng Zhao Email: zhaohs@njupt.edu.cn
Abstract—Spectrum sensing is an important step of 
Dynamic Spectrum Access (DSA). However, the existing 
sensing technology are limited by the scarcity of sensing 
nodes, the narrow sensing range, and the security issues. In 
this paper, Crowd Sensing (CS) is used to collect sensed data 
with a large number of mobile devices equipped with sensors 
to ensure reliability and sensing range. In order to solve 
single point of failure caused by the vulnerability of the cluster 
in CS, we used the characteristics of blockchain (i.e. de­
centralization and de-trust) to ensure the security and 
correctness of the spectrum trading process. Specifically, a 
Blockchain Based Spectrum Sensing (BBSS) system is 
proposed, in which requester recruit sensing workers to 
involve in spectrum sensing, sensing workers obtain benefits 
by participating in spectrum sensing and miner verifies and 
packages transactions into the blockchain. In particular, the 
recruitment and sensing worker�s response is modeled as a 
Reward-Sensing-time game, and the strategy of requester is 
the total reward R, and the strategy of sensing worker is the 
sensing time t . We proved that both of them can adopt 
strategies to maximize their own benefits. Simulation results 
show that requester benefit increases with the growing 
number of sensing workers, but the amplification is smaller 
and smaller. A certain sensing worker who adopted strategy 
can achieve larger benefit compared with random allocation 
of sensing time when the number of sensing workers is 
smaller (less than 500) in the system.
Keywords—crowd sensing; dynamic spectrum access; 
specrtum sensing; blockchain
I. In t r o d u c t io n
With the large-scale deployment of 5G network, a large 
number of devices are connected to the Internet of Things 
(IoT), resulting in an increasing scarcity of spectrum 
resources [1]. Dynamic Spectrum Access (DSA) is widely 
recognized as an effective way to improve the spectrum 
utilization [2], and spectrum sensing is an important step of 
DSA. However, there exist three problems to be solved in 
real-world scenarios. Firstly, the sensing results of 
individual user are unreliable due to fading and shadowing 
effects [3]. Secondly, individual user is limited by the 
sensing range, which reduces the spatial coverage of 
spectral data. Thirdly, individual user is vulnerable to
This work was supported by the National Natural Science 
Foundation of China under Grant 61471395 and 61801497.
malicious attacks which w ill result in the failure of sensing 
task [4]. Therefore, the key to the practical application of 
DSA is to solve the reliability, validity and security issues 
of individual user sensing.
Crowd Sensing (CS) [5], as an emerging sensing 
technology, has received wide attention recently. CS 
utilizes a large number of mobile devices equipped with 
sensors (such as smartphones, tablets, vehicle-equipped 
wireless devices, etc.) to opportunistically sense and upload 
data to the Sensing Task Publisher (requester), which 
receives the sensed data and distributes rewards to the 
mobile device (collectively referred to as the sensing 
worker). CS is characterized by a large number of sensing 
workers and high mobility. On the one hand, multi-worker 
participation ensures the reliability and security (i.e. less 
likely to be attacked). On the other hand, utilizing the 
mobility of sensing worker can greatly improve the scope 
of sensing [6]. However, most of the existing CS 
technologies rely on the cluster to process the sensed data 
and generate the perception results. The cluster may suffer 
from malicious nodes attacks which cause single point of 
failure [7]. In addition, since the sensed data contains 
privacy data such as its own geographic location 
information, it requires all the sensing workers involved in 
CS trust each other [8].
Blockchain is a growing list of encrypted records, 
referred as blocks usually [9]. Blockchain enables the nodes 
in the chain to implement untrusted peer-to-peer 
transactions by utilizing data encryption, time stamps, 
distributed consensus and incentive mechanisms, so as to 
solve the problems of high trust, low efficiency and unsafe 
data storage in the centralized system [10]. With the rapid 
growth of research and application of blockchain, it is 
considered as the fifth generation of Internet disruptive 
technology after mobile Internet [11]. To be brief, 
blockchain can be used as a distributed, open, and 
unmodifiable ledger [12~13], which is a decentralized 
accounting system consisting of credit records and the 
liquidation of credit records in essence [14]. Blockchain 
enables distributed recording of data and storage [15]. This 
technology enables each node to record and read public 
accounts, and all the nodes jointly monitor and ensure its 
correctness.
978-1-7281-5244-8/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE 899
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:10:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
In view of these advantages, a large number of scholars 
have introduced blockchain technology into spectrum 
management. H. Zhang considered the applicability of 
blockchain in CBRS (Citizens Band Radio Service) 
spectrum sharing system [16]. He believed that utilizing the 
advantage of de-trust and decentralization of blockchain 
can help reduce the transaction cost in CBRS through 
automating the process of signing contracts, agent and data 
exchange. Kotobi and Bilen presented a blockchain-based 
spectrum sharing protocol [17]. In this paper, primary user 
auctions the idle spectrum to the secondary user, who earns 
access to the spectrum by paying encrypted currency. Both 
auctions and payments are recorded in the blockchain. Like 
bitcoins, encrypted currencies can be obtained by 
exchanging traditional legal currencies or helping maintain 
blockchains. The simulation results show that the 
performance of the proposed protocol is better than that of 
the traditional spectrum sharing protocol in moderate and 
severe fading scenarios. [18] puts forward the concept of 
spectrum sensing as a service, which aims to implement 
spectrum sensing by recruiting helper nodes. Recruitment 
information is published through smart contract running on 
the blockchain. The helper nodes are rewarded after 
completing the sensing task and the blockchain is updated 
through miners. The simulation results show that the 
algorithm can effectively identify malicious attacks and 
motivate more helper nodes to participate in spectrum 
sensing on the basis of guaranteeing system benefits.
Existing research mostly focused on reducing 
transaction costs in spectrum sharing systems [16~17] by 
taking advantage of the de-centralization and de-trusting 
characteristics of blockchain without considering the 
benefits of secondary users. Some assumed that the helper 
nodes randomly choose whether to participate in spectrum 
sensing or not while ignoring the intelligence of the helper 
nodes themselves [18], i.e. intelligently choose whether to 
participate and how to participate in spectrum sensing. In 
this paper, we combined blockchain and CS to model 
spectrum sensing. To be specific, it is modeled as a 
Reward-Sensing-time game, in which requester and 
sensing worker strategically choose sensing reward and 
sensing time to maximize their own utilities.
II. Bl o c k c h a in  Ba s e d  Sp e c t r u m  Se n s in g
Considering the spectrum sensing system shown in Fig. 
1, the Blockchain Based Spectrum Sensing (BBSS) system 
mainly consists of six parts: spectrum holder, requester, 
sensing worker, miner, smart contract and blockchain. 
Spectrum holder has the ownership and priority over 
spectrum, it has the incentive to rent the idle spectrum to 
get benefits. Requester can bid the spectrum once it 
accurately knows the state of spectrum holder (occupied or 
idle). Therefore, requester acts both as a claimant for 
broadcasting spectrum sensing tasks and a potential tenant 
for spectrum holder's idle spectrum. Sensing worker (such 
as smartphone, tablet, vehicle-equipped wireless device, 
etc.) accepts the sensing task published by requester, and 
gets certain reward after completing the task through its 
own sensor. By utilizing many sensing workers and their 
mobility, the resolution and coverage of spectrum sensing 
can be greatly improved. Smart contract is the credential 
for requester to publish a sensing task, which contains 
information about the sensing task, such as task reward, 
upper and lower bounds of detection probability and false 
alarm probability, and spectrum bidding information. 
Miner plays a role in verifying the quality of sensed data, 
broadcasting and packaging completed transactions in the 
system. Miner is not specific in the system. Miner should 
get a solution to a mathematical problem by trial and error. 
The first miner to get an approximate solution will have the 
opportunity to obtain the right of accounting and become 
miner o f this transaction. The proof of work (trial and error) 
consumes a lot of energy, so miner o f this transaction will 
receive a certain reward when it completes its task, and the 
remaining miners who are not miner of this transaction will 
also receive a small reward to motivate them to participate 
in accounting. Blockchain acts as a ledger to store the 
transaction information between the requester, sensing 
workers and miner.
Thanks to the de-centralized structure of the blockchain 
(each miner in the chain has the opportunity to participate 
in accounting), BBSS helps alleviate the single point of 
failure of the cluster in traditional CS. In addition, each of 
the miners in the blockchain owns a copy of the complete 
transaction information to improve the stability. Moreover, 
the transaction information on the blockchain is encrypted 
by public-private key pairs, and its reverse decryption is 
almost impossible, which can greatly improve the 
information security. In BBSS systems, smart contracts are 
used to handle requester's sensing requests instead of 
centralized server. Smart contracts are essentially 
unmodifiable code running on a blockchain. Once the 
preset conditions are met, smart contracts will be 
automatically executed. This mechanism also helps ensure 
the rights of the sensing workers, such as preventing 
malicious behavior. (i.e. the requester receives a perception 
result and refuses to pay a fee)
Blockchain based spectrum sensing is accomplished 
through the following five steps:
step 1: The requester publishes sensing tasks in the form 
of smart contracts. The requester specifies the Service 
Level Agreements (SLA) in the smart contract, which
900
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:10:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
includes the total reward for the task (i.e. the total reward 
shared by all sensing workers), the sensed data quality 
requirements, lower and upper bounds of the detection 
probability and the false alarm probability.
step 2: The sensing workers look up the sensing tasks 
and report their own sensing strategy. Sensing strategy 
mainly includes the level (such as sensing time, sampling 
rate, etc.) of the sensing task. On the one hand, long sensing 
time and high sampling rate require more energy and 
should be paid more. On the other hand, the sensing worker 
should be paid more than the cost of itself.
step 3: Miner becomes miner o f this transaction in way 
of proof of work and broadcasts the results to the sensing 
workers. Sensing workers participating in the task upload 
the data by calling the specific functions of the smart 
contract after completing the task. The data upload process 
requires a fee for the sensing worker, which in fact is pre­
existing in the blockchain before the sensing task is 
accepted. This mechanism can effectively mitigate DDoS 
(Distributed Denial of Service) and false reporting attacks 
on malicious workers [19]. (miner o f this transaction 
hereinafter referred to as miner).
step 4: Miner verifies the sensed data and packages 
transactions into blockchain. Miner processes the sensed 
data according to the pre-set SLA in smart contract. 
Processing the sensed data mainly includes generating the 
sensing results, such as using the principle of large numbers 
to determine whether the spectrum is occupied or not (i.e. 
i f  more than half of the sensing workers think the spectrum 
is occupied, the spectrum is occupied). Miner packaged the 
transaction into the blockchain and received a certain 
reward. Overall, the sensing worker is rewarded for sensing 
high-precision data, and the miner is rewarded for 
packaging transactions, both of which benefit from the 
BBSS system. In addition, both benefits of them are 
unmodified code in smart contracts, reward distribution 
does not require third-party participation, so the BBSS 
system can encourage more sensing workers and miners to 
join in.
step 5: The requester accepts the perceived results and 
decides whether to continue the task. Once the requester 
accepts the perceived results, i f  it is satisfied with the 
perceived results, it can choose to terminate the task and 
recover the remaining remuneration and broadcast the 
termination decision to all miners and sensing workers, 
which stop working immediately upon receiving the 
command. I f  the requester is not satisfied with the 
perceived results, the requester can choose to continue the 
task and continue to receive the perceived results.
The flow chart of BBSS is shown in Fig.2 (with some 
details omitted and only the important elements of the 
system included).
III. Be h a v io r  St r a t e g y  Ba s e d  o n  Re w a r d ­
Se n s in g -Tim e  Ga m e
Considering BBSS system discussed in Section II. First,
Fig. 2. flow chart of BBSS
a requester with spectrum access requirements publishes a 
sensing task in the form of smart contract with a total 
reward of R > 0. Then, the ith sensing worker swi of set 
SW = *swj , j  = 1,2, ...n) reports its strategy t i (sensing 
time) based on its own benefit. Specially, t i = 0 means 
swi does not participate in this sensing task. swi 's sensing 
cost is t i x ki , where ki denotes swi 's unit cost. Then 
swi ' s sensing benefit ui can be expressed as:
Uj = R - t i x k j (3.1)
^jew #j
The first item in the formula is expressed as the partial 
reward of swi , the second item denotes sensing cost, and 
the difference between them is expressed as sw%s benefit. 
Notice that ki E K,K = {p&,p2, — Pi}. We use rij  denotes 
number of sensing workers with cost , so we have n = 
'Z) j eK nj . Furthermore, we assume that the sensing worker 
with the same unit cost adopts the same strategy.
In this system, we assume that swi choose t i = 0 with 
the probability of f (R ), and t i > 0  with the probability of
1 - f m :
0
^  = [> 0
(3.2)f (R)  
i - f ( R )
f (R)  is a non-incremental function of the total reward 
R published by requester, that is, with the increase of R, 
there are more sensing workers in the system.
The benefit of requester after publishing the task and 
successfully accessing the spectrum can be written as [20]:
uQ = Xlog (1 + ZieN log(1 + f ) - R -  CMd (3.3)
The first item in the formula is the revenue of 
requester's success access to the spectrum (e.g. data 
transmission), where X is a system parameter, the log(1 + 
t{) term represents the requester’s diminishing return on 
the work of sensing worker with unit cost , and the outer 
log term reflects the requester’s diminishing return on 
sensing workers. The second item is the total reward paid 
by the requester to the sensing workers and the third item 
is the rental of the spectrum together with the fee of miner.
In this model, the goal of requester is to set the optimal 
value of R to maximize (3.3) while swt E SW intelligently 
determines the sensing time t t to maximize sensing 
benefits (3.1). This model can be modeled as a Stackelberg 
game. In particular, we refer to BBSS as Reward-Sensing­
time game. This game is divided into two phases: a)
901
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:10:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
requester releases total sensing reward R . b) swi e SW 
make its own strategy t i to maximize sensing benefits.
Therefore, in Reward-Sensing-time games, requester is 
the leader and sensing worker is the follower. Both of them 
are players. And the strategy of requester is total reward R, 
swi 's is the sensing time t i . The requester can predict the 
strategy of the sensing worker to set the optimal value of R 
to maximize its own benefits. Let t = (t&, t2, ...,tn ) as a 
strategy set for all the sensing workers, t_ i denoted as 
strategy set except swi , so t = ( t1, t2, ... , t n ) can be 
rewritten as t = (t i , t_ i ).
In the Reward-Sensing-time game, we define the Nash 
Equilibrium (NE):
Algorithm 1: Computation of the NE
1 Sort the unit costs in K, < p2 < p3 ... < p( ;
2 Kw  ^ 0 ;
3 Let j  e [1, l] be the smallest such y { =1 nk > 2 ;  
4 i ^ i + i ;
5 while j  < l and p , < nk) k
" 4 = i nk
6 if  n,  > 0 then Kw  ^  Kw  U [Pj } ;
7 i ^ i + i ;
8 end
Strategy set for all the sensing workers 
(t ] e, t ] e, ...,tn e,) is the Nash Equilibrium for the Reward­
Sensing-time game, i f  and only if, for any sensing worker 
SWj e SW satisfied:
Ui (tn e , t _e) > u i (t j , t ne) (3.4)
where t i > 0, ui is the sensing benefit defined in (3.1). 
Nash Equilibrium infers that sensing workers cannot 
increase its own benefits by changing the current strategy. 
The existence and uniqueness of the Nash Equilibrium 
enables the requester to choose R by predicting the strategy 
of the sensing worker to maximize its own benefits.
A. Behavior Strategy of  Sensing Workers
In order to study swi 's optimal strategy Bi (t_ i ), we 
calculate the derivatives of ui with respect to t i :
3 4  = _Rti + R -  j
3 t i (4j en #j )2 #j
32ui = — _ 2RY.j^N,j*i #j < 0 
3 ti (ZjEN #j )3
(3.5)
(3.6)
Notice the second derivative of ui is negative, then ui 
is convex function in t i . Therefore, Bi (t_ i ) exists and is 
unique given R and t_ i . Note that when t_ i = (0), swi can 
set Bi (t_ i ) to a small positive number, in which case, swi 
can obtain rewards close to R. As a result, we only consider 
Yij€ N ,j 9 i tj  > 0 .(i.e. at least two sensing workers 
participate in spectrum sensing). Let the first-order 
derivative to be zero, we can get:
. = lR EjeN,j*i #j —y  f
Li — J k. L,j£N,j9i Lj (3.7)
I f  (3.7) is positive, sw's optimal strategy Bi (t_ i ) = t i . 
I f  (3.7) is negative, swi choose not to participate in 
spectrum sensing. Therefore, we can get:
Bi (t_i)-
i f  R < ki Ny, j£N , j9 i  tj
lR2jeN,j'i #j
ki y j£N,j9i tj , else
(3.8)
From the above analysis, we can design Nash 
Equilibrium algorithm based on Reward-Sensing-time
(n0-1)R  ^  (n0- 1 ) ) j
game. Notice that, t0e =
Zpk€Kw nk) k ( 2/3kEKw nk) k
) ,
9 n0 ^  y pk£Kw nk ;
10 for each Pj  e Kw  do
11 ~ = (no_1)R ( i  -  (no_ 1))j  )
j  Z+kEKw nk) k ( Z+kEKw nkPk
12 end
13 PSW ^  [ i \k i e Kw } ;
14 for each i e N do
15 if  i e PSW then t0e = t j , such that ki = Pj ;
16 else t 0e = 0 ;
17 end
18 return t ne = (t ] e , t0e ,..., t ] e )
where Kw  is the cost set of sensing workers which 
participate in the sensing task.
Proof. Let n0 = \PSW\, n0 >2 ,  where PSW is the set 
of sensing workers which participate in the task. We use t 
instead of t in (3.5) and PSW instead of N. Considering
y j£N  tj  = y j£PSw t , we have:
_Rti
=TT +: — — ki = 0, i e  PSW (3.9)
(ZjEPSw #j)2 2jEPSw #j
sum all the i e PSW in (3.9), we can get:
n0R — R = y jePSw t j  • y jePSw kj  , hence, we have:
- t i =
((n0_1)R)
1jePSw L j ~ 2 je P s w  k j
(3.10)
substitute (3.10) into (3.9), and consider tj = 0 ( j  0 
PSW), we have:
(n0_1)R
j  2+kEKw nkPkV 2+kEKw nkPk
(1 —
(no_1)) j
-) (3.11)
B. Behavior Strategy o f Requester
As the leader in the Reward-Sensing-time game, 
requester can predict the strategy of the sensing worker 
after the total reward R is published. Therefore, requester 
can determine an optimal R to maximize its own benefit u0.
902
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:10:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Substituting the optimal strategy of sensing workers 
calculated by Algorithm 1 into (3.3). We can get:
u0 = Alog (1 + Slew log (l + Tj ) _ R _ Cbid (3.12)
where
<0»ii2£ ( i _  b l f  ° e K w
Z+kEKw 0kPk Z+kEKw 0kPk j  (3.13)
0 i f  f j  £ Kw
where u0 is a concave function of R_R 6 [0,&>) '  and
u0 = 0 when R = 0 , u0 goes to _rc> when R goes to 
+rc>. Hence, there exists R* to make u0 the maximum.
IV. Pe a r f o r m a n c e  Ev a l u a t io n
For the strategy based on Reward-Sensing-time Game 
discussed in Section III (hereinafter referred to as game 
strategies), we assume that the sensing worker's unit cost 
is uniformly distributed between [1, kmax ]. In addition, we 
assume that the number of sensing workers increases from 
100 to 1000 with an increment of 100 and the system 
parameter A = 10.
running time: We first evaluate the trend of running 
time with the number of sensing workers, as shown in Fig. 
3. We can see that the running time of the game strategy is 
almost linear with the number of sensing workers. For 
O(nlogn) is required to compute the classification of the 
sensing worker (i.e. whether participating in sensing or not) 
and 0(n) is required to compute the optimal strategy 
(algorithm line14-line16), so the algorithm complexity is 
O(nlogn). It is important to note that once the sensing 
worker classification is complete, the optimal strategy can 
be computed from similar expressions to improve the 
efficiency of the algorithm.
requester benefit: Fig. 4 shows the impact of number 
of sensing workers and kmax on requester benefit. We can 
see that as the number of sensing workers increases, 
requester benefit tends to increase, but the amplification is 
getting smaller and smaller. This is because, while more 
sensing workers can bring more benefits, the cost also 
increases. We can also note that when the number of 
sensing workers is the same, the higher the km a x , the 
lower the requester benefit. This is because the higher the 
km a x , the more discrete distribution of the cost set. 
According to the while loop in Algorithm1, i f  all the 
sensing workers have the same unit cost, then all the 
sensing workers w ill satisfy the loop condition and 
participate in spectrum sensing. When the unit cost 
becomes more discrete, the sensing worker has a higher 
probability of violating the loop condition, so there w ill be 
fewer sensing workers in the system, and thus the reward 
of the requester w ill be reduced.
sensing worker benefit: To study the benefit of a 
certain sensing worker in our system (we select sensing 
worker no.58, hereinafter referred to as sw58). As shown 
in Fig. 5, as more and more sensing workers join in
spectrum sensing, sw58's benefit decreases as more 
competitors participate. We also compare the benefits of 
sw58 with different strategies: in the first part of Fig. 5, the 
number of sensing workers in the system is smaller, sw58 
faces less competition, as a result, it can obtain higher 
benefit than random strategy. As the competition in the 
system increases, sensing worker is more competitive. 
Even though the worker takes the game strategy, the 
income still accounts for a small part of the total income, 
so the benefit is smaller than that of random strategy. As a 
result, game strategies are more practical with fewer 
sensing workers.
903
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:10:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
V. Co n c l u s io n
To solve the reliability, validity and security problems 
in existing spectrum sensing, Blockchain Based Spectrum 
Sensing (BBSS) system is proposed in this paper. In the 
system, the requester first publishes the sensing task in the 
form of smart contract. Thereafter, the sensing worker 
strategically decides to how to participate in spectrum 
sensing (i.e. how much time should be spent in the task). 
Finally, the miner verifies the sensed data and packages the 
transaction into a blockchain. In the BBSS system, the 
reliability and validity of spectrum sensing can be solved 
by the large number and mobility of sensing workers, while 
the security problem can be solved by the feature of smart 
contract in the blockchain. In particular, we model the 
behavior of requester and sensing worker (i.e., publishing 
sensing tasks and accepting tasks) as a strategy based on 
the Reward-Sensing-time game in which requester is the 
leader and sensing worker is the follower. Sensing worker's 
behavior strategy is sensing time t while requester's 
behavior strategy is total reward R. We proved that each of 
them has its own optimal strategy and design an effective 
algorithm to find the optimal strategy for the sensing 
workers.
Ac k n o w l e d g m e n t
This work was supported by the National Natural 
Science Foundation of China under Grant 61471395 and 
61801497.
Re f e r e n c e s
[1] F. Arat and S. Demirci, "Analysis of Spectrum Aware Routing 
Algorithms in CR Based IoT Devices," 2019 4th International 
Conference on Computer Science and Engineering (UBMK), 
Samsun, Turkey, 2019, pp. 751-756.
[2] F. Li, Y. Zhu and Y. Xu, "Dynamic Multi-channel Access in 
Wireless System with Deep Reinforcement Learning," 2020 12th 
International Conference on Advanced Computational Intelligence 
(ICACI), Dali, China, 2020, pp. 283-287.
[3] X. Li, Q. Zhu, and X. Wang, “Privacy-Aware Crowdsourced 
Spectrum Sensing and Multi-User Sharing Mechanism in Dynamic 
Spectrum Access Networks,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, 2019, pp. 
32971-32988.
[4] J. Wang et al., "Learning-Assisted Optimization in Mobile Crowd 
Sensing: A Survey," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 
vol. 15, no. 1, 2019, pp. 15-22.
[5] L. Zhang, Z. Li and X. Chen, "Incentive Mechanism Design for
Edge-Cloud Collaboration in Mobile Crowd Sensing," IEEE 
INFOCOM 2020 - IEEE Conference on Computer
Communications Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS), Toronto, 
ON, Canada, 2020, pp. 1196-1201.
[6] X. Li, C. You, S. Andreev, Y. Gong and K. Huang, "Wirelessly
Powered Crowd Sensing: Joint Power Transfer, Sensing,
Compression, and Transmission," in IEEE Journal on Selected 
Areas in Communications, vol. 37, no. 2, Feb 2019, pp. 391-406.
[7] J. Huang et al., "Blockchain-Based Mobile Crowd Sensing in 
Industrial Systems," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics, 
vol. 16, no. 10, Oct 2020, pp. 6553-6563.
[8] T. Dimitriou, "Fair and private Bitcoin rewards: Incentivizing 
participation in Crowd-sensing applications," 2020 IEEE 
International Conference on Decentralized Applications and 
Infrastructures (DAPPS), Oxford, United Kingdom, 2020, pp. 120­
125.
[9] J. Sun, X. Yao, S. Wang and Y. Wu, "Non-Repudiation Storage and 
Access Control Scheme of Insurance Data Based on Blockchain in 
IPFS," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, 2020, pp. 155145-155155.
[10] L. Xiao, D. Han, X. Meng, W. Liang and K. Li, "A Secure 
Framework for Data Sharing in Private Blockchain-Based 
WBANs," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, 2020, pp. 153956-153968.
[11] T. Kumar et al., "BlockEdge: Blockchain-Edge Framework for 
Industrial IoT Networks," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, 2020, pp. 
154166-154185.
[12] Y. Chen, H. Chen, M. Han, B. Liu, Q. Chen and T. Ren, "A Novel 
Computing Power Allocation Algorithm for Blockchain System in 
Multiple Mining Pools Under Withholding Attack," in IEEE 
Access, vol. 8, 2020, pp. 155630-155644.
[13] Y. Pang, "A New Consensus Protocol for Blockchain 
Interoperability Architecture," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, 2020, pp. 
153719-153730.
[14] M. K. Choi, C. Y. Yeun and P. H. Seong, "A Novel Monitoring 
System for the Data Integrity of Reactor Protection System Using 
Blockchain Technology," in IEEE Access, vol. 8, 2020, pp. 
118732-118740.
[15] C. Roy, S. Misra and S. Pal, "Blockchain-Enabled Safety-as-a- 
Service for Industrial IoT Applications," in IEEE Internet of Things 
Magazine, vol. 3, no. 2, June 2020, pp. 19-23.
[16] H. Zhang, S. Leng and H. Chai, "A Blockchain Enhanced Dynamic 
Spectrum Sharing Model Based on Proof-of-Strategy," ICC 2020 - 
2020 IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), 
Dublin, Ireland, 2020, pp. 1-6.
[17] K. Kotobi and S. G. Bilen, "Blockchain-enabled spectrum access in 
cognitive radio networks," 2017 Wireless Telecommunications 
Symposium (WTS), Chicago, IL, 2017, pp. 1-6.
[18] S. Bayhan, A. Zubow, P. Gawtowicz and A. Wolisz, "Smart 
Contracts for Spectrum Sensing as a Service," in IEEE Transactions 
on Cognitive Communications and Networking, vol. 5, no. 3, Sept 
2019, pp. 648-660.
[19] X. Zhang, G. Xue, R. Yu, D. Yang and J. Tang, "Keep Your 
Promise: Mechanism Design Against Free-Riding and False- 
Reporting in Crowdsourcing," in IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 
vol. 2, no. 6, Dec 2015, pp. 562-572.
[20] D. Yang, G. Xue, X. Fang and J. Tang, "Incentive Mechanisms for 
Crowdsensing: Crowdsourcing with Smartphones," in IEEE/ACM 
Transactions on Networking, vol. 24, no. 3, June 2016, pp. 1732­
1744.
904
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:10:21 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.