A Hybrid Connected Approach of Technologies to Enhance Academic Performance
A Hybrid Connected Approach
of Technologies to Enhance Academic
Performance
Sushil Kumar Mahapatra, Binod Kumar Pattanayak, and Bibudhendu Pati
Abstract The technological advancement in every filed has a great impact on educa-
tion system tomodernize the teaching and learning approach. The traditional teaching
and learning system fails to cope upwith the advancement of technology. As the tech-
nology is changing in a rapid fashion, the need of a dynamic educational system is
highly necessary that can satisfy the needof real-time learning scenario.Our proposed
learning model is a hybrid approach of the recently popular learning methodology,
i.e., case-based learning, flip learning, and gamification of courseware. This hybrid
model can satisfy the student’s expectations by driving them to face the real-world
problem with the help of cutting-edge technology such as IoT, blockchain, and
machine learning. The proposed learningmethodology is presented within a learning
management system (LMS) by exploiting the features of Internet of things (IoT). IoT
in integration with LMS enhances the real-time scenario for the learning of students.
As a result, students can face the different case studies using their critical and innova-
tive thinking. This paper also reveals the factors that influence the student’s learning
capability by utilizing IoT. This paper presents a real-time framework for enhancing
the learning and teaching methodology with the different features of the model and
its benefits of utilization.
Keywords Educational system · LMS · IoT · Blockchain · Flip learning · CBL ·
Gamification · Academic performance · Air quality index · Air pollutant
S. K. Mahapatra (B) · B. K. Pattanayak
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Siksha O Anusandhan Deemed to be
University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India
B. K. Pattanayak
e-mail: binodpattanayak@soa.ac.in
B. Pati
Department of Computer Science, Ramadevi Women’s University, Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2022
M. N. Mohanty and S. Das (eds.), Advances in Intelligent Computing and Communication,
Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems 430,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-0825-5_30
281
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-19-0825-5_30&domain=pdf
mailto:binodpattanayak@soa.ac.in
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-0825-5_30
282 S. K. Mahapatra et al.
1 Introduction
Since the evolution of Internet in late 90s, some researchers have speculated the
potential of Internet. They suggested that the Internet was not only meant for the
data sharing, but it can also be utilized for the services. Later in 1999, Kevin Aston, a
businessman and researcher in the field of supply chain optimization, first initiated the
term “Internet of Things” which can provide data sharing and services by connecting
things of the Internet [1]. Therefore, depending upon the potential of utilization of
IoT, it is defined by various names by different researchers and global IoT leading
companies as Internet of Everythings (IoE), Internet of Services (IoS), Internet of
Data (IoD), Internet of Anything (IoA), Internet of People (IoP), Internet of Signs
(IoSs), and Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) etc.
According to CISCO, a global networking company, IoE has the capability to
bring all together, i.e., people, services, data, and connected things to give a new
means to the Internet [2]. This new means to the Internet is not only capable of
creating new business opportunities but also capable of turning the information into
an intelligent actionable services.
Nowadays, the demand of automation in every field is increasing exponentially.
So the IoT along with some cutting-edge cloud services like Microsoft Azure, IBM
Node Red, and Amazon Web Services comes into picture, and the demand of these
technologies is increasing rapidly [3]. One of the researchers from the USA named
as Gartner who is leading a research and advisory company predicts that at around
27 billion devices with around 2 zettabytes of data storage will be connected to
the Internet cloud by the end of the 2025 [4]. Therefore, the key challenges for
implementing and maintaining such a huge number of IoT devices are its privacy
and security. Along with these challenges, some other challenges are scalability, trust
management, reliability, mobility, and interoperability [5].
On the other hand, pandemic-like events have recently compelled educational
policymakers to shift the educational system from face-to-face (f2f) to the virtual
mode of instruction. However, virtual courses face several problems such as a lack
of network infrastructure, network connectivity, data security and integrity, atten-
dance and class records management, and taking feedback, to name a few. Aside
from all of these elements, environmental, social, and economic indicators are also
important. The Internet of things (IoT) combined with blockchain (BC) in a learning
management system (LMS) would be a superior answer to all of the difficulties listed
above. Many academics have recently suggested that because IoT devices are small,
portable, and inexpensive, they may be used to collect data on the environment,
social, and economic backgrounds of students in various geographical locations.
The blockchain, on the other hand, maybe used in LMS to ensure data security and
integrity. LMS may also be utilized to help with IoT and BC. When combined with
IoT and BC, several instructional learning techniques such as flip learning, blended
learning, and gamification of course components can improve academic achieve-
ment in LMS. The proposed work is to deliver an effective LMS with cutting-edge
technology to enhance academic performance.
A Hybrid Connected Approach of Technologies … 283
Many studies have been carried out to determine the relationship between envi-
ronmental conditions and academic achievement [6]. Environmental factors such as
air pollution concentrations, temperature, humidity, and so on. An air pollutant in a
specific region is the primary cause of respiratory-related health issues. The influ-
ence of these contaminants, on the other hand, is producing cognitive problems in
children, which is reducing their attention levels [7]. The goal of this study is to see
how air pollution affects a student’s educational results by utilizing the Internet of
Everything (IoE) to measure their attentiveness in class. Because the influence of
ambient air quality differs from place to place, the research was carried out in several
parts of Odisha, India. This study found that high concentrations of PM10, PM2.5,
NO2, and SO2 can negatively influence a student’s cognitive response, but O3 had
no effect on cognitive response and, hence, academic achievement.
Keeping track of student attendance at VC is a challenging endeavor. Because the
students are not there in person, there are several technical options for manipulating
attendance. IoT is utilized in this suggested project to collect real-time data from
students and to track their actions during the VC. While, BC is used to prevent data
tampering as well as to ensure the integrity and dependability of the data stored [8].
The traditional teaching and learning system is unable to keep up with tech-
nological advancements. Due to the rapid evolution of technology, a hybrid LMS
is presented that incorporates lately popular learning methodologies such as case-
based learning, flip learning, and gamification [9, 10]. This hybrid system can meet
students’ expectations by forcing them to confront a dynamic challenge using cutting-
edge technology. The suggested hybrid LMS systemmakes use of IoT characteristics
to boost student motivation and learning capacity.
2 Related Works
This section describes about the recent advancement of the educational methodology
using IoT. As the technological advancement is in flow, the IoT recently gets more
attention due to its diversity in every field. Nowadays, IoT also plays a significant role
in the field of education by developing the infrastructure as well as by improving
the teaching and learning methodology. It is transforming the traditional learning
system to an interactive and intelligent learning system. IoT helps every entity of the
educational system starting from the administrator to the student as end user. It has a
significant impact on all the stakeholders of the educational system. Some researcher
has presented a model to correct the pronunciation and shape of the mouth while
learning English language using IoT gadgets [11]. The authors in [12] use the IoT
to deliver the concepts of programming language. Some researcher has developed
a learning management system (LMS) to analyze the student’s learning method
using analytics [13]. They presented a real-time case analysis model to use cloud
computing and IoT in the structure of educational resource. The authors in [14]
deliver a comparison of utilizing the IoT, cloud computing, data mining, and triple-
play for the distance mode of education. Vo et al. presented a qualitative study to
284 S. K. Mahapatra et al.
evaluate the instructors designed blended course by conducting a semi-structured
interview. Here, they have presented a content construction communication platform
as an evaluation tool [15]. In another approach, Ozqur et al. show a relationship
between different ways of thinking and computational thinking skill along with the
demographic variables. This is to predict the student’s skill in accordance with the
some variables by the help of structure equation model [16]. Magiera et al. explore
the students and teachers’ ability to explain the solution of different problems and
also express the critiques to others solutions [17]. A study was conducted by Seage
et al. to evaluate the impact of traditional science teaching and the innovative blended
learning approach over the elementary school students of lower socioeconomic class
[18].
Recently, so many researchers have been addressed to improve the attendance
system using different embedded technologies such as RFID, GPS, and Bluetooth.
All these technologies have been tested in monitoring the student’s attendance in
traditional classes for its efficiency and reliability [19]. Initially, some researcher
presented a RFID-based attendance system [20]. But the main disadvantage of RFID
is that it can be used by any person, and this system is not tamper-proof. A location-
based attendance system is proposed in [21] using GSMmodule to validate whether
an employee is present at the designated place or not. Many works have been carried
out by using face recognition system, but it requires a very precise algorithm to record
and detect the faces [22]. However, the authors in [23] introduce an iris recognition
system to record the attendance. Abubakar et al. have presented a system which uses
a finger print module based on IoT [24].
On the other hand, an effective attendance monitoring system and a good learning
management system are not enough to improve the student’s academic capability.
Some authors have identified some external factors such as environmental factors
that are influencing the student’s academic performance. Ham has investigated in the
area of California and found the inter-relation between the different air pollutants
with the test score [25]. He also revealed a close inter-dependence of AQI with the
academic performance. Carroll shows that the continuous exposure to the different
air pollutants beyond the permissible limit of the WHO could create severe health
issues and, hence, increases absenteeism in the class [26]. Hence, this would decrease
the academic performance.
3 Proposed Methods and Materials
3.1 A Hybrid LMS System
Kindly, nowadays, the flip learning in conjunction with CBL draws the attention
of many researchers. It has gained its popularity when it is used with the IoT. The
proposed LMS is presented in Fig. 1. In flip learning system [9], the course materials
are provided to the students in the form of video lectures, online lecture notes along
A Hybrid Connected Approach of Technologies … 285
Fig. 1 Proposed hybrid learning management system using flip learning, gamification, and CBL
with some questionnaires. The students first came across these online course mate-
rials in the first stage. After completion of introductory part, the domain expert will
assign some task to the students. Then, each individual student or a group of student
will try to solve it depending upon their prior knowledge. In the third stage, classroom
discussion will be carried out in either online mode or offline mode with the domain
expert. The domain expert clarifies all the questionnaires raised by the student. In the
fourth stage, the students give their assessment report to the expert. The expert eval-
uates the report and gives his feedback to the student. Meanwhile, the students are
also asked to submit their feedback about the online course materials and classroom
experience. All these workflows are governed by the administrator through an online
portal. The assessing policy for the expert and students is designed by the admin-
istrator. The administrator is held responsible for the data security and privacy of
the students as well as domain expert. Different application delivery approaches are
employed here such as public, private, and hybrid. For example, the course material
application assess is kept under public assess policy. The content of course material
preparation, updating, evaluation process, and feedback to the student application is
coming under hybrid policy for the expert and the administrator. The overall mainte-
nance and monitoring application policy is kept for the administrator assesses policy.
In this approach, the student will have exposure to the real-world problems. Here,
their problem-solving capability will improvewhich leads them to solve their domain
complex problem by creative thinking [27].
In thismodern era, students are getting attractedmore to the laptops, palmtops, and
mobile phones. They spend more time in these gadgets round the clock rather than
the text book. So this shifts the learning trend from the text book to the mobile phone.
Here, by introducing the gamification learning mode in the learning methodology,
the educational institutions can attract the students and create more interest among
286 S. K. Mahapatra et al.
students by transforming the course module to a gamified course module [28]. This
method will enhance each students thinking process and progress their skill for a
given task. As the traditional teaching method fails to bind the students in this rapid
change of technological era, gamification learning approach not only creates the
interest but also improves critical thinking.Thegamification facilitates the knowledge
transfer, micro-learning, assessments, and competition among the students [29]. It
also engages the students at theirmaximum level of concentration through the rewards
points at different level of gamification process.
3.2 Effect of Environment on Academic Performance
Nowadays, air pollutants are increasing in different areas whether it is a metro city
or a rural area. These air pollutants not only create respiratory diseases but also
are responsible for the cardiac problems. The constant exposure to these pollutants
like PM10, PM2.5, CO2, SO2, and NO2 etc., can degrade the cognitive response of a
child, and it also degrade its academic performance [30]. Thus, this study is to find
out the inter-relationship between the air pollutant and academic performance of a
student. This work also reveals the variation of test score with the different level of
air pollutant in different region as well as in different season. The proposed air pollu-
tant measurement system consists of different low-cost sensor network to measure
different air pollutant like PM10, NO2, SO2, etc., and the air pollution measurement
system is shown in Fig. 2. These sensors network is connected to IoT devices to send
the collected data to the IoT cloud. The sensors network is kept across a specified
area generally a state or a country. The collected data is further analyzed by different
machine learning algorithms like SVM, KNN, NN etc., for categorizing the student’s
attentiveness during a specified AQI level. Furthermore, at that specified AQI level,
the test scores of the students are collected and analyzed to see the influence of
different air pollutant over student’s test score.
Fig. 2 Air pollutant measurement system using IoT
A Hybrid Connected Approach of Technologies … 287
3.3 Block Chain Supported IoT-Based Attendance
Monitoring System
Throughout the journey of modern educational system, the attendance plays an
important role in achieving the academic goals. In recent years, as virtual classes
are becoming an effective tool to deliver the class content, it is very interesting issue
to monitor the student’s attendance in virtual mode of class. Some researchers are
carried on to monitor the attendance without human interference by utilizing RFID
tag, face recognition, biometric sensors, etc. [31]. But all of the above-discussed
attendance monitoring systems are based on face-to-face mode of class. Further-
more, they are silent about the data privacy and integrity of the collected data from
these devices. After collecting these data from a device, these data can be manipu-
lated at the server end, and hence, the academic outcomes may differ as expected.
To resolve this issue, a hybrid approach is presented by utilizing blockchain along
with IoT for student’s data security and integrity.
In this proposed approach, face recognition and finger print algorithm are utilized
to monitor the attendance. While along with these algorithms, a Python code is
utilized to monitor the network status. When there is any issue with the network, it
will be log in a file and send it to the server. The continuous attendance monitoring
system is presented in Fig. 3. In the server end, all the attendance of a particular
course for a specified time is logged, and a block is created within the blockchain.
This private blockchain is integrated within a LMS system. All the attendance along
with the activity of a particular student can be monitored by the faculty or by any
academic council member.
Fig. 3 IoT-based continuous attendance monitoring system
288 S. K. Mahapatra et al.
4 Conclusion
This work is emphasized on the different approaches to improve the academic
outcomes. This work also reveals the different factors that are influencing the
academic performance. To improve the academic performance, a hybrid teaching
learning method is presented. Furthermore, to effectively monitor the attendance
as well as performance of a student, a secure LMS system is presented utilizing
blockchain with IoT. This work further investigates that how the pollution level at
different areas also affects the academic performance and the diversified utilization
of IoT in the field of education to improve its performance.
References
1. Ashton K (2009) That ‘internet of things’ thing. RFID J 22(7):97–114
2. Selinger M, Sepulveda A, Buchan J (2013) Education and the internet of everything: how
ubiquitous connectedness can help transform pedagogy. White Paper, Cisco, San Jose, CA
3. Atlam HF, Alenezi A, Alharthi A,Walters RJ, Wills GB (2017) Integration of cloud computing
with internet of things: challenges and open issues. In: 2017 IEEE International conference
on Internet of Things (iThings) and IEEE green computing and communications (GreenCom)
and IEEE cyber, physical and social computing (CPSCom) and IEEE smart data (SmartData).
IEEE, pp 670–675
4. Gartner Inc. (2017) IT glossary—Internet of Things. http://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/int
ernet-of-things/
5. Čolaković A, Hadžialić M (2018) Internet of Things (IoT): a review of enabling technologies,
challenges, and open research issues. Comput Netw 144:17–39
6. Miller S, Vela M. The effects of air pollution on educational outcomes: evidence from Chile
7. Suglia SF, Gryparis A, Wright RO, Schwartz J, Wright RJ (2008) Association of black carbon
with cognition among children in a prospective birth cohort study. Am JEpidemiol 167(3):280–
286
8. Meyliana YUC, Cadelina Cassandra S, Erick Fernando HAEW. Recording of student
attendance with blockchain technology to avoid fake presence data in teaching learning process
9. Zhamanov A, Sakhiyeva Z, Zhaparov M (2018) Implementation and evaluation of flipped
classroom as IoT element into learning process of computer network education. Int J Inf
Commun Technol Educ (IJICTE) 14(2):30–47
10. Vu P, Feinstein S (2017) An exploratory multiple case study about using game-based learning
in STEM classrooms. Int J Res Educ Sci (IJRES) 3(2):582–588. https://doi.org/10.21890/ijres.
328087
11. Wang Y (2010, October). English interactive teaching model which based upon Internet of
Things. In: 2010 International conference on computer application and system modeling
(ICCASM 2010), vol 13. IEEE, pp V13–587
12. Chin J, Callaghan V (2013) Educational living labs: a novel internet-of-things based approach
to teaching and research. In: 2013 9th International conference on intelligent environments.
IEEE, pp 92–99
13. Cheng HC, Liao WW (2012) Establishing an lifelong learning environment using IOT
and learning analytics. In: 2012 14th International conference on advanced communication
technology (ICACT). IEEE, pp 1178–1183
14. Castellani AP, Bui N, Casari P, Rossi M, Shelby Z, Zorzi M (2010) Architecture and protocols
for the internet of things: a case study. In: 2010 8th IEEE International conference on pervasive
computing and communications workshops (PERCOM workshops). IEEE, pp 678–683
http://www.gartner.com/it-glossary/internet-of-things/
https://doi.org/10.21890/ijres.328087
A Hybrid Connected Approach of Technologies … 289
15. Vo MH, Zhu C, Diep AN (2019) Examining blended learning implementation in hard and soft
sciences: a qualitative analysis
16. Özgür H (2020) Relationships between computational thinking skills, ways of thinking and
demographic variables: a structural equation modeling. Int J Res Educ Sci (IJRES) 6(2):299–
314
17. MagieraMT,ZambakVS (2020)Exploringprospective teachers’ ability to generate and analyze
evidence-based explanatory arguments. Int J Res Educ Sci (IJRES) 6(2):327–346
18. Seage SJ, Türegün M (2020) The effects of blended learning on STEM achievement of
elementary school students. Int J Res Educ Science (IJRES) 6(1):133–140
19. Gowri CSR, Kiran V, Rama Krishna G (2016) Automated intelligence system for attendance
monitoring with open CV based on internet of things (IoT). Int J Sci Eng Technol Res (IJSETR)
5(4):905–913
20. Uddin MS, Allayear SM, Das NC, Talukder FA (2014) A location based time and attendance
system. Int J Comput Theor Eng 6(1):1–2
21. Shoewu O, Olaniyi OM, Lawson A (2011) Embedded computer-based lecture attendance
management system. Afr J Comput ICT 4(3):27–36
22. Mani Kumar B, Praveen Kumar M, Rangareddy (2015) RFID based attendance monitoring
system using IOT with TI CC3200 launchpad. Int J Mag Eng Technol Manag Res 2(7):1465–
1467
23. Kadry S, Smaili M (2013) Wireless attendance management system based on iris recognition.
Scien Res Essays 5(12):1428–1435
24. Abubakar I, Kpochi PK, Eiyike JS (2018) Design and implementation of a smart attendance
register. Int J Adv Eng Res Dev 5(2)
25. Zweig JS, Ham JC, Avol EL (2009) Air pollution and academic performance: evidence from
California schools. National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, 1–35
26. Carroll HC (2010) The effect of pupil absenteeism on literacy and numeracy in the primary
school. Sch Psychol Int 31(2):115–130
27. Herreid CF, Schiller NA (2013) Case studies and the flipped classroom. J Coll Sci Teach
42(5):62–66
28. Kapp KM (2012) The gamification of learning and instruction: game-based methods and
strategies for training and education. John Wiley & Sons
29. Muntean CI (2011) Raising engagement in e-learning through gamification. In: Proceedings
6th international conference on virtual learning ICVL, vol 1, pp 323–329
30. Hoek G, Krishnan RM, Beelen R, Peters A, Ostro B, Brunekreef B, Kaufman JD (2013)
Long-term air pollution exposure and cardio-respiratory mortality: a review. Environ Health
12(1):1–6
31. Ahmed A, Olaniyi OM, Kolo JG, Durugo C (2016) A multifactor student attendance manage-
ment system using fingerprint biometrics and RFID techniques. In: International conference
on information and communication technology and its applications (ICTA 2016), pp 69–74,
Minna, Nigeria, November 2016
	 A Hybrid Connected Approach of Technologies to Enhance Academic Performance
	1 Introduction
	2 Related Works
	3 Proposed Methods and Materials
	3.1 A Hybrid LMS System
	3.2 Effect of Environment on Academic Performance
	3.3 Block Chain Supported IoT-Based Attendance Monitoring System
	4 Conclusion
	References