Demonstration of Integration of Blockchain in IoT
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 16 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
Demonstration of Integration of Blockchain in IoT 
* 
 
Somya Suhans Mahapatra  
School of Electronics Engineering  
Kalinga Institute of Industrial Technology (KIIT)  
Bhubaneswar, India  
ritul.mahapatra@gmail.com 
 
Abstract—In the modern era, blockchain technology has 
achieved a substantial growth with rapid research developments. 
Blockchain technology is widely used in the field of cryptocur-
rency. However, it can also be applied in other field such as 
internet of things (IoT). In IoT, data security and integrity is a 
prime concern where many problems exist such as data 
reliability and unauthorized access. It creates huge problem in 
deploying an IoT system on a smaller or larger scale. Hence, this 
paper reports a possible integration of blockchain technology in 
IoT to create a secure network. To demonstrate this, the game of 
Tic-Tac-Toe is implemented by following the rules of blockchain. 
The main goal of this implementation is to explore the 
application of blockchain in IoT and practically merge these two 
fields to get the service of IoT with the security and integrity that 
the blockchain technology promises. 
  
Index Terms—Cryptocurrency, Blockchain, IoT, Proof of work, 
Merkle tree. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
The world is moving towards a very tech-centric era, where 
the IoT devices around us become a very essential part of our 
daily lives [1]. With development of IoT along with 
embedded systems and wireless communication systems, it is 
trying to make internet more accessible to everyone [2], [3]. 
Nowadays, IoT is one of the most influential emerging fields 
which has domestic to industrial scale applications. In general, 
an IoT network consists of heterogeneous devices which 
produce and exchange data among themselves. In IoT system, 
it is critical to maintain the security of data that is vulnerable 
to cyber attacks [4]. Presently, IoT consists of centralized 
architecture by connecting heterogeneous devices to cloud 
services through the internet. Various cyber security problems 
may be there in this network. In addition to this, the 
centralized architecture of IoT also puts all the connected 
devices/ nodes at the risk of failure when the central server 
poses any failure or problem [5], [6]. Hence, it is very 
important to make a secure decentralized network of IoT 
devices which should be fault tolerant as well. One of the 
potential solution to accomplish this is by using the concepts 
of blockchain [7]. 
 
Blockchain is an emerging field of research that is yet to 
expand its horizon beyond the world of cryptocurrency. 
Blockchain explores the idea of making a decentralized net-
work of interconnected devices where each device that is 
 
 
Chandan Kumar Jha  
Dept. of Electronics & Communication Engineering  
Indian Institute of Information Technology Bhagalpur  
Bhagalpur, India  
ckjha.ece@iiitbh.ac.in 
 
connected to the network forms a trust with one another based 
on the concept of proof of work which lets them share a 
ledger to which all the devices can agree upon [8], [9]. It 
makes use of the peer to peer network to make the system 
decentralized and it tolerates any faults from any device on 
the blockchain network through the use of proof of work 
system [2]. It can provide a viable solution to make the IoT 
devices more secure.  
In past, few research works have been carried out which 
explore the idea of combining IoT and blockchain together. In 
[10], Liu et al. proposed a blockchain based access control 
system in IoT which consists of three kinds of smart contracts: 
device contract, policy contract, and access contract. This ac-
cess control system is based on hyper-ledger fabric blockchain 
framework and attribute based access control (ABAC) model. 
A decentralized authorization system is developed in [11] 
which works without a central trusted party. It leverages the 
idea of blockchains smart contracts combined with protected 
DoTs to maintain the security of the resources delegated on 
the blockchain. This approach provides means of federating 
networks of embedded networks and supports the life cycle of 
connected devices. In [2], Lei et al. outlines the approach for 
implementation of decentralized IoT platform to address its 
scalability, identity and data security challenges based on 
blockchain network. In this work, raspberry pi development 
boards are used for the implementation of physical devices. 
This paper presents comparative analysis of the designed 
system with the the existing works. In [12], a proof of block 
and trade algorithm is proposed which enables the security of 
block at trade and block creation phases. A lightweight 
consensus algorithm is also proposed which incorporates 
peers based on the amount of nodes participating in a session. 
This work reduces the computational time required by peers, 
and allows higher transaction rates for the IoT devices. 
 
Integration of blockchain technology with IoT may pose 
different challenges. First of all, it is difficult to establish a 
true peer to peer connection over a wireless communication 
channel using Wi-Fi network [5]. This problem can be tackled 
using mesh network architecture, which is implemented using 
a decentralized network without establishing a peer to peer 
connection amongst the nodes [6], [13]. Secondly, memory 
storage of IoT devices is an important factor to consider when 
these devices use a micro-controller with very small storage 
20
21
 4
th
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 R
ec
en
t T
re
nd
s i
n 
C
om
pu
te
r S
ci
en
ce
 a
nd
 T
ec
hn
ol
og
y 
(I
C
R
TC
ST
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
66
33
-2
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
R
TC
ST
54
75
2.
20
22
.9
78
18
87
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 17 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1.  Block-diagram of blockchain design of tic-tac-toe game 
 
 
capacity [4]. This problem can be dealt using the concept of Merkle 
tree which is a binary hash tree used to store data in an efficient 
manner [8]. Lastly, mining in blockchain network is an important 
problem which has to be resolved when integration is being done 
with IoT devices. However, results of the mining step can be 
achieved using the the nodes present on the network itself without 
adding any additional mining nodes [2]. Thus, the goal of the mining 
process which is also called the proof of work can be fulfilled.  
Considering the above mentioned challenges, this paper presents 
the demonstration of blockchain technology in IoT using 
implementation of the game ”Tic-Tac-Toe”. The game of ”Tic-Tac-
Toe” has its own set of rules and regulations. The game features total 
nine moves and it can be correlated with the fact that there are a 
limited number of cryptocurrency on a blockchain network. Hence, 
nine moves are correlated to nine cryptocurrency present on the 
blockchain network. In the game of ”Tic-Tac-Toe”, each player can 
make a move with the agreement of both the parties. Hence, the 
game is implemented to be played autonomously between the two 
devices just by letting the devices follow the rules of blockchain. It is 
assumed that the devices have to maintain the integrity of the game 
by themselves without the involvement of any centralized server. 
Hence, it can be proved out to be the ideal game to expand the scope 
of IoT and blockchain together. Although, it is a crude idea based on 
which the implementation of blockchain network and IoT is built, 
still a lot of research that needs to be done for the ease of 
implementation and to make this useful for wide applications. 
 
II. METHODOLOGY 
 
In the proposed work, the game of ”Tic-Tac-Toe” is de-signed and 
implemented in such a way that it follows the rules of blockchain. 
The game is played between two devices. The overall system 
consists of several layers which are working independently from 
each other. If problems arise in one layer it does not affect any of the 
other layer present in the system. It helps to deal with any fault that 
arises in the system and also lets someone modify one part of the 
system without affecting the rest of the system. For maintaining the 
integrity of data, simple consensus algorithm is used. In 
 
 
 
comparison with existing algorithms, the consensus algorithm is 
computationally less expensive and it is most suitable for resource 
constrained low cost micro-controller. The proposed implementation 
does not need any extra mining devices. As a result of the 
implementation, the ”Tic-Tac-Toe” game is played between two 
devices and it is displayed on a front-end web application for 
monitoring the data. For the display of the game using front-end web 
application, flask framework is used to develop the application 
programming interface (API). 
 
A. Blockchain design and implementation 
 
Figure.1 illustrates the idea of the high level implementation of the 
”Tic-Tac-Toe” game which works on the principle of blockchain. In 
this implementation, first, the game starts off with the player which 
generates their move with initialization of a new block on the 
network. The player then broadcasts this block to opponent’s device 
present on the network. The opponent then runs proof of work on the 
received block and if its a valid block then it gets added to the 
blockchain, else it gets discarded and the player has to send a new 
valid block in order to get added to the ledger. The updated 
blockchain then gets displayed on frontend web application. In the 
proposed implementation, low-cost ”NodeMCU 12-E ESP8266” 
development board is used which also features an inbuilt Wi-Fi 
module. 
 
B. Proof of work for the game 
 
In the proposed work, new blocks are added to the blockchain 
ledger using a consensus algorithm which is con-sidered as proof-of-
work [9] for the game. All the devices from players side have to be 
agreed to this ledger. In the game, the generated move by a player 
should not be illegal or duplicate in order to get added it to the 
blockchain. For this, the generated move is validated using the proof-
of-work. In conventional blockchain implementation, this proof-of-
work is done by mining devices connected to the peer to peer 
network [8] in which 5-10 minutes duration is taken to complete the 
process and to add a new block to the blockchain depending upon the 
cryptocurrency. In the case of IoT based implementation, the mining 
process proves to be unessential because it just adds extra cost and 
complexity to the implementation which 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 18 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2.  Flowgraph of proof of work 
 
 
effectively making it less feasible [2], [4]. In the proposed blockchain 
based implementation of ”Tic-Tac-Toe” game, the nodes present on 
the network itself are used to run the proof of work without the need 
of extra mining nodes. Hence, this implementation of proof of work 
eliminates the need of mining. Figure 2 illustrates the flow-graph of 
proof of work for the game which is designed to validate the move. 
 
C. Move/Block Generation 
 
The important and the most integral part of any turn based game 
lies in decision of both the players to make certain moves to outsmart 
the opponent. In the game of ”Tic-Tac-Toe”, there are two moves 
which are represented by the symbol ”X” and ”O”. Any player can 
make either one of the move throughout the game. The game features 
a 3x3 grid and any player who captures a line in this grid either 
vertically, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3.  Grid of tic-tac-toe game  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4.  Grid of tic-tac-toe game 
 
 
horizontally or diagonally wins the game. At the start of the game, 
both the devices decide to choose their symbol either ”X” or ”O” 
with the help of simulation of tossing a coin. The device who wins 
the toss that plays the symbol ”X” or ”O” in their move throughout 
the game. The toss losing device get the other symbol respectively. 
When a device generates a move, it chooses a random number 
between 1-9 based on which the move is placed on the respective 
position of the grid (which is shown in Figure 3). A generated move 
is also a like transaction in the blockchain network. Hence, it 
proceeds to add this move to the ledger. The generated move is 
encoded in the following format: ”fPlayer NamegfPlayer 
SymbolgfPlayer Positiong”. Hence, a move like ”AO5” means player 
”A” made the move ”O” at the 5th block of the grid. All the moves 
made by both the players are embedded into a single string which 
serves as ledger. Moves made by both players are embedded in the 
format: ”!fPlayer1 Moveg!fPlayer 2 Moveg!fPlayer 1 Moveg!...”. 
This can be done upto 9 moves and maximum 5 moves can be played 
by a player. Figure 4 shows the game ”Tic-Tac-Toe” is in progress 
with three moves. The encoded string for this game so far looks like 
!Ax5!Bo3!Ax1!000!000!000!000!000!000!000!.  
The string is formatted in such a way to follow the principle of 
hashing. It is a way to transform a string of characters to a shorter 
fixed length which represents the original string [14]. There are 
several other ways of carrying out hashing but in the proposed 
implementation this design choice is made such that it becomes easy 
to demonstrate how the concepts of the blockchain carry out over to 
the game of ”Tic-Tac-Toe” in a more understandable manner. By 
following this format, the length of the string is fixed at the length of 
37 throughout the whole game. Upon exhausting all the 9 moves, the 
game restarts and the string becomes 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 19 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
!000!000!000!000!000!000!000! which represents an empty grid. It 
is implemented in such a way to follow the concept of a Merkle tree 
which is discussed in detail in the next section. 
 
D. Merkle tree for the ledger 
 
In the proposed implementation of blockchain, a data structure 
called Merkle tree [8] is used. It is a binary hash tree which 
efficiently stores and manages data. In this tree, each parent node 
can only consist upto 2 child nodes which continues down to the 
leaf nodes. The leaf nodes contain the information about each of 
the new block that gets generated. Figure 5 shows the Merkle tree 
which works in our application. Every move/block that is 
generated by either of the devices gets added to this structure and 
then gets hashed together into one root hash containing the 
information of the whole game. Hence, the root hash contains 
details of all the moves that have been generated over the course 
of the game. This gives a secure, fast and efficient solution to 
encode the blockchain data. This method also helps in quick 
verification of the blockchain data and allows the data to be 
broad-casted to another device on the network in a very fast and 
efficient manner. 
 
E. Securing the data using cryptography 
 
Cryptography is a very essential part of a blockchain network 
which maintains the integrity and security of data that is being broad-
casted over to the network. A conventional blockchain network uses 
SHA encryption to maintain the integrity of the blockchain ledger 
[15]. It offers more security but it is computationally expensive. 
Hence, it is beyond the scope of micro-controller with limited 
computing power. Furthermore, a micro-controller generally has to 
exchange real time data with one another. Therefore, a symmetric 
cryptography technique called secret key cryptography [16] is being 
used in the implementation of ”Tic-Tac-Toe” game using micro-
controller devices. In the proposed implementation, each device has 
its own private key. This private key gets added to each character of 
the message from the root node of the Merkle tree. It encrypts the 
data in such a way that the original message is recovered only when 
someone knows the private key of the device, else the proof of work 
will reject the recovery message and render it invalid. Each device 
stores its own private key along with the private key of the other 
device present on the network. Any node can decrypt the encrypted 
message easily using that private key from the other node, which 
programmatically stored in each of the devices during the 
initialization. The reason for the use of private key cryptography is 
that it can be decoded very swiftly and it is very fast.  
Another advantage of this cryptography is that when it is 
used in micro-controller or module like Arduino, there is no 
possible way to extract the private key from these devices. It 
proves to be very efficient and reliable in exchanging real 
time data between two devices. 
 
F. Proposed System Architecture 
 
The proposed IoT-blockchain implementation uses a layer based 
architecture which is shown in Figure 6. This archi-tecture provides a 
feasibility of making a modular system. It makes each layer separate 
from the other due to which modification in any layer without 
affecting the other layer is possible. As shown in Figure 6, the system 
architecture is divided into 4 layers which are IoT physical layer, 
connection layer, IoT-blockchain service layer and application layer.  
The IoT-physical layer deals with various nodes which are linked to 
each other in a decentralized manner. All the nodes work homogeneously 
to exchange meaningful data from each other. In this layer, mesh 
topology is used to create decentralized network over the devices 
connected through Wi-Fi. The benefit of using mesh topology is that it 
provides the broadcasting of any message from any device to the rest of 
the devices present on the IoT network without third party server. It also 
provides the fidelity to run proof-of-work on the devices and share a 
ledger over the network without the need of a centralized server. A 
centralized server can also manage all the devices present on the network 
but it administers lot of problems such as any kind of server failure 
affects all the devices [5], [6]. In addition to this, any kind of cyber attack 
on the central server affect the entire system. Hence, decentralize 
network of devices is used in the proposed system architecture. 
 
The connection layer consists of a router which is used to link the 
IoT physical layer and IoT-blockchain service layer for 
communication. It handles the management and routing of data. The 
IoT-blockchain service layer is required to keep track of all the data 
that are being exchanged through the IoT devices. Essentially, it 
keeps track of the ledger data but it doesnt affect the IoT physical 
layer in any way. This layer is responsible for fetching the ledger 
data from the IoT physical Layer for creating a database to store the 
fetched data. Lastly, the application layer features a front-end web 
application. Its main function is to display the data that is being 
stored in the IoT-Blockchain service layer. Hence, this layer is 
important to display, visualize and monitor the data from the 
database. 
 
III. IMPLEMENTATION OF IOT-BLOCKCHAIN PLATFORM 
 
In the proposed implementation of ”Tic-Tac-Toe” game, data 
exchanging occurs between two devices. For this, simple server-
client communication is used between two devices. For this, one 
device is treated a station while the other as an access point. The 
station device establishes connection with the access point device 
and exchanges data by making use of TCP/ IP protocol. Figure 7 
illustrates all the TCP/ IP operations that are taking place between 
the two devices.  
For ”Tic-Tac-Toe” game, all the blockchain operations are 
performed in the IoT physical layer. The game initially starts with the 
coin-toss operation which simulates a real life coin toss between the 
two devices. The network selects one device randomly through 
making a coin toss between the two devices. It starts at every round 
of the game because giving starting advantage to a single player 
would lead to an unfair game. Whichever device wins the coin toss 
proceeds to sending new 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 20 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.  Merkle tree for the tic-tac-toe game  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6.  Proposed system architecture 
 
 
blocks/moves to the opponent while the device that lost the coin 
toss proceeds to proof of work to verify the incoming block/move 
through the other device. The two IoT devices between which the 
game is performed use ”NodeMCU 12-E ESP8266” development 
boards. These development boards are based on ”Tensilica 32-bit 
RISC CPU Xtensa LX106” micro-controller and it have a built-in 
Wi-Fi module. These development boards are low cost compared 
to other. 
 
Connection between the two IoT devices is established 
based on the architecture of the connection layer which acts as 
a message broker between the IoT physical layer and the IoT-
blockchain service layer. It is important to establish a 
connection between these two layers for for the management 
and routing of data. 
 
The encoded data is exchanged between the IoT physical layer to 
the IoT-blockchain service layer and gets decoded by the IoT-
blockchain service layer to be used in a meaningful manner. IoT-
blockchain service layer serves as a mediator between the IoT 
physical layer and the application layer. It also provides an 
application programming interface (API) for the application layer. In 
the proposed implementation, pythons ”Flask library” is used to 
make the API. This API features a 
 
 
 
set of functions which allows applications to access the data or 
interact with external software components. The developed API is a 
light weight ”WSGI” web application framework which can be 
scaled up for complex applications. The ”Flask library” interatcs with 
the ”SQLite 3 library” to create the database from the encoded data 
received from the IoT Physical layer. The ”SQLite 3 library” 
maintains the database. 
 
The blockchain database is visualized and monitored by the 
application layer. This layer fetches data from the IoT-blockchain 
service layer using API call to the respective route. For this, ”axios” 
is used which is a promise-based HTTP client. It offers asynchronous 
routine calls to the API. It is used to routine call to the respective 
route which in turn sends the data in ”JSON” format. After that 
”React” component is used to create a dynamic table with infinite 
scroll feature. It displays the fetched data in a tabular manner and can 
be scrolled down infinitely till the end of the data. The table row gets 
updated dynamically whenever a new entry gets added to the 
database that is being maintained over the IoT-blockchain service 
layer. Figure 8 shows the ”Tic-Tac-Toe” dashboard which is the 
tabular display of the game data. In the proposed implementation, 
”react.js library” is used to build dynamic and 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 21 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7.  TCP/IP operations between the IoT devices  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8.  Tic-Tac-Toe game dashboard 
 
 
interactive user interface (UI) for web application in a very 
easy and reliable manner. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
 
Gradually, the role of IoT is becoming prominent in our daily life 
for several applications. IoT performs data exchange between 
different inter-connected devices. In IoT, security and integrity of 
data is crucial and important. Blockchain tech-nology provides useful 
tools and concepts that address issues concerning to security and 
integrity of data. But, integration of blockchain technology with IoT 
is challenging. Hence, this paper presents the implementation of the 
game ”Tic-Tac-Toe” which demonstrates the integration of 
blockchain in IoT. The rules and regulations of the game ”Tic-Tac-
Toe” make it suitable for this demonstration. The proposed 
implementation explores the idea of merging of IoT and bockchain 
technology for resource constrained and low cost IoT devices. It can 
provide a promising solution towards cyber-security required 
 
 
 
with the growing influence of IoT. In future, the proposed work can 
be made more scalable. In addition to this, the consensus algorithm 
can be improved using hashing techniques to make more 
standardized for any kind of data exchange. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Schachtner, Christian. ”Essey 2.0 The future impact of IoT (Internet of 
Things) on your daily life .” (2020).  
[2] Hang, Lei, and Do-Hyeun Kim. ”Design and implementation of an 
integrated iot blockchain platform for sensing data integrity.” Sensors 
19, no. 10 (2019): 2228. 
[3] Bhattacharjee, Shameek, Mehrdad Salimitari, Mainak Chatterjee, Kevin Kwiat, 
and Charles Kamhoua. ”Preserving data integrity in iot networks under 
opportunistic data manipulation.” In 2017 IEEE 15th Intl Conf on Dependable, 
Autonomic and Secure Computing, 15th Intl Conf on Pervasive Intelligence and 
Computing, 3rd Intl Conf on Big Data In-telligence and Computing and Cyber 
Science and Technology Congress (DASC/PiCom/DataCom/CyberSciTech), pp. 
446-453. IEEE, 2017. 
[4] Reyna, Ana, Cristian Martn, Jaime Chen, Enrique Soler, and Manuel Daz. ”On 
blockchain and its integration with IoT. Challenges and opportunities.” Future 
generation computer systems 88 (2018): 173-190. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
 
4th International Conference on Recent Trends in Computer Science and Technology (ICRTCST-2021) 
ISBN: 978-1-6654-6633-2 22 PART: CFP22P42-ART 
 
[5] Alencar, Mrcio, Raimundo Barreto, Horcio Fernandes, Eduardo Souto, 
and Richard Pazzi. ”DARE: A decentralized association rules extraction 
scheme for embedded data sets in distributed IoT devices.” Inter-
national Journal of Distributed Sensor Networks 16, no. 10 (2020): 
1550147720962999.  
[6] Singh, Raman, Andrew Donegan, and Hitesh Tewari. ”Framework for a 
Decentralized Web.” In 2020 30th International Telecommunication 
Networks and Applications Conference (ITNAC), pp. 1-7. IEEE, 2020.  
[7] XIAOYU YANG, (2021), “Power Grid Fault Prediction Method Based 
On Feature Selection And Classification Algorithm” Int. J. of 
Electronics Engineering and Applications, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 34-44, DOI 
10.30696/IJEEA.IX.I.2021.34-44..  
[8] Nakamoto, S. ”Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. 
Technical report, Manubot.” (2019).  
[9] Porat, Amitai, Avneesh Pratap, Parth Shah, and Vinit Adkar. ”Blockchain 
Consensus: An analysis of Proof-of-Work and its applications.” (2017). 
[10] Liu, Han, Dezhi Han, and Dun Li. ”Fabric-IoT: A blockchain-based 
access control system in IoT.” IEEE Access 8 (2020): 18207-18218.  
[11] Andersen, Michael P., John Kolb, Kaifei Chen, Gabriel Fierro, David E. 
Culler, and Raluca Ada Popa. ”Wave: A decentralized authorization 
system for iot via blockchain smart contracts.” University of California 
at Berkeley, Tech. Rep (2017).  
[12] Biswas, Sujit, Kashif Sharif, Fan Li, Sabita Maharjan, Saraju P. 
Mohanty, and Yu Wang. ”PoBT: A lightweight consensus algorithm for 
scalable IoT business blockchain.” IEEE Internet of Things Journal 7, 
no. 3 (2019): 2343-2355.  
[13] Mandava Siva Sai Vighnesh, MD Shakir Alam and Vinitha.S, (2021), 
“Leaf Diseases Detection and Medication” Int. J. of Electronics 
Engineering and Applications, Vol. 9, No. 1, pp. 01-07, doi 
10.30696/IJEEA.IX.I.2021.01-07.  
[14] Swathi, Edem, G. Vivek, and G. Sandhya Rani. ”Role of hash function in 
cryptography.” Int. J. Adv. Eng. Res. Sci.(IJAERS) (2016). 
[15] Swathi, Edem, G. Vivek, and G. Sandhya Rani. ”Role of hash function in 
cryptography.” Int. J. Adv. Eng. Res. Sci.(IJAERS) (2016).. 
[16] Rajesh Kumar Tiwari (2020).  ‘Human age estimation Using Machine 
Learning Techniques’, International Journal of Electronics Engineering 
and Applications, Vol. 8, No. 1, pp.01-09, DOI- 
10.30696/IJEEA.VIII.I.2020.01-09. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:30:05 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.