Blockchain-Based Intelligent Network Management for 5G and Beyond
36 
 
978-1-7281-2399-8/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 
Blockchain-Based Intelligent Network Management 
for 5G and Beyond 
Taras Maksymyuk  
Department of Telecommunications  
Lviv Polytechnic National University  
Lviv, Ukraine 
taras.maksymyuk@gmail.com 
Longzhe Han 
Jiangxi Province Key Laboratory of Water Information 
Cooperative Sensing and Intelligent Processing 
Nanchang Institute of Technology 
Nanchang, China 
longzhehan@gmail.com 
Juraj Gazda 
Department of Computers and Informatics  
Technical University of Kosice 
Kosice, Slovakia 
juraj.gazda@tuke.sk 
Minho Jo  
Department of Computer Convergence Software  
Korea University  
Sejong Metropolitan City, S. Korea 
minhojo@korea.ac.kr  
 
Abstract — The concept of spectrum and infrastructure 
sharing appeared to solve the problem by allowing operators to 
cooperate between each other. However, the current 
architecture of mobile network, which is mostly based on the 
centralized management entities is not suitable for the spectrum 
and infrastructure sharing due to the complexity of billing 
procedure. Moreover, the operator oriented mobile network is 
slowing the overall technological development, because 
operators must balance between capital expenditures and profit 
margins. Such situation negatively affects users, because they 
are either experience lower quality of service or forced to pay 
higher price. In this paper, we propose a new intelligent network 
architecture, which leverage the blockchain technology to 
handle relationship between operators and users based on smart 
contracts. The new unlicensed spectrum sharing algorithm 
between operators using the virtual cryptocurrency has been 
developed based on game theory. Simulation results show that 
proposed algorithm achieves Nash equilibrium between 
operators within few seconds.  
Keywords—5G, AI, blockchain, spectrum sharing 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In the era of wireless digital world, the importance of 
reliable wireless connectivity with target performance 
increases exponentially. Regardless of the technological 
achievements of 5G networks, the physical constraints such as 
limited spectrum and infrastructure availability are still major 
limiting factors, which prevent operators to scale their services 
properly. 
Spectrum limitation in wireless networks cause a lot of 
complexities for fast improvement of throughput and service 
quality. Operators are forced to invest large amount of money 
in their infrastructure, in order to maximize the capacity by 
network densification and higher frequency reuse factors. The 
dark side of such trend is that infrastructure becomes more 
expensive, spectrum price is getting higher and total cost of 
ownership for operator increases drastically [1].  
In order to reduce the capital expenditure (CAPEX) and 
operating expenses (OPEX) of the mobile network operator, 
the concept of self-organizing network (SON) has appeared to 
improve the management of dense and complex 
heterogeneous network infrastructure in an autonomous 
fashion [2].  
Nowadays, with the rise of big data and artificial 
intelligence, the applications of SON have been facilitated by 
use of new state-of-the-art algorithms for spectrum 
management, coverage optimization, mobility management, 
QoS (quality of service) control, and many others [3]. It is 
difficult to overestimate the impact of big data on the future 
ecosystem of artificial intelligence. Being “the electricity of 
mind,” data are essential part of any intelligent network 
management algorithm. 
The emergence of cloud computing has introduced 
scalable and powerful computing and storage infrastructures, 
which opened new opportunities for smarter algorithms. The 
cloud infrastructure provides a good platform for effective 
management of big data that allows handling of massive 
computing tasks and training more complex intelligent 
algorithms. This feature is helpful for network management, 
because more parameters can be optimized to achieve better 
performance from the 5G infrastructure. Moreover, the 
scalability of cloud systems provides flexible computational 
capacity, which can be adjusted for various types of 5G 
deployment and management scenarios [4-6]. 
In addition to technical limitations, there are also 
economic constraints, which prevent the fully autonomous 
network operation. For example, it is not yet clear how 
different operators will operate simultaneously in autonomous 
fashion, if they will be forced to share the spectrum or even 
infrastructure. Moreover, roaming between operators is still 
complex and expensive for all parties. We propose to utilize 
the latest advances of blockchain technology to simplify 
relationship between all parties it the mobile communications 
market [7].   
Blockhain can disrupt traditional established relationships 
between end users and mobile network operators. Technically, 
blockchain is a continuously growing list of transaction 
records, i.e. blocks. Each new block is dependent on the 
previous one in a way that cryptographic hash of the previous 
block with timestamp, and transaction data is included in the 
new block. Such feature prevents data modification, because 
any attempt to create fake block will lead to the wrong hash in 
the following blocks on the chain, so that such transaction will 
not be accepted by other nodes. Thus, blockchain provides a 
distributed ledger that record transactions between two parties 
in a secure manner.  
In this paper, we integrate blockhain and AI in the future 
intelligent mobile networks to open a door for various 
intelligent network management algorithms.  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
37 
 
 
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. 
Section II covers the detail description of the proposed 
blockchain-based intelligent mobile network architecture and 
proposed blockchain solutions for mobile networks. 
Simulation results and performance analysis are provided in 
Section III. Finally, we conclude the paper in Section IV. 
II. BLOCKCHAIN-BASED INTELLIGENT NETWORK 
ARCHITECTURE 
A. LTE Network Architecture 
The major current limitation is that conventional network 
architecture based on LTE (Long Term Evolution) is not very 
suitable for purely autonomous intelligent operation. First of 
all, it is necessary to reconsider current core network, which 
is responsible for handling all data flows, which come from 
the wireless infrastructure. In current hierarchical architecture, 
each base station is connected to the mobility management 
entity (MME) and serving gateway (S-GW). S-GW 
establishes connection to the packed data network gateway (P-
GW). All information about users is stored in HSS (Home 
Subscriber Server). P-GW is connected to the external IP 
network (i.e. Internet) and to P-GWs of other operators. 
Literally it means that data flow of user should pass the whole 
tree, depending on the particular location [8]. 
 All entities in the can be virtualized by using Docker 
containers. Usually, EPC can be built within one container, 
while eNBs use separate containers. Technically, eNB can be 
combined with EPC in a single container. However, for our 
concept of distributed mobile network based on blockchain we 
keep them separate. 
B. Intelligent Blockchain-Based Distrubuted  Mobile 
Network Infrastructure 
There are two mainstream applications of blockchain 
technology: cryptocurrencies and smart contracts. While 
cryptocurrency is purely an asset of financial market, the 
smart contract allows two parties to agree upon particular 
commercial relationships in the physical world. We exploit 
these two features of blockchain to improve the overall 
technical and economic aspects of the mobile networks.  
First of all, we introduce following entities in the next 
generation wireless communications market (Fig.1). 
 
Fig. 1. Blockchain-based distributed mobile network architecture. 
Spectrum owners. Wireless spectrum is key component 
of any wireless communication system. In conventional 
mobile market, spectrum is licensed by the government for 
particular technology (i.e. LTE, 5G, etc.). Such license can be 
purchased by mobile network operator in order to legally 
provide services to his users. In our model, we assume that 
spectrum market is open, i.e. no one can buy it exclusively. 
Instead, government body owns the entire spectrum and leases 
it to the infrastructure owners (i.e. mobile network operators) 
for specific price per time unit. Technically, such transactions 
can be implemented by using blockchain technology. For 
example, spectrum owner can issue tokens (i.e. 
cryptocurrency assets), which price is equal to 1 Hz/second, 
so that infrastructure owner will have opportunity to access 
the spectrum depends on the amount of tokens in his account.  
Infrastructure owners. Currently, mobile network 
operators heavily invest money in their infrastructure. In our 
model, we propose to use open infrastructure market, so that 
anybody can invest money in the infrastructure and create his 
own mobile virtual network operator (MVNO). Since 
infrastructure consist of wireless base stations and core 
network, they can be separately owned by different entities. 
For example, one can invest in the base station deployment, 
while other will invest in the server which can accommodate 
virtual EPC (Evolved Packet Core), where all required 
functions will be virtualized in a form of virtual machines or 
Docker containers. In this case, they can share the revenues, 
which are paid by end users. Since base station owner needs 
to pay for the spectrum usage to the spectrum owner and core 
network owner needs to pay to the ISP (Internet Service 
Provider), they can set up their profit margins in a way that 
part of the revenue from end users comes directly to the 
spectrum owner and ISP, while pure profit is shared equally 
among them.   
ISP owners. ISP owner provides Internet access to the 
infrastructure owners. Usually, such organizations offer 
monthly subscriptions for fixed price according to agreed SLA 
(Service Level Agreement). Such option is the best, because it 
is agnostic to the traffic volumes that allow to create more 
flexible data plans for the end users. 
End users. In traditional mobile networks, end users are 
equipped with one or few USIM cards, with independent IDs, 
account balances and SLAs. In other words, users are limited 
to the infrastructure of the particular operator. In our    network 
model, we assume that there will be tens or even hundreds of 
different MVNOs, instead of few in traditional mobile 
networks. Of course it will not be feasible for end users to 
manage agreements with so many different MVNOs.  
Therefore, application of blockchain smart contracts seems to 
be promising for such scenario. Each user will have his unique 
global ID and financial account. In the future, 
cryptocurrencies are likely to be adopted globally, so that 
conventional billing systems will be substituted by 
transactions of cryptocurrencies between users and 
infrastructure owners.  
C. Application of Smart Contracts for Mobile Networks 
A smart contract is a computer protocol intended to 
digitally facilitate, verify, or enforce the negotiation or 
execution of a contract between two parties. The main reason 
for smart contract is to enable trust between contractors and 
allow credible transactions without third parties [9]. 
Smart contract can provide the following benefits to the 
5G and future 6G mobile networks. 
Autonomy. Users will no longer be the “prisoners” of the 
operator, by being forced to choose the best data plan among 
the worst ones. Usually, operators offer some cheap option 
which includes very small limits for data and calls, and then 
very expensive one with vast amount of data and calls. In this 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
38 
 
 
situation, many users are forced to pay higher price for 
redundant services. With smart contracts each UE will have 
an intelligent agent, which will automatically negotiate the 
price and service conditions in real-time and switch between 
tens of different operators, while the user personally will not 
have any idea about it.  
Trust. Once user and infrastructure owner agreed upon 
some conditions, they become immutable during the whole 
period of smart contract validity. All conditions are encrypted 
on a shared ledger, and there will be not any possibility for 
operators to modify of violate these conditions.   
Safety. Blockchain provides the security of all 
transactions, so that it is impossible to hack the account of any 
user and steal his money.  
Speed. Blockchain eliminates all paperwork requires to 
negotiate terms and conditions between users and operators, 
as well as between operators and government bodies. All tasks 
in a smart contract are automated by software code that allows 
to save hours of time for all business processes. 
Savings. Smart contracts eliminate the need of complex 
and expensive billing systems that reduces the CAPEX of 
MVNOs, allowing them to enter the market much easier. 
We specify two types of smart contracts. First type is the 
smart contract between user and MVNO (i.e. infrastructure 
owner). This contract can be created by the end user with his 
own request for connection to the mobile network, and then 
MVNOs offer their prices to satisfy this request.  Then, smart 
contact will be executed in a way that user will connect to the 
operator who offers lowest price for the target QoS 
requirements.  
Second type of smart contract is the contract between 
infrastructure owner and spectrum owner. This contract is 
simpler, because its conditions do not imply any quality 
policies. Infrastructure owner just pays for the used spectrum 
timely depends on the conditions specified in a smart contract. 
D. Unlicensed Spectrum Sharing Based on Blockchain  
Utilization of unlicensed spectrum has been widely 
welcomed due to the vast amount of resources, which are free 
to use and quite often available. One of the biggest problems 
for unlicensed spectrum utilization is the competition between 
mobile network operators. In [10] we have developed the 
coalitional spectrum sharing game with perfect information 
and updatable payoffs,  
In this paper, we have further developed a coalitional game 
between operators for unlicensed spectrum sharing based on 
blockchain technology. In order to ensure the fair utilization 
of the spectrum, we introduce a virtual cryptocurrency, which 
has no value in any fiat currency, because unlicensed spectrum 
is free to use. Instead, value of one token will be equal to 180 
kHz/s in unlicensed spectrum, which corresponds to the 
smallest bandwidth that can be allocated for mobile user in 
modern LTE mobile networks. Note that token value is a float 
non-negative number, i.e. values less than 1 are possible. The 
workflow of the proposed algorithm is described below. 
 Step 1. Initially, tokens are distributed equally among all 
mobile network operators, which are participating in the 
spectrum sharing.   
,  [1, ]k
Mm k n
n
= ∈ ,   (1) 
where mk – initial number of tokens for network operator k, 
Step 2. Each operator utilizes the unlicensed spectrum by 
spending tokens from his account. 
,  [1, ]k k km m p k nω′ = − ⋅ ∈ ,  (2) 
where kω  – is the amount of utilized spectrum, p –    spectrum 
price per second.   
 Step 3. Tokens, which are spent by the operator are 
equally shared between all other participating operators by 
using blockchain transactions. 
,  , [1, ]
i i
i k
k
m p
m k i n
n
ω
≠
− ⋅
′ = ∈
�
. (3) 
Proposed approach allows explicitly defining and 
executing the conditions of spectrum sharing, while 
preventing selfish behavior of the operator. Once, any 
operator attempts to utilize more resources than others, his 
account balance will be spent very quickly and he will end up 
with zero tokens. Since, everything is executed by blockchain, 
selfish operators will not be able to utilize the unlicensed 
spectrum until his balance will increase again.  
Such scenario can be simply described in terms of game 
theory, where each operator acts as an independent player and 
choose his strategy of unlicensed spectrum utilization. By the 
strategy we assume how much bandwidth operator will try to 
utilize for his users. Considering the limited amount of tokens, 
the best strategy for operator is to balance his input and output 
flows of tokens. In order to achieve that, the best option is to 
use less or equal bandwidth with other operators. Thus, the 
Nash Equilibrium strategy of an operator will be: 
,  [1, ]k
W k n
n
ω = ∈ ,  (4) 
where n – is the number of mobile network operators 
participating in spectrum sharing, W – the total available 
bandwidth. 
III. SIMULATIONS OF THE PROPOSED BLOCKCHAIN-BASED 
SPECTRUM SHARING GAME 
In order to study the performance of the proposed 
algorithm, we have developed spectrum sharing game in 
unlicensed spectrum.  We use 540 MHz of spectrum in 5 GHz 
ISM band. For this case, we issue 1800 tokens, which is equal 
to the entire spectrum utilization during one minute. For 
simulations, we assume that network is saturated, so that all 
total spectrum usage of all operators is 100 percent. Fig. 2 
shows the throughput for the case of random spectrum sharing 
between two operators.  As we can notice from the Fig.2, the 
divergence of throughput is very high, e.g. there are period 
when one operator benefit from using the entire band, while 
other is not even able to communicate. For our proposed 
algorithm, we observe that initially, the same divergence of 
throughput between operators exists, but later operators are 
quickly balance it equally by using the transactions of virtual 
cryptocurrency (Fig.3). Fig. 4 shows how account balance of 
operators changes for the same timeframe as throughput. It is 
noticeable that while operator A use the bandwidth over his 
norm, his account balance decreases proportionally, because 
he sends cryptocurrency to operator B. Then, operator B 
appear to have more cryptocurrency, so that he starts to use 
more spectrum than operator A. Finally, divergence 
diminishes and both operators reach the Nash equilibrium, 
when they use equal amount of bandwidth and their income of 
cryptocurrency is balanced with spending. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
39 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Throughput in case of random spectrum sharing between two 
operators in unlicensed spectrum. 
 
Fig. 3. Throughput in case of blockchain-based spectrum sharing between 
two operators in unlicensed spectrum. 
 
Fig. 4. Account balance in case of blockchain-based spectrum sharing. 
 
 
 
 
CONCLUSION  
In this paper, we propose a new architecture of blockchain-
based intelligent mobile network operation. Proposed 
blockchain-based mobile network allows to perform all 
relationships between users and operators by using smart 
contracts. Moreover, relationships between operators will also 
be based on smart contracts and cryptocurrencies, which will 
simplify the spectrum and infrastructure sharing. Simulation 
results shows that proposed blockchain-based algorithm 
allows to achieve the fair utilization of unlicensed spectrum 
by each network operator. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT  
This research is supported by the project No. 
0117U007177 funded by Ukrainian government, by the 
Slovak Research and Development Agency, project number 
APVV-18-0214, and by National Natural Science Foundation 
of China (No. 61561035). 
REFERENCES 
[1] T. Maksymyuk et al., “Deployment strategies and standardization 
perspectives for 5G mobile networks,” IEEE Int. Conf. on the Modern 
Problems of Radio Engineering, Telecommunications and Computer 
Science (TCSET’2016), Lviv-Slavske, Ukraine, pp. 953-956, Feb. 
2016. 
[2] M. Klymash et al. "Method for optimal use of 4G/5G heterogeneous 
network resourses under M2M/IoT traffic growth conditions," 2017 
International Conference on Information and Telecommunication 
Technologies and Radio Electronics (UkrMiCo), Odessa, 2017, pp. 1-
5. 
[3] H. Klessig, D. Ohmann, A. I. Reppas, H. Hatzikirou, M. Abedi, ¨M. 
Simsek, and G. P. Fettweis, “From immune cells to self-organizing 
ultra-dense small cell networks,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in 
Communications, vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 800–811, 2016. 
[4] J. Moysen, L. Giupponi, “From 4G to 5G: Self-organized network 
management meets machine learning,” arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1707.09300, 2017 
[5] T. Maksymyuk et al., “An IoT based Monitoring Framework for 
Software Defined 5G Mobile Networks”, Proceedings of the 11th 
ACM Int. Conf. on Ubiquitous Information Management and 
Communication (IMCOM’2017), article #5-4, Jan. 5-7, 2017. 
[6] H. Beshley et al., "Method of Information Flows Engineering and 
Resource Distribution in 4G/5G Heterogeneous Network for M2M 
Service Provisioning," 2018 IEEE 4th (IDAACS-SWS), Lviv, 2018, 
pp. 229-233 
[7] B. Mafakheri, T. Subramanya, L. Goratti, R. Riggio, “Blockchain-
based Infrastructure Sharing in 5G Small Cell Networks,” 14th 
International Conference on Network and Service Management 
(CNSM), 2018  
[8] M. Klymash et al., "Algorithm for clusterization, aggregation and 
prioritization of M2M devices in heterogeneous 4G/5G network," 2017 
4th International Scientific-Practical Conference Problems of 
Infocommunications. Science and Technology (PIC S&T), Kharkov, 
2017, pp. 182-186. 
[9] P. Hegedus, “Towards Analyzing the Complexity Landscape of 
Solidity Based Ethereum Smart Contracts,” IEEE/ACM 1st 
International Workshop on Emerging Trends in Software Engineering 
for Blockchain (WETSEB), 2018 
[10] T. Maksymyuk et al., “Game theoretical framework for multi-operator 
spectrum sharing in 5G heterogeneous networks,” 4th International 
Scientific-Practical Conference Problems of Infocommunications. 
Science and Technology (PIC S&T), pp. 515-518, 2017. 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:21:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.