Users’ Perceptions of Key Blockchain Features in Games
Citation: Paajala, I.; Nyyssölä, J.;
Mattila, J.; Karppinen, P. Users’
Perceptions of Key Blockchain
Features in Games. Future Internet
2022, 14, 321. https://doi.org/
10.3390/fi14110321
Academic Editors: Christoph Stach
and Clémentine Gritti
Received: 10 October 2022
Accepted: 31 October 2022
Published: 4 November 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
future internet
Article
Users’ Perceptions of Key Blockchain Features in Games
Iikka Paajala 1,*, Jesse Nyyssölä 1, Juho Mattila 1,2 and Pasi Karppinen 1
1 Faculty of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering, University of Oulu, Pentti Kaiteran katu 1,
90570 Oulu, Finland
2 Ikune Labs, Loukkutie 11 A1, 90540 Oulu, Finland
* Correspondence: iikka.paajala@oulu.fi; Tel.: +35-84-4010-1802
Abstract: The blockchain is an emerging technology that has the potential to revolutionize the
gaming industry among a wide range of different business fields. So far, only a few studies have
been conducted about blockchain gaming. This study introduces a mobile game utilizing blockchain
asset tokens and smart contracts. It was developed for research purposes and used to demonstrate
blockchain-based games using semi-structured interviews. This study follows the exploratory
research paradigm, which aims to map research of little-known areas. This study focuses on how
participants perceived blockchain attributes such as trust, transparency, and user-generated content
and how this affected engagement and their willingness to play the game again. Based on our
evaluation, generating blockchain assets positively impacted player retention. According to the
results, providing genuine asset ownership through the blockchain contributes to environmental
engagement and self-engagement, as well as player retention. Another positive blockchain feature
discovered from the interview data is user-generated content implementation into games.
Keywords: blockchain; games; non-fungible token; qualitative study
1. Introduction
Blockchain is an emerging technology that has the potential to revolutionize the
gaming industry among a wide range of different business fields [1–3]. Information systems
research about the blockchain has remained scarce, and the need for more academic studies
has been notable in recent years [3,4].
Blockchain games have not yet been able to leave a mark in the gaming industry;
nevertheless, the fusion of games and blockchain shows immense potential [5,6]. So far,
only a very few studies have been conducted about the usefulness of the blockchain in
gaming [3]. The most well-known blockchain game Cryptokitties has been studied at least
by Min et al. [3] and Jiang & Liu [7]. A systematic literature review on blockchain-based
applications by Casino et al. [8] and Ali et al. [1] did not address blockchain games at all.
Only a few years ago, the majority of blockchain studies were about Bitcoin [4]. Nowadays,
research has also been done in sectors such as finance, government, manufacturing, and
health [1,8]. Blockchain is still a relatively novel technology, and research on other topics
will gradually emerge [2], and the expectations of blockchain will increase the demand for
blockchain applications [9].
The use of the blockchain has several benefits [10]. For example, trust and transparency
are argued to be inherent blockchain features [11]. In the gaming context, transparent
blockchain data enables the players or third-party stakeholders to audit the smart con-
tract and related game rules, enhancing the game’s trustworthiness [3]. With the use of
blockchain token technology, users generating their own content for games can be granted
ownership and compensation via smart contracts [10]. This can encourage players to
participate in content creation in several ways [3,10].
Player retention is crucial to the success of a mobile game [12] since not all mobile
gamers return to the game after trying it shortly after its installation [13]. Player engage-
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321. https://doi.org/10.3390/fi14110321 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet
https://doi.org/10.3390/fi14110321
https://doi.org/10.3390/fi14110321
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-7800-8243
https://doi.org/10.3390/fi14110321
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/futureinternet
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/fi14110321?type=check_update&version=1
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 2 of 16
ment in game analytics aims to measure a user’s behavior related to a particular game.
Bouvier et al. [14] described engagement in terms of attention, immersion, involvement,
presence, and flow.
This study introduces a mobile game, IkuneRacers, utilizing blockchain asset tokens
and smart contracts. The game was developed for research purposes at the University of
Oulu. This IT artifact was used as demonstration material when conducting semi-structured
interviews. Based on the data analysis, key themes and categories were recognized. The
aim of this study is to evaluate trust, transparency, and user-generated content through
artifact demonstration and interviews. Furthermore, we examine whether blockchain
implementation can influence player retention and engagement.
The research questions are:
RQ1: How do players perceive transparency, trust, and user-generated content in
blockchain games?
RQ2: Does blockchain game implementation influence users’ perception of their
engagement and player retention?
The structure of the paper is as follows. First, we introduce blockchain research,
how blockchain assets are related to games, and studies on player retention and engagement.
After that, we explain how our blockchain game (demonstration material) was designed,
the research methods, and how the data was collected. The results are presented in
Chapter 4. Chapter 5 includes a discussion and draws conclusions, and presents future
research opportunities and limitations of the study.
The presented data were collected for a master’s thesis by one of the authors.
2. Background
Thus far, the blockchain has been primarily studied in practitioner literature in com-
puter science and cryptography studies, but theory and empirically driven IS research
on the blockchain is gradually emerging [15]. Rossi et al. [15] assess existing research on
blockchains and provide a framework for blockchain research in information systems (IS).
In their framework, the authors [15] provide research agendas for several fields in IS, from
which ’Agenda for behavioral IS research on the blockchain’ is the most relevant for this
study. Rossi et al. [15] call for more studies on the blockchain to be done either on the
protocol level, application level, or in between. On an application level, one crucial issue is
blockchain adoption [15]. Although several promising blockchain applications have been
proposed, widespread adoption is rare [2]. Rossi et al. [15] believe privacy, security, and
scalability are key factors, and research on these topics could make both academic and
practical contributions [15].
2.1. Blockchain Assets and Games
A blockchain game can offer the potential of true ownership of crypto assets, as
the asset ownership can be stored with a smart contract to the blockchain. Also, smart
contracts enable the transfer of assets without third-party involvement [16]. Pillai, Biswas,
and Muthukkumarasamy [17] define crypto assets as digital assets that are stored on
the blockchain and utilize various techniques (e.g., cryptography, distributed consensus,
peer-to-peer network, smart contract) to create, transact, and verify in a decentralized
manner. They presented three categories of crypto assets: asset-tokens, crypto-coins, and
utility-tokens. In their framework, the assets can be classified based on the fungibility and
tangibility of the asset [17]. Table 1 illustrates the characteristics of different digital tokens,
and Table 2 further explains them. In the context of the blockchain, a token is tangible
if it represents something with a tangible existence, such as company shares or digital
art. Tangible tokens can also represent ownership, e.g., in a physical world like property
or a car [17]. If the asset is unique, it cannot be traded directly into similar tokens (aka
a non-fungible token, NFT). An asset is fungible if it is exchangeable using a common
standard, value, and characteristics like crypto coins (i.e., cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin
and Ether), which are fungible and intangible assets used as a means of exchange. Lastly,
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 3 of 16
utility tokens are intangible and non-fungible and represent access to a product or service
and also serve paying functions [17,18]. One example of utility tokens is the ERC-20 token
standard used in the Ethereum network [18]. Asset-tokens can be fungible or non-fungible.
Pillai, Biswas, and Muthukkumarasamy [17] use the CryptoKitties game as an example of
tangible and non-fungible asset-tokens. It has similar principles to what was used when
designing this game. In Cryptokitties, players “breed” digital cats ‘CryptoKitties’, which
are non-fungible tokens (ERC-721 token standard), as each is unique [19].
Table 1. Types of digital assets [17].
Tangible Intangible
Non-Fungible Asset-token Utility-token
ERC-21 token
passport Service
Fungible Asset-token Cryptocoins
ERC-20-token
Car
Bitcoin
Ether
Table 2. Further explanation of crypto assets. Table modified from Pillai, Biswas and Muthukku-
marasamy [17].
Crypto Assets
Crypto Coins Asset Tokens Utility Tokens
Fungibility Fungible Fungible or non-fungible Non-fungible
Tangibility Intangible Tangible Intangible
Represents Digital object, medium of exchange Object with tangible characteristic Digital object providing access rights
Example Bitcoin, ETH Car, property, NFT Service, subscription
Min et al. [3] categorized blockchain-based games and divided them into four groups
based on their utilized blockchain characteristics: rule transparency, asset ownership,
(cross-platform) asset reusability, and user-created content. Curran [5] added to that list
decentralized asset ownership and exchange, fast and secure payment networks, and the
ability for developers to monetize their creations. The most popular blockchain-based
benefits for games are rule transparency (i.e., gambling) and asset ownership (i.e., collecting
in-game items) [5]. Standardized cross-platform asset reusability could benefit games
utilizing asset ownership [5]. The ownership of an individual crypto asset can be validated
using smart contract standards, which adds trust to the system and therefore gives the
users confidence to invest in it [5].
2.2. Blockchain Trust, Transparency, and User-Generated Content
According to Queiroz and Wamba [11], both trust and transparency are built-in
blockchain features. In fact, blockchain systems tend to be safer and more transparent
than regular databases [8]. In the blockchain environment, transparency also covers as-
set trading [16]. As blockchain-based public ledgers are transparent, trust in the system
increases [10,11]. In the gaming environment, this allows the players or third-party stake-
holders to audit the smart contract and related game rules [3]. A further aspect of the
blockchain, the reduced need for intermediaries, can also benefit the developers as they
can build and distribute their products directly to the customer via smart contracts [5].
User-generated content can be used to create and update game elements, which
can be crucial in retaining veteran players [3]. However, this topic can include built-in
development opportunities for users, especially in blockchain game environments, and the
created material can even be preserved and shared among multiple games. Furthermore,
blockchain can store the ownership information of user-generated material. Blockchain
and smart contracts have also been proposed as a method for paying for contributions to
intellectual property [10]. These characteristics suggest that blockchain implementation can
encourage players to participate in content creation in several ways [3,10]. As an example,
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 4 of 16
in the game Last Trip, the developers provide story frames whereby the players contribute
content to the game [3].
Although blockchain technology enables co-content creation by developers and non-
developers alike, this study concentrates on asset ownership within the possibilities of
blockchain technology. Asset ownership was implemented on the application on the first
(and current) iteration.
2.3. Retention and Engagement
Predicting player retention is crucial to the success of a mobile game [12]. The reason
for this is that a considerable number of mobile gamers do not return to the game after
trying it shortly after its installation [13]. Player retention can be measured in numerous
ways, one being the ‘Retention profile,’ which provides valuable information for the
developers on how different user segments and cohorts play the game and how long they
will keep playing [20]. Drachen et al. [12] analyzed variables that affect player retention
in a free-to-play mobile game with a dataset of over 130,000 players. The key findings
of the study were that the most positive predictors of retention included variables that
tracked long and consistent participation. An interesting finding by Drachen et al. [12] was
that good results in the early stages resulted in lower retention, which suggests that the
players found the games too easy and lost interest. However, according to Weber et al. [21],
games should not be too hard to play either. The blockchain-related issue of the gas fee has
been proven to affect player retention [22], but this paper does not attempt to study that
phenomenon further.
Bouvier et al. [14] described engagement with the terms: attention, immersion, in-
volvement, presence, and flow. When a player’s attention is towards game content, but the
consciousness is in the real world, the state is engagement. When the player’s conscious-
ness shifts into the game world, the player feels a presence, and flow is an action-oriented
aspect of presence [14]. In addition, gamers eventually abandon the game without proper
motivation [23]. Motivation can be divided into intrinsic (playing the game itself) and
extrinsic motivations (e.g., rewards and punishments) [24]. Concentrating on intrinsic rea-
sons, motivation can be further divided into human needs, such as competence, autonomy,
and relatedness [24]. These needs are positively linked to game enjoyment. The need for
competence in games is met through challenges and goals. The need for autonomy is met
if the player is given the power to make choices during the gameplay. Relatedness can be
satisfied if games offer social or online interactions [24]. In this study, we are not measuring
flow, although we do ask for interviewees’ opinions on the matter.
3. Research Methods
To find answers to research questions involving such novel technology and topics as
blockchain and asset tokens, we build an artifact to demonstrate a blockchain-based game
and tokens to support the interviews. The interviewees got familiar with the game and the
selected blockchain mechanics prior to the interviews.
This study follows the exploratory research paradigm (e.g., [25], which is described
as mapping research of little-known areas of study. It aims to discover the nature of the
problem and guide academics to understand it better. Exploratory research is flexible and
can use both quantitative and qualitative methods. However, exploratory research does
not aim to test a hypothesis based on existing theories and knowledge.
3.1. The Artifact
The artifact developed in this study is a blockchain-based mobile multiplayer game
prototype. The game is a turn-based racing game where players tap their cars for them to
move forward. The game demonstrates blockchain features, as the cars, including their
attributes, such as name, color, and speed, are blockchain items. Additionally, the user
accounts are managed via smart contracts. In the current version of the game, players
receive a prize in the form of coins for participating in races, which can generate more cars.
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 5 of 16
Figure 1 illustrates the garage screen view of the designed game. Racer names are
generated randomly and work as a seed for the blockchain to calculate attributes for the
racer object. The column “Dice” shows the speed value of the car, which consists of three
dice-related attributes, which are represented in the format “xDy + z.” Here, x refers to
the number of dice thrown, whereas D is short for dice, y represents the number of die
sides, and z is a constant modifier added to each result. In addition to the dice values,
the blockchain stores several other values, like the racer’s level, its model and color, the
number of wins, and the races it has participated in. The model and color of the racers
are values stored in the blockchain, but apart from other attributes, they are represented
visually, as shown in a table format on the garage page (Figure 1).
Future Internet 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW 5 of 17 
 
 
can use both quantitative and qualitative methods. However, exploratory research does 
not aim to test a hypothesis based on existing theories and knowledge. 
3.1. The Artifact 
The artifact developed in this study is a blockchain-based mobile multiplayer game 
prototype. The game is a turn-based racing game where players tap their cars for them to 
move forward. The game demonstrates blockchain features, as the cars, including their 
attributes, such as name, color, and speed, are blockchain items. Additionally, the user 
accounts are managed via smart contracts. In the current version of the game, players 
receive a prize in the form of coins for participating in races, which can generate more cars. 
Figure 1 illustrates the garage screen view of the designed game. Racer names are 
generated randomly and work as a seed for the blockchain to calculate attributes for the 
racer object. The column “Dice” shows the speed value of the car, which consists of three 
dice-related attributes, which are represented in the format “xDy + z.” Here, x refers to 
the number of dice thrown, whereas D is short for dice, y represents the number of die 
sides, and z is a constant modifier added to each result. In addition to the dice values, the 
blockchain stores several other values, like the racer’s level, its model and color, the num-
ber of wins, and the races it has participated in. The model and color of the racers are 
values stored in the blockchain, but apart from other attributes, they are represented vis-
ually, as shown in a table format on the garage page (Figure 1). 
 
Figure 1. Garage view of the game. 
For blockchain implementation, the platform used was Loom, which is meant for de-
centralized applications and includes a software development kit (SDK). For develop-
ment, testing, and data gathering purposes, we used the testnet provided by Loom called 
Extdev instead of the Ethereum or the Loom mainnet. Extdev is free for development pur-
poses and has the same functionality as the mainnet, including a web platform that ena-
bles examining the generated blocks. Both the Ethereum and Loom mainnets require to-
kens that have real-world value. 
The smart contracts of the application were written in a Solidity language and built 
and deployed with Truffle. Smart contracts define the way the data is stored in the block-
chain, and the functions used to manage the blockchain and applications built on it. Visual 
Studio Code (text editor) with a Solidity extension was used for development, while Vis-
ual Studio 2019 was chosen for Unity development. Loom’s SDK enabled implementing 
queries to the blockchain as if they were built locally. This made it possible to retrieve 
relevant data from the blockchain. 
As indicated by Rossi et al. [15], designing smart contracts for the artifact plays a key 
role in blockchain implementation. The smart contracts followed many of the principles 
Figure 1. Garage view of the game.
For blockchain implementation, the platform used was Loom, which is meant for de-
centralized applications and includes a software development kit (SDK). For development,
testing, and data gathering purposes, we used the testnet provided by Loom called Extdev
instead of the Ethereum or the Loom mainnet. Extdev is free for development purposes and
has the same functionality as the mainnet, including a web platform that enables examining
the generated blocks. Both the Ethereum and Loom mainnets require tokens that have
real-world value.
The smart contracts of the application were written in a Solidity language and built and
deployed with Truffle. Smart contracts define the way the data is stored in the blockchain,
and the functions used to manage the blockchain and applications built on it. Visual Studio
Code (text editor) with a Solidity extension was used for development, while Visual Studio
2019 was chosen for Unity development. Loom’s SDK enabled implementing queries to
the blockchain as if they were built locally. This made it possible to retrieve relevant data
from the blockchain.
As indicated by Rossi et al. [15], designing smart contracts for the artifact plays a key
role in blockchain implementation. The smart contracts followed many of the principles
by Tonelli et al. [26] to make them modular and service-oriented. The smart contract
functionality in the game in this study was based on well-defined autonomous tasks and
was, therefore, authority-free, which means that there were no privileges or exclusive
rights written in the code of the blockchain interactions. To minimize the risks of smart
contract-related logical errors and software bugs, it was decided to have only the racer and
account data stored and managed on the blockchain while everything else is handled by the
client. Well-defined and autonomous smart contract tasks also help to reduce complexity
and therefore reduce the mentioned risks.
The account is identified based on the private key. When creating an account,
the “GenerateKeys()” function is called. Based on this key, the client will use a hash function
to calculate its address, which the blockchain will use to identify the user.
“GetAccountName()” is called without parameters as the contract knows who is calling
based on the address.
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 6 of 16
3.2. Demonstrations and Interviews
Ten game demonstrations, along with semi-structured interview sessions, were con-
ducted either face-to-face or online due to the COVID-19 pandemic in the spring of 2020.
During the online meetings, the participants could not try the artifact themselves but had to
rely on a thorough gameplay demonstration through screen sharing. Two of the interviews
were held in English, and the other eight were in Finnish. Some of the interviewees were
recruited based on their participation in a blockchain course at the university, while others
were recruited through personal connections.
All the participants were studying or graduated from the University of Oulu or Oulu
University of Applied Sciences. Three of the interviewees were studying in or had a degree
from a university of applied sciences, and the other seven were studying in or had a degree
from a university.
Because the blockchain is a novel technology and could be unfamiliar to the general
population, a demonstration of the artifact and explanation relevant to blockchain-related
qualities took place prior to the interviews. This is supported by Schultze and Avital [27],
as the purpose is not to affect interviewee responses but to hand out more perspectives
for interviews. The artifact was demonstrated to 10 participants before being interviewed.
The demonstration included a hands-on gameplay session (face-to-face) or a gameplay
showcase (online), open discussion on the game and blockchain, and showcasing the
generated blocks on the web platform. All the interviews were conducted, recorded, and
coded by the second author.
After the game demonstration, the conducted interview consisted of questions focused
on the topics presented in the Background section. These include how interview partici-
pants regard blockchain-related aspects (such as asset ownership, asset value, immutability,
transparency, security, and trust) and how those are linked to video game characteristics
like retention and engagement.
The interview question structure contained the following five topics:
1. Background questions
2. What makes assets valuable
3. Asset ownership and the lack of a trusted third party
4. Data on the blockchain is immutable and transparent
5. Security and trust of blockchain systems
The interviews were semi-structured and utilized laddering, and the questions de-
pended on those elements the interviewees found personally meaningful. Interviews
followed the method by Schultze and Avital [27] to collect relevant data for this study. For
interview perspectives, Schultze and Avital [27] take up a combination of localistic and
romantic views. The localistic view allows the interview to be a platform for activities, i.e.,
political action or impression management, which is affected by different contexts, such
as the interviewee’s age or gender. In a way, interviews are seen as windows into social
reality [27]. In the romantic view, interviews are conversations in which the interviewer can
participate and intervene when necessary [27]. Naturally, the interviewer is not fishing for
preferred answers but handing out more perspectives [28]. Also, according to Holsten and
Gubrium [28], interviews are not only for stating facts but also for constructing meanings.
Schultze and Avital [27] suggest three scientific interviewing methods that can be
used for IS research. These are appreciative, laddering, and photo-diary interviewing. For
this study, the laddering interviewing method was selected. In practice, questions such as
“How do X and Y differ from Z?” are used to make distinctions between elements. On the
other hand, questions like “Why is Z important?” aims to create a meaningful connection
between elements [27]. Here, the interviews aimed to identify the meaningful connections
between video games and blockchain features.
Because blockchain is a novel technology and could be unfamiliar to the general
population, a demonstration of artifacts and explanations of relevant blockchain-related
qualities took place prior to the interviews. This is supported by Schultze and Avital [27],
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 7 of 16
as the purpose is not to affect interviewee responses but to hand out more perspectives for
interviews.
After demonstrating the game, the conducted interview consisted of questions focused
on the topics presented in the Background section. These include how interview partici-
pants regard blockchain-related aspects (such as asset ownership, asset value, immutability,
transparency, security, and trust) and how those are linked to video game characteristics
like retention and engagement.
The interview question structure contained the following five topics:
1. Background questions
2. What makes assets valuable
3. Asset ownership and the lack of trusted third party
4. Data on blockchain being immutable and transparent
5. Security and trust of blockchain systems
The interviews were semi-structured and utilized laddering, and the questions de-
pended on those elements the interviewees found personally meaningful. Table 3 presents
the interview method and language used in interviews. The interview questions are listed
by the topic in the Appendix A.
Table 3. The interview method and language of the interviewee.
Interviewee Number Interview Method Interview Language
#1 Face-to-face meeting English
#2 Face-to-face meeting English
#3 Online meeting Finnish
#4 Face-to-face meeting Finnish
#5 Online meeting Finnish
#6 Online meeting Finnish
#7 Online meeting Finnish
#8 Online meeting Finnish
#9 Online meeting Finnish
#10 Online meeting Finnish
3.3. Data Analysis
The data analysis followed a thematic analysis suggested by Terry et al. [29], and it
consisted of six steps. The first step is familiarization, wherein some insights are gained
from the data. Here the entire dataset is gone through, notes are taken, and some early
analytic ideas are formed. [29] In the second step, the data is reduced and organized into
patterns. The data mass becomes an easily organizable set of labels, which are generated
based on the relevancy of the research questions. This might indicate that some datasets
have several labels and some none [29].
Theme development is a process of pattern identification, and that happens in the
third step of the thematic analysis [29]. A central idea or concept supporting a set of codes
is developed for a theme. According to Terry et al. [29], in this step, visual aids, such as
tables and figures, are crucial to demonstrating different themes and relationships between
them, as well as identifying new themes.
In the fourth step, the themes are reviewed so that they work with the labeled data,
datasets, and research questions. The fifth step is the phase for defining the theme, whereby
the researcher interprets and describes each theme and its representation. Also, “thin”
themes are dropped out. The sixth and final step is reporting [29].
4. Results
The research results reported here focus on blockchain issues of transparency, trust,
user-generated content, player retention, and engagement. Also, some gameplay (involving
the blockchain) improvement suggestions were gathered from the interviews, including
a leveling system wherein the players can improve and customize their garages and
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 8 of 16
cars. The interviewees were also interested in generating blockchain objects and were
hoping to see more content on that. In the following sections, the participants’ (P1–P10)
responses are divided into themes in accordance with the research questions. Some of the
participants’ quotations include comments in parentheses that represent the interviewer’s
interpretations. Interview topics and identified themes and subthemes are presented in
Table 4. The interview data is from the master’s thesis of Jesse Nyyssölä [30].
Table 4. Interview topics and corresponding themes with sub-themes.
Interview Topic Themes Sub-Themes
General questions
Personal relationship with video games
Personal motivation
Emotions in video games
Blockchain-related experience
Cryptocurrencies
Blockchain games
Blockchain-related experience
Suggestions for improvement
Retention on artefact
Engagement on artefact
What makes assets valuable
What gives value to an asset?
Assets with monetary value
Assets with non-monetary value
Giving all assets monetary value (i.e., making them
sellable and purchasable)
Financial incentive
Unfair playing field in video games
Asset ownership and the lack of a trusted third party
Authorities over data in a video game context
Authorities controlling/ exploiting
High prerequisites for authority-free environment
Exchange through a central system as opposed to
person-to-person
Convenience of centralized system
Social aspect of person-to-person exchange
Actual ownership of virtual assets
Data on the blockchain, immutable and transparent
The effects of transparency in video games and IS
Traceability and accountability
Privacy concerns
Third-party involvement in video games
Continued support
Modding
Security and trust on the blockchain Trust on the blockchain
4.1. Retention, Engagement, and Gaming Experience
General questions included basic questions about the artifact and gaming and back-
ground information about the participant. For the question, ‘Why do participants choose
to play video games over other forms of media entertainment,’ the major answer included
mentions of active participation in games (nearly all participants) or social aspects of games
(P3, P7, P10). Answers also included topics such as ‘Autonomy over your character’ (P4,
P6, P8) and the ‘Variety of environments and interacting with it,’ while one interviewee
focused on the role of thinking and decision-making as the following quotation reveals:
“Video games are great because you get to use your brain, create things yourself, decide
on the course of the events yourself, how it is going, what you are allowed to do, what you
want to do. In streaming services, you can choose what to watch.” (P8)
Playing video games can be relaxing and reduce stress by giving something else to
think about (P8). Also, the feeling of immersion was mentioned (P3). Most participants
noted that playing video games involves a wide range of emotions, including excitement,
annoyance, nostalgia, and fearfulness:
“If you are looking for alleviating stress, it (the emotion) can be, for example, calmness.
For example, in some role-playing games like Witcher, you can see yourself running in
the virtual world and hear the wind in your ears, and some music can calm the situation
at the same time. It is so versatile in terms of which emotions and senses touch you.” (P6)
The interviewees who stated their interest in video games knew little or nothing
about blockchains. Some of them knew about Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies, but the
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 9 of 16
participants who were interested in the blockchain had more varied background knowledge
on the topic. For games in general, they suggested a few blockchain-related character-
istics, such as the private key (P5), currency conversion (P6), asset ownership (P9), and
asset reusability (P3). Specifically for the artifact, seven participants suggested improve-
ments, including more customization, visual aids, and more refined progression and
competition systems.
“I like the idea of cross-platform or cross-game related things very much. [ . . . ] If we
imagine that you have a Mario game and they would release four different games where
you could get this cross-stuff from each game so that you could shuffle them around with
this blockchain-like idea, I would probably buy them all. [29]” (P3)
One participant (P2) stated that the game was not interesting, but the blockchain
implementation seemed interesting from a technical point of view. Another participant
(P3) also noted that the genre of the game is not relevant, but the uniqueness of the
virtual assets provides an exciting setting. Another participant saw the game just as a
technical demonstration but, at the same time, supported the core ideas of the blockchain
functionality:
“I would play a game like that, but of course not with cars because I think cars are the
most boring thing. However, if we were to say that something like Diablo would work
that way, that all items are blockchain objects, it would be a really good thing. Having
items in a game be reflected in the outer world or other currency, I do not see that it would
make any game worse. [29]” (P8)
Four participants stated that they might want to play again (P2, P4, P6, P10). This was
largely attributed to the interest in generating new cars. However, two participants (P2,
P10) said that they would only play it a few times because the game lacked meaningful
gameplay content.
When asked about the perceived engagement of the artifact, the answers varied.
One noted that the current game is not engaging, but the fundamental idea of a car race
could be (P9). Two participants noted that the competitive spirit of a car race was an
engaging factor (P4, P6). Two participants were keen on generating tokens (P5, P8). For one
participant, the engagement was enabled by the possibility of progressing to better vehicles
(P7). Re-playability (retention) and engagement by participants are shown in Table 5.
Table 5. Summary of the answers regarding re-playability and engagement.
Play Again Engaged
Yes 4 2
No 3 2
No answer 3 1
Partly - 5
To ensure that the participants could assess the effects of the blockchain regarding
assets, it was necessary to establish how the participants perceived the value of their assets
in general. All the interviewees gave an example of a valuable item in a video game, and
some could distinguish between an item with monetary value and a non-monetary value.
One participant gave an example of both types of valuable items:
“In Player Unknown’s Battlegrounds, I had things that could be converted by selling to
Steam currency, and that could be used to buy any games sold on Steam. Additionally,
in games like the World of Warcraft, if you have spent a couple of years trying to find a
certain item that you have a chance to get only once a week with a drop rate lower than
one percent, so even if it is not in any way significant or it does not have monetary value,
it still feels good to achieve it.” (P5)
When asked if the instrumental value of the game item could be made exchangeable
with the value of money, some respondents feared that (at its worst) one would be able to
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 10 of 16
buy a competitive advantage. The topic was complicated since there are positive ideas of
combining real money with games, like being able to sell your items after quitting the game
(financial incentive), but also negative aspects like bots and possibly an unfair playing field.
The most supportive comment was the following:
“It would not bother me even if we could trade genuinely valuable things. That would be
fun. I can hear how my money goes down the drain. On the other hand, if everything was
for sale, it could mean that using so-called ‘honest methods,’ it would be really difficult
to get those items. That could be one negative drawback affecting people playing the
game.”(P3)
One interviewee considered not spending money on video games to be a part of the
challenge of the game:
“The worst thing you can do is that you buy with money the best item you can get. The
game is over at that point. So, you are paying money so that you do not want to play the
game anymore.” (P8)
Regarding the preference of trading person-to-person versus through a centralized
system, most participants agreed that the option with the central system is better because it
is often more convenient. However, there were also respondents (P6, P8) who advocated
for person-to-person trading:
“Old RuneScape did not have Grand Exchange yet, . . . so people would gather in these
trade worlds where thousands of people were in one place shouting what they wanted to
sell. Some people wanted money in return, but some traded items for other items. It was
a really functional and extremely pleasant social event where people were gathering as if
they were at a marketplace.” (P6)
4.2. Transparency, Trust, and User-Generated Content
Transparency of video game data was one of our interview foci. This chapter presents
findings regarding blockchain transparency, trust, and user-generated content. Trans-
parency is related to the themes of traceability, accountability, and privacy concerns. One
participant (P1) underlined the distinction between transparency and public data:
“I think transparency is important for everything. I have been contemplating public
and private data for some time. While I believe that even if it is private, it should be
transparent, not all private data can be public. Transparent means that you can see a log
of the actions, and [so can] the public, [ . . . ] everybody can also see the data.” (P1)
According to one interviewee (P9), transparency can improve traceability and reduce
application abuse. Five participants (P2–5, P6 & P10) pondered privacy issues.
“Surely it (transparent data in a system) is not better than private. If I happen to sell
something, I do not want everybody to check that ‘Oh, they sold that.’ [ . . . ] If it does
not enable everyone to see something that a regular guy would like to keep hidden, then it
is not necessarily a bad thing.” (P10)
The interviewee’s comments on trust in the blockchain were mixed. None of the
participants could give a direct “yes” or “no” answer to the question, “From what you
have experienced, would you say that you trust the blockchain?” Only three participants
indicated at least some trust in the blockchain, but other comments were conditional, for
example: “
If it is made in the right hands” or “depends on the implementation.” Answers show
suspicious attitudes towards novel technology participants are not yet familiar with. One
participant clearly states reluctance to adopt blockchain in the first wave:
“I would say that with my understanding still, I would not (trust blockchain). [ . . . ] I
have played games that are based on servers, and they have worked for me and everyone
else, so I trust those. Maybe for me to trust the blockchain, it would require that it becomes
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 11 of 16
a mainstream thing and is proven safe. [ . . . ] I am not the first guy who goes to try a
new invention.” (P10)
Closely related to immutability and transparency, one of the common features in
blockchain applications is user-generated content. Since the game designed for this study
did not incorporate user-generated content directly into the mechanics of the game, the
interviews evaluated more external forms of user-generated content. Specifically, modifica-
tions and developing the game further after the original developers quit (i.e., preserving
the game). All except one participant (P8) had positive reactions to these ideas.
“The law of supply and demand comes straight away and an old saying that you should
not shoot a milk-producing cow. What I mean by that is that when the developers stop
developing the game, it is because no one wants to fund it anymore, no one wants to buy
it, and it does not have any players.” (P8)
However, another interviewee (P6) had quite a different opinion on the matter:
“That (open third-party involvement) would have saved so many good game projects so
far. For example, Age of Empires Online, some eight years ago, was a concrete example
that there was a game that was playable but ran out of developers. There were players,
sure, but no one wanted to update and continue developing the game.” (P6)
According to one respondent (P4), the benefit of third-party modding is that mods
often fix bugs that the developers have not been bothered to fix. Another participant (P6)
states that mods enable playing older games with newer technology. From a business
point of view, the relationship between the developer and the community can profit from
modding (P5). One participant saw external modification as a failure of the developers:
“I am just a gamer who does not want to use my own thinking time to ponder these
modding issues, and I just play what is fun. [ . . . ] It is the developers’ responsibility to
get the people to remain in the game and to direct us players to do what makes us stay
with the game.” (P8)
Although the questions regarding user-generated content within a game were not in
focus, one participant (P3) was aware of its possibilities:
“Another thing that I find intriguing about blockchain is that if you get things through
spending a lot of effort, you get rare things, and then you could sell those things for
real money. I think that it is a really neat idea. Those guys who built Middle-Earth
in Minecraft—they built it for 13 years—I would say that if they could now sell the
Middle-Earth as a map, I think that is what they would do.” (P3)
5. Discussion
This study examined whether the blockchain adds value to the gaming experience.
This was done by creating a blockchain game and demonstrating it to interviewees. This
chapter analyzes the results by discussing core findings in the context of relevant literature.
Transparency is one of the core benefits of blockchain-based systems [3,12] and the
interviews gave useful feedback on system transparency issues. Many interviewees raised
both privacy concerns and possible applications of transparent data. In addition, the
traceability of transactions was mentioned by interviewees, which is also emphasized by
Casino et al. [8]. We propose researching high-level abstractions, for example, experimental
settings where transparency is represented as an independent variable.
Another interview topic was blockchain-related security. The underlying proposal
was to determine whether the interviewees trusted blockchain applications. However, not
a single participant gave a direct answer to that question. Queiroz and Wamba [11] state
that blockchain transparency or trust does not significantly affect blockchain adoption.
Based on the findings of this study, blockchain in gaming was not seen as a security threat,
although there were some critical replies to transparency and trust issues.
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 12 of 16
Our findings of player retention are supported partly by previous studies.
Drachen et al. [12] argue that games should not be too easy to play to increase reten-
tion. According to our findings, some participants stated that the game did not have
enough meaningful content to increase their willingness to play it in the future.
Following Drachen et al.’s [12] argument, it would be safe to assume that implementing
blockchain into games would not attract individuals to play the game again if the game
itself was not perceived as engaging. However, participants who said they would like to
try the game again said that the blockchain was the reason, and in more detail, they were
interested in creating blockchain assets. Additionally, there were two interviewees who
stated that they would want to play the game again, although the game was unengaging for
them. This suggests that there is something interesting in the implementation of blockchain
rather than in the game itself. The issue of solving player retention can be difficult, as the
literature findings show reduced retention for both too-easy and too-difficult games [12,21].
Bouvier et al. [14] presented a model with four types of engagement: environmental
engagement, social engagement, self-engagement, and action engagement. The model
provided a possibility to analyze the engagement type of those interviewees who identified
engaging aspects in the artifact. However, the model by Bouvier et al. [14] defines engage-
ment types on a very conceptual level, while the participants in our interviews identified
specific reasons for engagement. That is why we first divided the engagement types into
three categories that closely correspond to interview replies: competitive engagement
(P4, P6, P9), engaging generation (P5, P8), and engaging progression (P7). From the three
categories, engaging generation is the easiest to identify as a blockchain characteristic be-
cause the blockchain provides practice for genuine asset ownership. When reflecting on our
results of the model by Bouvier et al. [14], the types of engagement would be environmental
engagement (curiosity, relaxation, exploration) and self-engagement (customizing and
developing a story around the character). Although social engagement did not come up in
the answers based on the demonstrated game, the interviews revealed that enabling social
engagement (i.e., token trading) would be relevant for a blockchain-based application.
The financial aspects of crypto assets received little attention from the respondents,
although blockchains offer room for emerging design solutions for handling monetary
issues. Instead, there were varying opinions on what makes assets valuable in the first
place (intrinsic versus instrumental values). Regarding exchange, two participants were
adamant about the significance of person-to-person trading as opposed to centralized
exchange systems. For them, trading is an essential factor in engagement, especially when
considering social engagement.
According to our findings, participants were eager to customize assets as soon as they
could. It seems that providing genuine asset ownership through blockchain contributes to
environmental engagement and self-engagement. The demonstrated game cannot measure
how blockchain affects social or action engagement. The social aspect was mentioned
several times, which could be one important focus for blockchain game development, for
example, enabling token trading.
User-generated content is often mentioned in related literature [3,10]. The interviews
included two aspects: modifications and preserving the game. These aspects were primarily
seen as a positive possibility. When implementing this feature into games, the developers
should consider other related blockchain topics, such as asset valuation and transparency.
Adding the possibility for user-generated content directly into the game (e.g., racetracks)
seems like a viable choice, according to the interviews and participants’ positive views
on it.
All the aforementioned key observations and corresponding implications can be seen
in Table 6.
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 13 of 16
Table 6. Key observations from interviews and their implications.
Observations Implications
Blockchain technology was seen as a novel technology among gamers.
Using blockchain technology in games can provide a huge competitive
advantage, since there are not many game companies using it as their games’
core technology.
Transparency was perceived as a complex issue. Even though transparency is one of the fundamental properties of blockchain
technology, gamers might not automatically perceive it as a positive element.
Asset ownership was perceived as the most important blockchain feature in
games. Asset ownership can potentially increase player engagement and retention.
User-generated content was seen as a positive possibility. Adding the possibility for user-generated content directly into the game seems
like a viable choice.
From a technical standpoint, implementing token trading is straightforward. Since the
tokens are already tied to their respective owners, only the function to transfer the tokens
between accounts is needed. One way to achieve this is by implementing a token standard.
ERC-721 is a commonly accepted standard for unique tokens or NFTs. The standard would
also aid interoperability between systems, for example, in common crypto wallets such as
MetaMask. For the user, this would emphasize the point that a crypto token is an asset of
value that they have genuine ownership of.
A limitation of this study was that only 3 out of the 10 participants could try out the
actual game. This was due to the COVID-19 pandemic and meeting restrictions caused by it.
However, the artifact was demonstrated via screen sharing. Naturally, in the cases of actual
hands-on experience, the participants seemed to be more engaged with the game. There
are only a few examples of blockchain games designed for academic purposes [31–33].
Karapapas et al. created a proof-of-concept implementation of a decentralized and fair
baseline system for a trading game [31]. However, they did not involve any end-user
participants to evaluate their design [31], and neither did Alefs et al. for their designed
blockchain gaming platform [32]. Yilmaz et al. investigated the use of non-fungible tokens
as trading mechanisms in Virtual Reality Metaverse settings, with only three participants
testing their system [33].
Our experiences encourage using qualitative research methods when the study is
explorative and inductive. However, measuring player retention and engagement would
benefit from more extended experiments and quantitative data gathering. Additionally,
questions related to transparency and trust are somewhat challenging to address when
emerging technology like the blockchain is being evaluated. The potential for future
research on blockchain-based video games is vast. Some recommended research topics
emerged from this study:
Design Science Research study on a system that enables user-created content with
the blockchain;
The effects of the blockchain on retention based on quantitative game user data;
The effects of the blockchain on different engagement types based on quantitative data
by users.
Also, designing an identical game without any blockchain and testing it with a control
group could enhance the results of this study.
6. Conclusions
The objective of this study was to investigate the effects of blockchain implementation
(NFTs and user-generated content), especially on player engagement and retention in
games, and how players view blockchain features such as trust and transparency. A unique
mobile game utilizing blockchain technology was purposefully designed and created as
a university project to demonstrate and evaluate the effects of the blockchain in a game.
Qualitative data was gathered via semi-structured interviews with either test play or game
demonstration sessions. A total of 10 interviews were conducted, either face-to-face or
through online meetings. According to the results, participants’ interest in generating
blockchain assets or interest in the general implementation of the blockchain seems to
resonate with a person’s willingness to try the game again. Few distinct reasons for
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 14 of 16
engagement were found from the analysis, and from those, environmental engagement
and self-engagement were most associated with blockchain asset generation.
In conclusion, this study provides initial suggestions on the effects of the blockchain on
player retention and engagement. Some of the identified themes are not exclusive features
of blockchains, but one of the goals of this study was to learn to look at the blockchain as a
tool that can be applied to specific problems whenever they present themselves.
Author Contributions: Resources, J.M.; Software, J.N.; Supervision, P.K.; Writing—original draft, I.P.,
J.N., and P.K.; Writing—review & editing, J.M. All authors have read and agreed to the published
version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in
the study.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Appendix A
Example interview questions by topic:
1. General questions
• How would you describe your relationship with video games?
• How would you differentiate video games from other media entertainment?
• Why are those aspects important?
• How do you feel when playing video games?
• How do you feel about the blockchain? Do you feel the pressure to get involved?
• What do you have to say about the blockchain game prototype?
• Would you play the game again? Why/why not?
• If the blockchain functionalities were implemented in an existing game you play,
how would you feel about that?
• Was the game engaging?
• How did you feel about the responsiveness in the game?
2. What makes assets valuable
• Have you ever considered any video game asset/item valuable?
• How would you differentiate the value of money from that item?
• Why is that important?
• Do you think these could be unified?
3. Asset ownership and the lack of a trusted third party
• In the game you played, how does it make you feel that there isn’t a higher
authority over the assets than yourself? Explain the feelings.
• How does the lack of a middleman make you feel from a social point of view?
• Have you ever considered who actually owns your virtual assets/items on
traditional games or software platforms?
• If so, did it concern you? Why/why not?
• If so, how would you differentiate the concern from concern over losing some-
thing you physically own?
4. Data on blockchain, immutable and transparent
• All of the transactions done in the game are public, and your racers can be
identified using your address. How do you feel about that?
• Do you think there’s value in the possibility of multiplayer interactivity after
developer support ends? Why?
• How about 3rd party modding possibilities during development? Why?
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 15 of 16
5. Security and trust on the blockchain
• How would you describe your security concerns regarding information systems
in general?
• From what you’ve experienced, would you say that you trust the blockchain?
Why/why not?
References
1. Ali, O.; Jaradat, A.; Kulakli, A.; Abuhalimeh, A. A comparative study: Blockchain technology utilization benefits, challenges, and
functionalities. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 12730–12749. [CrossRef]
2. Iansiti, M.; Lakhani, K.R. The truth about blockchain. Harv. Bus. Rev. 2017, 95, 119–127.
3. Min, T.; Wang, H.; Guo, Y.; Cai, W. Blockchain games: A survey. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Games (CoG), London,
UK, 20–23 August 2019; pp. 1–8. [CrossRef]
4. Yli-Huumo, J.; Ko, D.; Choi, S.; Park, S.; Smolander, K. Where is current research on blockchain technology?—A systematic review.
PLoS ONE 2016, 11, e0163477. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5. Curran, B. Blockchain Games: The Current State of Blockchain Gaming Technology. 2019. Available online: https://blockonomi.
com/blockchain-games/ (accessed on 13 June 2022).
6. Agrawal, G. Examples of Blockchain Games and How They Work. 2019. Available online: https://medium.com/crowdbotics/
examples-of-blockchain-games-and-how-they-work-7fb0a1e76e2e (accessed on 17 November 2021).
7. Jiang, X.J.; Liu, X.F. Cryptokitties transaction network analysis: The rise and fall of the first blockchain game mania. Front. Phys.
2021, 9, 57. [CrossRef]
8. Casino, F.; Dasaklis, T.K.; Patsakis, C. A systematic literature review of blockchain-based applications: Current status, classification,
and open issues. Telemat. Inform. 2019, 36, 55–81. [CrossRef]
9. Hughes, L.; Dwivedi, Y.K.; Misra, S.K.; Rana, N.P.; Raghavan, V.; Akella, V. Blockchain research, practice, and policy: Applications,
benefits, limitations, emerging research themes and research agenda. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2019, 49, 114–129. [CrossRef]
10. Felin, T.; Lakhani, K. What problems will you solve with blockchain? MIT Sloan Manag. Rev. 2018, 60, 32–38.
11. Queiroz, M.M.; Wamba, S.F. Blockchain adoption challenges in supply chain: An empirical investigation of the main drivers in
India and the USA. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2019, 46, 70–82. [CrossRef]
12. Drachen, A.; Lundquist, E.T.; Kung, Y.; Rao, P.; Sifa, R.; Runge, J.; Klabjan, D. Rapid prediction of player retention in free-to-play
mobile games. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Artificial Intelligence and Interactive Digital Entertainment Conference, Burlingame,
CA, USA, 8–12 October 2016; pp. 23–29.
13. Runge, J.; Gao, P.; Garcin, F. Churn prediction for high-value players in casual social games. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference
on Computational Intelligence and Games, Dortmund, Germany, 26–29 August 2014.
14. Bouvier, P.; Lavoué, E.; Sehaba, K. Defining engagement and characterizing engaged behaviors in digital gaming. Simul. Gaming
2014, 45, 491–507. [CrossRef]
15. Rossi, M.; Mueller-Bloch, C.; Thatcher, J.B.; Beck, R. Blockchain research in information systems: Current trends and an inclusive
future research agenda. J. Assoc. Inf. Syst. 2019, 20, 1388–1403. [CrossRef]
16. Gao, S.; Li, Y. An empirical study on the adoption of blockchain-based games from users’ perspectives. Electron. Libr. 2021, 39,
596–614. [CrossRef]
17. Pillai, B.; Biswas, K.; Muthukkumarasamy, V. Blockchain interoperable digital objects. In Proceedings of the International
Conference on Blockchain, San Diego, CA, USA, 25–30 June 2019; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2019; pp. 80–94.
18. Graves, S.; Hussey, M. What Are ERC-20 Tokens, Gas, ETH? Ethereum’s Architecture Explained. 2022. Available online: https:
//decrypt.co/resources/what-are-erc-20-gas-ether-ethereum (accessed on 20 September 2022).
19. CryptoKitties White Pa-Purr. Version 2.0. 2017. Available online: https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sooeAaJHzhw_XhFGMJp3
VNcQoM43byS/view (accessed on 20 September 2022).
20. Seufert, E.B. Freemium Economics: Leveraging Analytics and User Segmentation to Drive Revenue; Elsevier: Amsterdam, The
Netherlands, 2014.
21. Weber, B.G.; John, M.; Mateas, M.; Jhala, A. Modeling player retention in madden NFL 11. In Proceedings of the Twenty-Third
IAAI Conference, San Francisco, CA, USA, 9–11 August 2011.
22. Jiang, Y.; Fan, S.; Cai, W. Economic analysis of loot box market in blockchain games. In Proceedings of the Fourth ACM
International Symposium on Blockchain and Secure Critical Infrastructure, Nagasaki, Japan, 30 May 2022; Association for
Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA; pp. 35–46.
23. Wang, H.; Chen, K.; Xu, D. A maturity model for blockchain adoption. Financ. Innov. 2016, 2, 12. [CrossRef]
24. Przybylski, A.K.; Rigby, C.S.; Ryan, R.M. A motivational model of video game engagement. Rev. Gen. Psychol. 2010, 14, 54–166.
[CrossRef]
25. Robson, C. Real World Research: A Resource for Social Scientists and Practitioner-Researchers, 2nd ed.; Wiley-Blackwell: Hoboken, NJ,
USA, 2002.
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3050241
http://doi.org/10.1109/CIG.2019.8848111
http://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0163477
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27695049
https://blockonomi.com/blockchain-games/
https://blockonomi.com/blockchain-games/
https://medium.com/crowdbotics/examples-of-blockchain-games-and-how-they-work-7fb0a1e76e2e
https://medium.com/crowdbotics/examples-of-blockchain-games-and-how-they-work-7fb0a1e76e2e
http://doi.org/10.3389/fphy.2021.631665
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2018.11.006
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.02.005
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2018.11.021
http://doi.org/10.1177/1046878114553571
http://doi.org/10.17705/1jais.00571
http://doi.org/10.1108/EL-01-2021-0009
https://decrypt.co/resources/what-are-erc-20-gas-ether-ethereum
https://decrypt.co/resources/what-are-erc-20-gas-ether-ethereum
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sooeAaJHzhw_XhFGMJp3VNcQoM43byS/view
https://drive.google.com/file/d/1sooeAaJHzhw_XhFGMJp3VNcQoM43byS/view
http://doi.org/10.1186/s40854-016-0031-z
http://doi.org/10.1037/a0019440
Future Internet 2022, 14, 321 16 of 16
26. Tonelli, R.; Pinna, A.; Baralla, G.; Ibba, S. Ethereum smart contracts as blockchain-oriented microservices. In Proceedings of the
19th International Conference on Agile Software Development: Companion, Porto, Portugal, 21–25 May 2018; Association for
Computing Machinery: New York, NY, USA, 2018.
27. Schultze, U.; Avital, M. Designing interviews to generate rich data for information systems research. Inf. Organ. 2011, 21, 1–16.
[CrossRef]
28. Holstein, J.A.; Gubrium, J.F. The Active Interview; Sage: London, UK, 1995; Volume 37.
29. Terry, G.; Hayfield, N.; Clarke, V.; Braun, V. Thematic analysis. In The SAGE Handbook of Qualitative Research in Psychology; Willig,
C., Rogers, W., Eds.; American Psychological Association: Newbury Park, CA, USA, 2017; pp. 17–36.
30. Nyyssölä, J. Assessing the Effects of Blockchains in Video Games: Case IkuneRacers. Master’s Thesis, University of Oulu, Oulu,
Finland, 2020.
31. Karapapas, C.; Syros, G.; Pittaras, I.; Polyzos, G.C. Decentralized NFT-based evolvable games. In Proceedings of the 4th
Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications for Innovative Networks and Services (BRAINS), Paris, France, 27–30
September 2022; pp. 67–74.
32. Alefs, K.; Hartl, F.; Newman, L.; Ozdeveci, B.; Uriawan, W. Secure Decentralized Online Gaming with Lending Functionalities.
arXiv 2022, arXiv:2205.02348.
33. Yilmaz, M.; Hacaloğlu, T.; Clarke, P. Examining the use of non-fungible tokens (NFTs) as a trading mechanism for the metaverse.
In Systems, Software and Services Process Improvement, Proceedings of the 29th European Conference, EuroSPI 2022, Salzburg, Austria,
August 31–2 September 2022; Communications in Computer and Information Science Series; Yilmaz, M., Clarke, P., Messnarz, R.,
Wöran, B., Eds.; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2022; Volume 1646.
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.infoandorg.2010.11.001
	Introduction 
	Background 
	Blockchain Assets and Games 
	Blockchain Trust, Transparency, and User-Generated Content 
	Retention and Engagement 
	Research Methods 
	The Artifact 
	Demonstrations and Interviews 
	Data Analysis 
	Results 
	Retention, Engagement, and Gaming Experience 
	Transparency, Trust, and User-Generated Content 
	Discussion 
	Conclusions 
	Appendix A
	References