On the Understanding of Gamification in Blockchain Systems
 
On the Understanding of Gamification in Blockchain 
Systems 
 
Reza M. Parizi  
Department of Software Engineering and Game Development 
Kennesaw State University 
Marietta, GA 30060, USA 
rparizi1@kennesaw.edu 
Ali Dehghantanha 
Department of Computer Science  
University of Sheffield, UK 
a.dehghantanha@sheffield.ac.uk  
Abstract—Blockchain is a new trend rising fast from the 
community and the enterprise world. As an infrastructural 
technology it is finding its way into a growing number of domains 
like finance, medical, digital marketplace, pharmaceutical and 
government agencies. While blockchain technology is primarily 
thought as the foundation of Bitcoin, it has grown far beyond 
underpinning the virtual currency. It promises building better 
trust, transparency, and integrity without a third-party and the 
risk of censorship. These remarkable advantages do however 
come at a price. The blockchain ecosystem is riddled with 
human-centric and economical issues for its participants, leading 
to unintended consequences in decentralized networks. Gamified 
software engineering is a growing field that in particular taps 
into gamification technology, the application of game mechanics 
in non-game contexts, to address human-related concerns. There 
are currently no studies around blockchain that have been 
identified to have a clear view of existing research and solutions 
for utilizing the gamification in the emerging blockchain systems. 
As a first step towards filling this gap, this paper discusses and 
identifies two major human-based problems in the blockchain 
decentralized applications and development. For those problems, 
it proposes a preliminary gamified model to provide a basis for 
expanding future research and applications in this joint domain. 
Keywords—Decentralized software development, Blockchain, 
Smart contracts, Decentralized applications, Gamification, Peer-to-
peer networks   
I. INTRODUCTION  
Blockchain represents a paradigm shift from centralized to 
decentralized computing, and it is a fast growing field in both 
academia and the enterprise world. The introduction of Bitcoin 
protocol by Satoshi Nakamoto [1] in 2008 has marked the 
beginning of this new era of decentralization in software 
systems worldwide. Following a ten-year time of incubation, 
the more far reaching variant of technology is getting more 
attention for a possible range of applications in different 
industries, including security, finance, medical, digital 
marketplace, pharmaceutical and government agencies. One of 
its attributes of being third-party independent makes the 
blockchain technology a first choice for innovative business 
models and startups. So far, the emphasis on advancements 
around blockchain has been for the most part, the domain of 
innovators and early-adopters. Although the developments in 
the field is closely observed by the academia, there is relatively 
little research forums concerned with the human-related issues 
in the blockchain systems and its ecosystem. Among others, 
sustainability has been the main shortcoming of decentralized 
blockchain systems (especially in cryptocurrency areas) when 
active participation and engagement by involved users is the 
major concern, diminishing the stability and usefulness of such 
systems. 
Gamification [2], [3] has been trending for the recent years 
and it is popular with both individuals and organizations in the 
online world. The idea of adding game-like features on 
enterprise information systems [4], [5], web and mobile apps 
[6], IoT apps [7], [8] has been more and more recognized by 
leaders, companies, and developers. At its core, gamification 
seeks for improvement of the user’s engagement, motivation, 
and performance when carrying out a certain task, by means of 
incorporating game mechanics and elements, thus making that 
task more productive [9]. In fact, we have seen the widespread 
use of gamification in the real world today in the realms of 
learning, business and even the routine aspects of lifestyle. For 
instance, the privileges of online shopping with credit cards, 
social media (e.g. Linkedin progress indicator or endorsement 
buttons), e-learning environments (e.g. Code Academy that 
uses a motivational system of various game mechanics to keep 
learners engaged and incentivized to continue learning), mobile 
apps, and many more. Hence, gamification potentially makes 
any technology more inviting by virtue of users’ engagement to 
desired behaviors. This is why a wide range of industries has 
turned to gamification and the use of game design principles to 
maximize user’s involvement and minimize customer churn. In 
this respect, the idea behind gamification  can be worthwhile 
and attractive regarding human-related problems in the 
blockchain technology. Inspired by this, this paper hence 
investigates the application of gamification in the blockchain 
space by discussing the current problems and possible areas 
that gamification would make sense to use.  The paper aims at 
providing a starting forum for addressing the human-centric 
challenges arising from this new technology and the “how to” 
of gamifying a blockchain system can fundamentally change 
how better business value is created and realized. This work 
primarily addresses researchers to the discipline in order to 
shed light on future directions of research and practices in the 
gamified blockchain field. 
The rest of this paper is structured as follows: Section II 
presents the related work on the application of gamification in 
software and system engineering tasks and provide necessary 
background on the blockchain components. Section III 
identifies human-centric problems in blockchain systems and 
214
2018 6th International Conference on Future Internet of Things and Cloud Workshops
978-1-5386-7810-7/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/W-FiCloud.2018.00041
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
outlines the proposed gamified model. Section IV discusses the 
aspects related to game mechanics and a preliminary list of 
suggested ones for blockchain systems. Section V gives the 
conclusion and future work. 
II. CURRENT STATE OF RESEARCH AND BACKGROUND 
This section presents the related work either in terms of 
R&D studies that support tailoring gamification into various 
software engineering activities (Section II.A), or in terms of 
market products/projects that combine the gamification and the 
blockchain capabilities for building gamified environments 
(Section II.B). 
A. Gamification in Software Engineering 
While education industry [10], [11] has been a huge 
supporter of the gamification technology in learning [12], [13], 
[14], it  has also been widely advocated by many studies in the 
software engineering domain to mitigate human-centric issues 
in various level of software development and maintenance. 
Software engineering is inherently a human-centric and 
collaborative process in a quite volatile environment. This 
nature in turn makes the gamification a good fit to improve the 
daily engagement and motivation of software engineers in their 
tasks. Seen it this way, gamification can be realized as a 
remedy to unlock motivations of the currently unengaged 
software engineering-related concerns/ problems. 
Over the past recent years, the software engineering 
community has seen a tremendous interest in relating the 
gamification to the field and beyond. An examination of the 
literature reveals that gamification has been utilized across 
various directions and applications, aiming at the enhancement 
of conventional techniques or processes. For instances, in 
requirements elicitation [15] and prioritization [16], software 
traceability tasks [17], [18], software testing [19], software 
processes [20], [21], project management [22], and knowledge 
sharing [23]. The results achieved from these works and 
similar framework-driven [9], [7] and experimental [24] 
studies motivated the use of gamification and its usefulness 
within software and systems engineering activities.   
B. Blockchain for Gamified Environments  
There are very few cryptocurrencies and platforms that aim 
at leveraging blockchain for providing better gamified 
solutions. HoToKeN [25], Sandblock [26], and POINTToken 
[27] are three examples of such systems to manage rewards 
and loyalty programs on the blockchain. In this kind of works, 
proposers justify that the blockchain capabilities have the 
potential to transform how businesses incentivize and engage 
customers in loyalty programs and gamification initiatives. 
One of the common criticisms highlighted against centralized 
loyalty programs is that they are mainly designed to maximize 
profit for companies, most oftenly making it difficult for 
participants to be fairly rewarded for their efforts and the 
amounts they spend. In this regard, the aforementioned systems 
promise to bring the benefits of the blockchain (such as secure 
records, transparency and transactions using crypto tokens) to 
closed and centralized systems of rewards and loyalty 
programs, where a unified on-chain ledger will be globally 
holding rewards and points (representing the blockchain’s 
assets) across multiple vendors, providers, and end-users.  
While these works claim that the blockchain technology 
could bring gamification and rewards to every industry, their 
downsides can be summarized in twofold: (1) the blockchain is 
primarily not a good choice to store large amounts of 
frequently updated data, such as rewards or points. For the 
most part, these blockchain-based gamified systems encourage 
migrating from a centralized database that is currently 
managing a gamification system (handling badges, points, 
reputation, etc.) to a decentralized publicly ledger on top of a 
blockchain. But, it has to be said that in case of migrating from 
a centralized system (database) to a decentralized public 
blockchain, the resulting system will be significantly slower in 
terms of throughput, and will be more expensive than 
centralized existing system, as every state-altering transaction 
requires a cost of payment for the verification by the network; 
(2) the lack of understanding that the blockchain applications 
are themselves have core gamified issues that should be 
resolved first before then can be used for any loyalty 
simulation or rewards system (which is the main focus of this 
paper). 
On the other hand, there are also very few startup 
blockchain-supported projects that are trying to incorporate 
game-like concepts in their business models. Arcade City [28] 
is a ride-sharing blockchain-based system that claims to solve 
the issue of decentralized reputation through opt-in 
gamification layers. They borrowed the concept of levelling up 
the driver or rider profile from role-playing games. Drivers 
level up their profile by providing safe and enjoyable customer 
experiences. The rules governing the provision of points were 
driven by community consensus and built as smart contracts on 
the Ethereum [29] blockchain.  
FundFantsy [30] is another new blockchain project that 
offers a simplified version of the trade based on the Ethereum 
platform [29], which allows investors to become players and 
compete with other players to win a prize. Their proposed idea 
was inspired by the principle of fantastic sports that enables 
users to open their own contests and invite their friends to win 
part of the prize pool. 
In summary, our literature study shows that there is 
currently a lack of research work to investigate various aspects 
of the blockchain decentralized technology in tandem with  the 
gamification technology, and how it can be used to improve the 
human-related concerns in this emerging technology. As a start 
point, our work in this paper takes the first step by facilitating 
discussions, aiming to pave the way for conducting further 
theoretical and empirical research in a more community-wide 
software engineering infrastructure. 
C. Background on Blockchain Components  
Blockchain technology is not just only one single 
technique. It integrates a multi-field infrastructure including 
cryptography, distributed consensus algorithm, economic 
model, and peer-to-peer networks. A blockchain can be seen as 
constituted by: 
215
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
1. A strategy for creating an unalterable ledger, by and for all 
participants in a broadcast network. 
2. A strategy for expressing consensus as ledger entries, i.e., 
validating transactions. 
3. A strategy to incentivize consensus. 
The use of a broadcast network is to ensure that all 
participants in the blockchain process the same sequence of 
signed transactions (most blockchain networks use elliptic 
curve digital signature algorithm (ECDSA) [31] for this 
purpose).  Each transaction triggers execution of a well-defined 
process. The result of the process triggered by a transaction is a 
state-change in the information system represented by the 
blockchain.  
The security strength promised by a blockchain network 
stem from the fact that anyone can audit the entire history of all 
states of the system. In practice, that anyone can audit does not 
necessarily imply that everyone will. It is for this purpose there 
exists a special class of users/nodes, known as miners in Proof-
of-Work consensus methods or minters in Proof-of-Stake 
methods, who are incentivized to verify the correctness of 
every transaction (including block/contract-creation and state-
change transactions). 
The incentive in blockchain systems can be direct – in form 
of Proof-of-Stake (PoS), or indirect – in form of Proof-of-Work 
(PoW). In PoW based method (Bitcoin uses Hashcash proof of 
work system), miners are to solve a puzzle, which is an 
advanced mathematical problem. In this step, a miner node on 
the P2P network is calculating advanced mathematical 
problems with the goal of finding the ID for the next block of 
the blockchain. This calculation needs the ID of the previous 
block to calculate the ID of the next block, and this makes the 
blockchain immutable since if someone wants to change a 
block he needs to calculate the ID of every previous block. 
Each node participating in the proof-of-work consensus 
competes in solving the mathematical problem. The first node 
to solve the problem for the block will be rewarded, and he 
earns the privilege of adding/admitting the block to the 
blockchain. 
On the other hands, PoS based method (Ethereum uses this 
model), uses a very different approach when validating 
transactions, and consequently incentivizing users whom do it. 
This method was built on the criticism of PoW because of its 
high consumption of energy and computing resources. Thus, it 
was proposed instead of calculating mathematical problems as 
in proof-of-work to generate new blocks, an owner of the next 
block would be chosen in a deterministic way where the 
chance of the person being chosen depends on the wealth (that 
is stake - balance in their wallet). The work of PoS based 
validation by users is commonly refereed as forging or minting 
as opposed to mining in proof-of-work method (however, 
many resources exchangeably use the term miner for both PoW 
and PoS methods, including this paper). In PoS there is no 
reward for creating a new block, so instead the minters take a 
payment (typically proportional to the stake held in their 
wallets, and in the form of a transaction fee) to certify the 
correctness of each transaction. Any error (deliberate or 
otherwise) made in certifying correctness will result in loss of 
stake.  
III. GAMIFICATION IN BLOCKCHAIN  
In this section, we identify and discuss two main 
motivational and human-related problems in blockchain-based 
decentralized systems (Section III.A and III. B). In an attempt 
to alleviate these problems, we propose a preliminary model 
for which the gamification can be a possible remedy to foster 
engagement and eliminate the associated risks (Section III.C). 
The proposed model is primarily designed for permission-less 
public blockchains. A public blockchain is a decentralized 
system that anyone in the world can read and send transactions. 
Public blockchain systems are usually permission-less (i.e., no 
access restrictions), since they aim at being fully decentralized 
and involve as many as possible users in the consensus process.  
A. Non-Functioning User Participants  
Blockchain systems are heavily reliant on their participants 
to actively function. Literally, a decentralized system with no 
users is not a network in any sense of the word. The risk of 
non-functioning user experience could be a threat to the 
success of the business that owns/runs the blockchain, either as 
a cryptocurrency coin or a non-cryptocurrency service. 
This particular problem roots back in the underling block 
validation process (incentive model) that indirectly causes a 
massive usability issue in such systems. For many, acquiring 
benefits in public blockchains require a great deal of technical 
skills to do proof-of-stake or proof-of-work mining, making it 
difficult for regular consumers who lacks understanding of 
what it is and how to execute a transaction. 
As a result of this issue, there has been unmotivated non-
functioning participants in blockchain systems, creating 
disparity in sustainability and fairness of such systems over the 
long-term. 
B. Unsustainable Growth of Tokens/Assets  
Blockchain decentralized systems run on P2P networks of 
computers without the need to be controlled by any single 
entity, but they are required to use tokens to make their systems 
up and running. To be more specific, in the context of 
blockchain systems, the decentralized applications developed 
must meet the following criteria [32]: 
• Application must be completely open-source: It must 
operate autonomously, and with no entity controlling the 
majority of its generating tokens.  
• Application’s data and records of operation must be 
cryptographically stored: It must be cryptographically 
stored in a decentralized blockchain. 
• Application must use a token to represent the assets: In the 
forms of cryptocurrency, like Bitcoin, or any other tokens, 
such as smart property or secure unforgeable coupons, 
native to its system which is necessary for access to the 
application and any contribution of value from 
miners/minters should be rewarded with the application’s 
tokens. 
• Application must keep generating tokens: According to a 
standard cryptographic consensus algorithm (either PoS or 
PoW) acting as a proof of the value, nodes/users are 
216
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
contributing to the application should be rewarded by 
receiving tokens. 
In light of above requirements, the second problem 
identified in the blockchain systems that issue tokens is related 
to the tokenization aspect of the underling applications, which 
gives a negative impact on their ecosystem’s sustainability. In 
reality, blockchain participants tend to hoard their tokens (e.g., 
currencies) as investment products instead of monetary media 
to spend for services or goods, creating a hole in the 
blockchain-based business model with a small level of 
engagement among participants. This phenomenon is mainly 
because these tokens (particularly virtual currencies) are not 
seen as ideal methods of payment due to the instability of their 
market’ perception. As a result, this issue acts like a de-
motivator for people involved to actively be engaged in 
moving around tokens in the system for better monetization 
and opportunities.  
After overviewing these problems, in the next sub-section 
we discuss how they could be streamlined by incorporating the 
gamification in relevant tasks (like validation) on top of a 
blockchain system. 
C. Solution: Stealth Gamification 
Given the problems, we propose to build an alluring 
gamified layer in the architecture level of underlying 
decentralized applications to interface the blockchain’s proof-
of-stake or proof-of-work mining pool with proper game 
mechanics or games. This way users do not have to know 
explicitly they are doing mining in the traditional mind-
wrecking sense by encapsulating technical details while 
diverting the task to a more appealing fun environment. 
Through this gamified mining system users/consumers can set 
aside funds as their stake for blockchain validation while 
engaged with a fun task and thereby accumulate awards and 
points for blocks completed. An attribute where we believe the 
majority of state-of-the-art works including Bitcoin fall short. 
In addition, this layer should include proper mechanics to 
gamify “spending tokens” over holing as a sort of sub-
incentive mechanism to help the system becomes viable and 
economically flowed (addressing the second problem). By 
getting this solution right, companies benefit from self-
sufficient marketing and engaging users while help regular 
people seeking accessibility to blockchain system without 
having to understand any of the technology or theory behind it. 
Fig. 1 shows the conceptual view of the proposed model 
and its components in a typical blockchain system. Any 
participant (user) in the blockchain network may construct and 
broadcast a transaction (data) of which they have in control. In 
this case, a transaction may have a list of inputs each referring 
to an existing value (represented as an output of a past 
transaction), and a non-empty list of outputs (an output used 
for applications). A transaction is digitally signed in each input, 
which is verifiable with the public key also included in the 
input. The digest of the public key needs to match the digest to 
which the referred output is addressed. This structure is self-
contained, and its validity can be verified by anyone that 
interact with the gamification layer’s dashboard.  
 
Fig. 1. Conceptual view of the proposed model.  
It is also essential for those technical-savvy miners with the 
required skills to be treated fairly (perhaps, with a higher rates 
of stakes). Thus, the gamified layer should recognize this 
feature by embedding proper tweaks as it is infrastructurally 
important to the blockchain system’s sustainability to 
incentivize professional players (i.e. miners). 
From a more technical perspective, the proposed gamified 
addition can be built and handled by means of smart contracts 
using domain-specific languages, such as Solidity1, suited for 
the hosting platform (of course, it might be achieved through 
other methodologies). In order to provide a better modularized 
implementation’s roadmap and envisioning, Table I shows the 
template contracts. 
TABLE I. SMART CONTRACTS FOR IMPLEMENTING THE GAMIFIED 
LAYER
Contract Purpose  Play as 
storage?
Organizer Main contract, working as the central point of 
the gamified layer 
× 
Players/Users Take care of everything regarding users as 
well as storing user data 
√ 
Tasks Take care of everything regarding tasks as 
well as storing task data 
√ 
Game 
mechanic i 
Take care of everything regarding i as well as 
keep track of i data by every user (i represents 
a game mechanic such as points) 
√ 
 
These smart contracts (Table I) will work as controllers as 
well as storages between the users and the validation process 
associated with the gamified environment. The first contract 
called organizer works as the central point of the gamified 
layer and therefore interacts with every other contract. It also 
provides a means to capture the required meta-data. The users 
contract handles everything regarding the user, it stores user 
relevant information form personal, system related, to gamified 
incentives. This information will be limited in the term of 
                                                        
1 http://solidity.readthedocs.io/en/v0.4.24/# 
217
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
visibility for other users. The tasks contract is in charge of 
managing all existing and upcoming tasks. The game 
mechanics contract handles the gamification data for each user, 
as an incentive result of their involvement with the mining 
process, i.e. game. These data (e.g., stakes) are received when 
completing a block and can only be spent within the system on 
either rewards or services from other users.  
IV. DISCUSSION 
In this section, we discuss several points in relation to the 
proposed model and its practical enforcement.  
A. What would be the possible game mechanics in the 
blockchain space? 
There are various aspects to consider and support in the 
gamification of a problem (a.k.a. gamification design [33]), 
including: understanding the problem and its best fit to 
gamification, knowing the target audience of the gamified 
environment, tailoring the context to fulfill different types of 
players’ satisfaction, and most importantly having meaningful 
game mechanics to put into use the gamified concept.  
Defining game mechanics (i.e. suitable dynamics for taking 
advantage to engage and motivate players in the best way) is 
the most challenging part of a gamified model as we seek to 
turn gamification into a key asset while resolving the human-
related issues. This matter gets even worse due to the fresh 
nature of blockchain systems as opposed to traditional web 
applications. To help derive the suitable blockchain-specific 
game mechanics, we consolidated the different gamification 
design elements and demographics to explore blockchain 
ecosystems. In this regard, we reviewed the literature about 
game design and identified motivational elements that have 
been incorporated in the design of gamification in various 
recent studies, particularly those related to software 
development environment. Table II shows a suggested list of 
game mechanics. 
TABLE II. LIST OF SUGGESTED GAME MECHANICS 
Mechanics Effects/ benefits 
Social events  Integrating real world events performed by users 
with the blockchain to promote an Internet of 
values. For instances, make a post on 
Twitter/Instagram/Facebook about the blockchain 
company/service by the user, or invite friends 
should be recognized  
Token spent Progress and tracking of tokens (assets) that a 
user spends.  
Points  Extrinsic rewards and achievement stats (stakes) 
Feedback Connecting and communal collaboration and 
discovery, especially for non-technical users 
Consensus The gamified layer provides the incentive 
mechanism. It is very important for the incentive 
mechanism to get all users’ consensus (as one of 
the principals of transparent decentralized 
applications). This game mechanic contains the 
consensus-state of all users involved  
  
To provoke feelings of motivation and engagement in 
users, there are five possible game mechanics at different levels 
of abstractions presented in Table II. Any implementation of 
the model requires making use of these game mechanics (as 
well as any upcoming additions) using a kind of vector model, 
where each dimension corresponds to a separate mechanic 
handled in a smart contract.  
B. What would be the expected long-term sustainability of a 
game-based consensus mechanism as the interest of end 
users might wane in the current game? 
If the blockchain developers decide to use a game instead 
of built-in game mechanics, it would be the hosting platform’s 
responsibility to ensure that the substantiality of the interfacing 
game will be maintained well over time by collecting constant 
analytics to drive decisions. Maintaining the sustainability of 
the game is quite the case with all online games in the market. 
They should remain competitive and relevant to keep their 
users engaged.  
C. How to assure the security of the gamified layer? 
The gamified layer must be honest and of high security. To 
enforce the security of the layer, we suggest to use smart 
contracts as building blocks to create immutable and more 
secure implementation of the layer (as discussed in the 
preceding section). Smart contracts are secure by design, and 
are self-directing programs implemented through pieces of 
software whose autonomous execution apply the terms of the 
settlement and business logics in given game mechanics. 
V. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 
Gamification has been a trending topic for fostering user 
engagement and addressing human-centric concerns in the 
online world for the past recent years. It has not only been 
received well in modern mobile and web development within 
the industry but also in the context of academic work. This 
paper identified and discussed two major human-related 
problems in the emerging decentralized blockchain systems. 
For those identified problems, a preliminarily gamified model 
was proposed and illustrated in the context of a typical 
blockchain system.  
We hope that our proposed work in this paper can be useful 
in the process of building a community-wide gamified 
blockchain research infrastructure to widen the horizons, 
especially as a start point for the discussion of what constitutes 
‘ideal’ game mechanics in the blockchain decentralized space. 
In the near future, we plan to implement a prototype of the 
proposed model on top of a public blockchain system and 
compare the prospect results with a non-gamified blockchain 
system. Besides and as also mentioned earlier, blockchain 
represents a paradigm shift from centralized computing to 
decentralized. In this view, another important line of future 
research could be the investigation how this paradigm shift 
changes the current game mechanics in place. Following this 
quest, one would like to know how a game mechanic scales (in 
terms of its effectiveness) when moving from centralized to 
decentralized systems on blockchains. A well-designed 
experimental study should support this investigation by giving 
218
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
solid recommendations whether new blockchain-specific game 
mechanics need to be designed or existing ones are adequate. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] S. Nakamoto, “BitCoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,” 
http://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf, 2008. 
[2] D. Basten, “Gamification,” IEEE Softw., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 76–81, 
2017. 
[3] K. Seaborn and D. I. Fels, “Gamification in theory and action: A 
survey,” Int. J. Hum. Comput. Stud., vol. 74, pp. 14–31, Feb. 2015. 
[4] J. Swacha, “Gamification in enterprise information systems: what, why 
and how,” in Federated Conference on Computer Science and 
Information Systems, 2016, pp. 1229–1233. 
[5] P. Herzig, M. Ameling, and A. Schill, “A Generic Platform for 
Enterprise Gamification,” in 2012 Joint Working IEEE/IFIP 
Conference on Software Architecture and European Conference on 
Software Architecture, 2012, pp. 219–223. 
[6] G. Zichermann and C. Cunningham, Gamification by design : 
implementing game mechanics in web and mobile apps. O’Reilly 
Media, 2011. 
[7] A. L’Heureux, K. Grolinger, W. A. Higashino, and M. A. M. Capretz, 
“A gamification framework for sensor data analytics,” Proc. - 2017 
IEEE 2nd Int. Congr. Internet Things, ICIOT 2017, pp. 74–81, 2017. 
[8] T. G. Papaioannou, D. Kotsopoulos, C. Bardaki, and S. Lounis, “‘ IoT 
-Enabled Gamification for Energy Conservation in Public Buildings ,’” 
2017. 
[9] F. García, O. Pedreira, M. Piattini, A. Cerdeira-Pena, and M. Penabad, 
“A framework for gamification in software engineering,” J. Syst. 
Softw., vol. 132, pp. 21–40, 2017. 
[10] D. Kayımbaşıoğlu, B. Oktekin, and H. Hacı, “Integration of 
Gamification Technology in Education,” Procedia Comput. Sci., vol. 
102, pp. 668–676, Jan. 2016. 
[11] C. H.-H. Tsay, A. Kofinas, and J. Luo, “Enhancing student learning 
experience with technology-mediated gamification: An empirical 
study,” Comput. Educ., vol. 121, pp. 1–17, Jun. 2018. 
[12] J. C. Paiva, J. P. Leal, and R. Queirós, “Odin: A service for 
gamification of learning activities,” in Communications in Computer 
and Information Science, 2015, vol. 563, pp. 194–204. 
[13] J. C. Paiva, J. P. Leal, and R. Queirós, “Gamification of learning 
activities with the Odin service,” Comput. Sci. Inf. Syst., no. 00, 2016. 
[14] J. C. Paiva, J. P. Leal, and R. A. P. de Queirós, “Design and 
implementation of an IDE for learning programming languages using a 
gamification service,” in Gamification-Based E-Learning Strategies 
for Computer Programming Education, 2017, pp. 295–308. 
[15] M. Z. H. Kolpondinos and M. Glinz, “Tailoring gamification to 
requirements elicitation: A stakeholder-centric motivation concept,” 
Proc. - 2017 IEEE/ACM 10th Int. Work. Coop. Hum. Asp. Softw. Eng. 
CHASE 2017, pp. 9–15, 2017. 
[16] F. Kifetew, D. Munante, A. Perini, A. Susi, A. Siena, and P. Busetta, 
“DMGame: A Gamified Collaborative Requirements Prioritisation 
Tool,” in 2017 IEEE 25th International Requirements Engineering 
Conference (RE), 2017, pp. 468–469. 
[17] R. M. Parizi, “On the gamification of human-centric traceability tasks 
in software testing and coding,” in 2016 IEEE/ACIS 14th International 
Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management and 
Applications, SERA 2016, 2016, pp. 193–200. 
[18] R. M. Parizi, A. Kasem, and A. Abdullah, “Towards gamification in 
software traceability: Between test and code artifacts,” in ICSOFT-EA 
2015 - 10th International Conference on Software Engineering and 
Applications, Proceedings; Part of 10th International Joint Conference 
on Software Technologies, ICSOFT 2015, 2015. 
[19] G. Fraser, “Gamification of software testing,” Proc. - 2017 IEEE/ACM 
12th Int. Work. Autom. Softw. Testing, AST 2017, pp. 2–7, 2017. 
[20] E. Herranz, R. Colomo-Palacios, A. De, A. Seco, and M.-L. Sánchez-
Gordón, “Towards a Gamification Framework for Software Process 
Improvement Initiatives: Construction and Validation,” J. Univers. 
Comput. Sci., vol. 22, no. 12, pp. 1509–1532, 2016. 
[21] E. Herranz, R. Colomo-Palacios, and A. Al-Barakati, “Deploying a 
Gamification Framework for Software Process Improvement: 
Preliminary Results,” Springer, Cham, 2017, pp. 231–240. 
[22] D. Ašeriškis and R. Damasevicius, “Gamification of a Project 
Management System,” in The Seventh International Conference on 
Advances in Computer-Human Interactions, 2014, pp. 200–207. 
[23] J. Swacha, “Gamification in knowledge management: motivating for 
knowledge sharing,” Polish J. Manag. Stud., vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 150–
160, 2015. 
[24] J. Hamari, J. Koivisto, and H. Sarsa, “Does gamification work?—A 
literature review of empirical studies on gamification,” in he 47th 
Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2014, pp. 3025–
3034. 
[25] “HoToKeN.” [Online]. Available: https://www.hotoken.io/. [Accessed: 
12-Mar-2018]. 
[26] “Sandblock.” [Online]. Available: https://sandblock.io/. [Accessed: 07-
Apr-2018]. 
[27] “The POINT Token System: Gamification And Achievements For The 
Blockchain,” 2017. [Online]. Available: 
https://medium.com/@point_token/the-point-token-system-
gamification-and-achievements-for-the-blockchain-bc368978e365. 
[Accessed: 12-Mar-2018]. 
[28] “Arcade City.” [Online]. Available: https://arcade.city/. [Accessed: 06-
Apr-2018]. 
[29] “Ethereum Project.” [Online]. Available: https://www.ethereum.org/. 
[Accessed: 09-Apr-2018]. 
[30] “FundFantasy - Financial fantasy trading platform - FundFantasy.” 
[Online]. Available: https://fundfantasy.io/. [Accessed: 06-Apr-2018]. 
[31] P. D. Gallagher and C. Romine, “FIPS PUB 186-4 Digital Signature 
Standard (DSS) category: computer security subcategory: 
cryptography,” 2013. 
[32] “What is a dApp? Decentralized Application on the Blockchain.” 
[Online]. Available: https://blockchainhub.net/decentralized-
applications-dapps/. [Accessed: 09-Apr-2018]. 
[33] B. Morschheuser, L. Hassan, K. Werder, and J. Hamari, “How to 
design gamification? A method for engineering gamified software,” 
Inf. Softw. Technol., vol. 95, pp. 219–237, 2018. 
 
219
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.