What do blockchain technologies imply for digital creative industries?
R E GU L A R A R T I C L E
What do blockchain technologies imply for digital creative
industries?
Bronwin Patrickson
Independent Researcher, UK
Correspondence
Bronwin Patrickson, SGSSAH, University of
Dundee.
Email: creativeblockchainresearch@gmail.com
Funding information
UK Arts and Humanities Research Council,
Grant/Award Number: AH/R013357/1;
Creative Scotland; Scottish Graduate School of
Arts & Humanities
As the technology that powers cryptocurrencies like bitcoin, blockchains are associ-
ated with volatile and (as yet) largely unregulated financial trade, but they are also
about more than money. This capacity to help automate, incentivize and authenticate
global trade has numerous potential applications. Blockchain technologies promise
efficient transactions, greater accountability of trade and increased/direct payment
for creative enterprise. As such, despite their lingering technical challenges, these
nascent technologies are already being employed within a wide variety of creative
innovation processes. Based upon research into their potential applications within
Scotland's digital creative industries, this study explores the ways in which these
emerging technologies might disrupt digital creative industries, such as digital media
production, digital art, web/interface/experience design, application development,
extended reality and gaming, both in Scotland and beyond. Of particular interest are
the ways that these emerging technologies might transform value exchange and
intellectual property management. Early results indicate that blockchain technologies
are poised to substantially disrupt the sale and distribution of creative digital works.
Yet, whilst these emerging technologies can encourage open innovation, it also
seems likely that they will just as often be used to streamline existing systems
designed to control and potentially exploit creativity. The implications for digital dis-
ruption theories are discussed, highlighting the need for frameworks that can also
account for second-order disruptions.
K E YWORD S
blockchain, blockchain technologies, cryptocurrency, data sharing applications, digital creative
industries, digital futures, emerging technologies, NFT
1 | INTRODUCTION
As the technology that powers cryptocurrencies like bitcoin,
blockchains are associated with volatile and (as yet) largely
unregulated financial trade, but they are also about more than
money. A blockchain is a programmable system for secure digital
ownership and greater transparency of trade, even between
strangers.1
This capacity to help automate, incentivize and authenticate
global trade has numerous potential applications. Blockchain-inspired
technologies are transforming a wide variety of creative innovation
processes, including intellectual property (IP) development, financing,
supply chain management, data management, digital product distribu-
tion and renumeration (O'Dair, 2018; Ragnedda & Destefanis, 2019;
Tapscott & Tapscott, 2016b). In this article, I explore whether and in
what ways such applications might disrupt digital creative industries,
such as digital media production, digital art, web/interface/experience
design, application development, extended reality and gaming. Digital
creative industries tend to embrace new technologies and could
therefore be described as early adopter industries (Gandhi, Khanna, &
Ramaswamy, 2016). The sector's engagement with blockchain
technologies (and their audience's engagement with the results) thus
Received: 16 October 2018 Revised: 4 May 2021 Accepted: 21 June 2021
DOI: 10.1111/caim.12456
Creat Innov Manag. 2021;30:585–595. wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/caim © 2021 John Wiley & Sons Ltd 585
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3623-7942
mailto:creativeblockchainresearch@gmail.com
https://doi.org/10.1111/caim.12456
http://wileyonlinelibrary.com/journal/caim
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1111%2Fcaim.12456&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2021-08-10
provides a helpful indication of the broader implications of these
emerging infrastructures.
Even though technical challenges such as the long-term security,
sustainability, stability, scalability and transaction speed of blockchain
applications are still being resolved, nevertheless these nascent
technologies are starting to be implemented within industry and
governments and also increasingly the broader public as tools for
digital value creation and trade. Facebook's enforced rethink
(Knowles, 2020) of its early efforts to launch the first global Libra
cryptocurrency amidst a public and regulatory backlash (against the
risk that Facebook would control global currency) reflects not only
how close these technologies are to potential mainstream adoption,
but also the power struggles currently underway to control them.
As blockchain applications multiply, it is important to continue to
interrogate their applications and implications:
Numerous studies (Karafiloski & Mishev, 2017; Konstantinidis
et al., 2018; O'Dair et al., 2016; Seebacher & Schüritz, 2017; Wang
et al., 2019) have already analysed how blockchain technologies
might change particular industries. This study of the implications of
blockchain technologies for digital creative industries is grounded in
the Scottish context. Across urban clusters like Dundee (games and
comics), Edinburgh (tech) and Glasgow (film and virtual reality
[VR]), Scotland's digital creative industries are dynamic and
expansive. Nevertheless, in common with the bulk of Scottish
enterprise, they are characterized by 99.4% small- to medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs) (Scottish Government, 2017), with limited research
and development (R&D) capability. As a result, previous studies of
Scotland's creative industries have repeatedly called for robust and
widespread networking support (Chisholm et al., 2014; Creative
Scotland, 2016).
The vast majority of people working in the creative industries
worldwide tend to be either working solo or in small teams with limited
time and resources available to help them manage the administrative
and legal aspects of their business, let alone research and develop inno-
vations, or even acquire the skills required in a fast-changing digital
ecology. The prospect that blockchain technologies can help to ease
that load has immense implications (Rennie et al., 2019).
Predictions abound that ‘the blockchain revolution’ (Tapscott &
Tapscott, 2016a) ushers a paradigm shift for creative economies. Con-
textualized by the speculative cryptocurrency sector that can raise
millions on the strength of ideas alone, it is important that this
research critically judges the difference between hype and
realistic hope.
I begin this study by first considering the emerging use cases, as
well as the challenges relevant to those innovations. Following this, I
analyse the notion of a ‘blockchain revolution’ (Berg et al., 2017;
Klaus, 2017; Radziwill, 2018; Tapscott & Tapscott, 2016a), by compar-
ing the development trajectory of these emerging technologies with
Christensen's seminal theory (Christensen et al., 2015) of disruptive
business innovations. Because the popular idea of a blockchain
revolution refers to a broader shift again, I also consider the potential
extent of that shift with reference to Schuelke-Leech's (2018) discus-
sion of second-order disruptions.
2 | METHODOLOGY
In 2018, I conducted a 9-month, mixed-methods study in Scotland
that included an in-depth literature review, field research and a series
of semi-structured telephone interviews.
To better understand the capacity and potential of blockchain
technologies, I initially spent 3 months reviewing the relevant
literature including the latest media, industry and interview data.
Simultaneously, in order to study the social and industrial
contexts in which these technologies might be applied, I attended
relevant creative industry events across Scotland such as technology
expos, practitioner meetups and symposiums.
I also conducted a series of semi-structured telephone
interviews with over 30 select Scottish digital creative industries
spokespersons, including technologists, developers, artists, commen-
tators and business leaders. Those interviews inform much of the
discussion about engagement with blockchain technologies within
this study.
3 | WHAT ARE BLOCKCHAIN
TECHNOLOGIES?
In essence, a blockchain is a decentralized, computerized system
of identical, distributed ledgers stored across multiple nodes.
There is no central ledger but numerous linked, identical ledgers.
Authentication of those ledgers occurs via a cryptographic process
that cross-checks any change or discrepancy between each ledger.
The security of the blockchain is thus derived from the power of
numbers, or collective inspection, due to the need to achieve
consensus across multiple records. This avoids the need for additional
authentication from trusted third parties like banks or notaries.
Blockchain technologies thus enable semi-autonomous, pseudon-
ymous, remote and secure peer-to-peer transactions (the 2009
Bitcoin innovation). Combined with a system of smart contracts
(the 2015 Ethereum innovation), those transactions can also be
systematic. Smart contracts are coded agreements that can be
programmed to automatically enact predetermined processes, like
paying amount X to A, when B happens. Digital smart contracts
enable microtransactions and complex, compounding calculations
upon agreed, verifiable conditions.
Alongside artificial intelligence, the internet of things, 3-D printing
and nanotech, blockchain technologies have been characterized as
essential aspects of an upcoming fourth industrial revolution. The
timing of that maturation process is still a matter of debate, varying
from a few years to establish web 3.0 business models (Carson
et al., 2018), to more conservative estimates of upwards of
20–30 years before smart cities can hope to become fully operational.
As web 3.0 technologies mature, blockchain-inspired technologies are
likely to feature prominently. By securing automated trade, blockchain
technologies enable internet of things devices to conduct secure,
autonomous transactions including micro and compounding
transactions, like Bitbarista, an experimental coffee machine that is
586 PATRICKSON
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://www.raspberrypi.org/blog/bitbarista/
programmed to self-source and serve ethical coffee, as well as pay
customers to help maintain it (Tallyn et al., 2018).
4 | BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGIES IN THE
DIGITAL CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
According to this U.K. policy statement creative industries:
… have their origin in individual creativity, skill and tal-
ent and which have a potential for wealth and job crea-
tion through the generation and exploitation of
intellectual property (The UK Department of Culture,
Media and Sport, 2003).
This study explores the implications of blockchain technologies
for those who produce a creative digital output or service. By
providing systems for secure digital asset creation and trade, transpar-
ent and accountable distribution records, faster royalty payments and
even potentially dynamic pricing systems that can change according
to the context of sale, blockchains seem to offer hope for a
streamlined, sustainable artist-centric ecosystem.
This is important for a number of reasons. The creative industries are
regarded as a profitable sector of the U.K. economy, but the industrializa-
tion of digital creativity also has enormous implications (Belfiore, 2020;
Towse, 2020). Digital environments are generally connected, shared, per-
sonalized, tracked, analysed and increasingly automated (Potts, 2016).
They are also complex, vulnerable to fraud and exploitation. Due to the
democratization of technology, a resurgence of entrepreneurialism, faster
transitions to scale and more access to networked funds, the digital
ecology is dynamic and fluid (WorldEconomicForum, 2016). Yet, at the
same time due to network economies of scale, this ecology is prone to
centralization and exploitation.
Networked commerce encourages the rise of platform monopolies,
and in the creative industries, it can create vast income
discrepancies. In oversaturated, networked markets, a few ‘super-stars’
(Mulligan, 2014) rise to prominence and can enjoy enormous wealth.
The astronomical 2021 sale of the first digital only artwork ever sold at
Christie's auction house is a prime example. The digital artist Beeple's
photo collage of The First 5000 Days, a collection of his daily produc-
tions of digital asset artworks, or non-fungible tokens (NFTs), sold for
$69.3 million. Meanwhile, the vast majority of digital creatives struggle
to secure increasingly precarious incomes (McRobbie, 2018). Against
this backdrop, social distribution channels combine to embed a hype
cycle in the marketplace that creates instability across the sector.
Contextualized by these considerations, blockchain technologies
offer numerous opportunities and challenges.
4.1 | Intellectual property
Blockchain solves a problem that nobody's resolved
before … digital scarcity … by making the possibility of
duplication almost impossible (it) opens up a whole
new range of possibilities (Musician).
This change is as potentially creative, as it is also likely to be
exploited.
4.1.1 | IP: Ownership
NFTs can be traded as a unique digital asset (see Rarible). They are
called non-fungibles because, unlike gold, they cannot automatically
be swapped like for like amount without some form of negotiation of
value. NFTs can be bought and sold at any stage before, during or
after a creative process. Ownership can also be divided in to more liq-
uid, micro-shares to make expensive works and collective sponsorship
options more accessible. This sort of asset is a complicated notion
nevertheless, because NFT registration does not include the right to
own proprietary visual elements, and the image can still generally be
copied. The key point for collectors is that only registered owners
have the right to trade that file.
Beeple's extraordinary auction result flagged an iconic internet
moment, propelling NFTs into the heights of celebration and contro-
versy (regards the potential profiteering and environmental footprint
of an energy churning market labelled a pyramid scheme for early
investors, for example [Day, 2021; Ohlheiser, 2021]).
Blockchains can track registered ownership transfer over time,
but associated systems also need to be in place to verify ownership at
the point of registration. As it stands, the fraudulent copy, paste and
registration of other artist's images is common practice. In light of this,
gatekeeper galleries are becoming more important. Historically, digital
collectibles were more populist. They emerged out of meme cultures,
which tend to celebrate pixelated aesthetics and internet in-jokes, like
the ironic celebration of ‘dank’ (tacky, cute, quirky, weird, ridiculous)
aesthetics in the Rare Pepe trade (green frogs as art). The CryptoKitties
game, another early viral meme, combines cartoon digital art with
basic gameplay mechanics (generative mating) and commercial trade.
Each cat is created using an algorithmic text string referred to as
DNA, registered on the Ethereum blockchain that translates into a
unique, digital representation on the CryptoKitties website.
Systematic ownership can also be linked to creative experiences.
Players who build and earn in game assets, for example, can now also
securely trade them (see Terravirtua) much like digital trading cards.
Back in the early 90s, I was looking at Magic The
Gathering and thought it was incredible, both a game
that's fun to play but also appeals to the geeky
collector. I felt compelled to buy in to these packs of
cards without even knowing the contents … They
basically hacked my neurology, maybe not deliberately
but they did it really well.
Previously it's been impossible to do that in a digital
realm. … Blockchain on the other hand has the
PATRICKSON 587
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://rarible.com/
http://rarepepedirectory.com/
https://www.cryptokitties.co/
https://terravirtua.io/
https://magic.wizards.com/en
https://magic.wizards.com/en
potential to change that … So something like Magic The
Gathering can work in computer games now
(Computer game producer).
Indeed, in January 2021, the fantasy football computer game
Sorare reported $4.2 million sales of in-game highlights, exported as
NFTs (Insights, 2021), emphasizing the desire to keep mementos, or
souvenirs of peak experiences, as much as the desire to hunt and
gather collectables.
Games that generate profits by offering in-game purchases raise
important questions about the ways that players might be manipu-
lated to spend money; nevertheless, the option for players to also
share the value of their own play labour and gaming achievements,
through tradeable gaming assets, is gaining momentum. At present,
the most successful use cases for NFTs within the Digital Creative
Industries are blockchain gaming, e-sports and digital art markets. As
cryptocurrencies become increasingly mainstream (Smith, 2021), the
market for NFTs is likely to grow substantially.
4.1.2 | IP: Licencing
At present, obscure and convoluted digital distribution channels for
digital sales make it very difficult for creatives to effectively profit
from their work2 (Rennie et al., 2019).
Blockchain technologies offer enormous opportunities
for creative industries. The current business structures
for artist generated content are hugely archaic. At the
moment we rely on a system where the middle-person,
or institution takes a certain cut which I'm not sure is
justified … the potential for disruption is huge
(Blockchain consultant).
Streaming services, for example, have become a major distribu-
tion mechanism but pay artists very little. To generate just one penny
in royalty payments on Spotify and Youtube, it might take between
120 and 170 streams of a single song. It can also take months for pay-
ments to be issued. One royalty tracking company estimates that $1.1
billion per annum is lost each year in missing royalties across distribu-
tion outlets overall (Harris in Ward, 2017).
Industries that rely on digital microtransactions and complex
licencing or collaboration contracts stand to gain the most from an
overhaul of licencing and distribution infrastructures (Rennie
et al., 2019). Automated payments of multiple, distinct contributors
have already been successfully trialed on the Musicoin Project
platform, as well as have stipulations that authors receive further
commissions from any secondary sales (see Publica, the blockchain for
books) and smart ticketing systems designed to help creators track
sales and manage potential resales in real time (see Aventus). This level
of automation is likely to increase.
Unfortunately for creatives, these alternative marketplaces are
still relatively small. Blockchain technologies are complex, and they
can be hard to understand. Even despite the enormous attention that
cryptocurrencies receive, they are not yet mainstream currencies.
Cryptocurrency payments are relatively slow to process and generally
require a fee for service. If and when more cryptocurrency-related
regulations are in place, this trend may change very quickly. For now,
millions of dollars have been invested in blockchain ecosystems that
few people are engaging with. As yet, the most successful emerging
use cases are NFTs in gaming, e-sport applications and digital collect-
ables. Gaming cultures tend to be familiar with new technologies and
may already be trading game assets in marketplaces that were
previously rife with fraud, so NFTs have been embraced as both an
investment and a store of value.
How do you stop people from copying games? … by
disassembling and reassembling it they can pretty
much bypass any amount of circular security and
encryption … Blockchain on the other hand has the
potential to provide a really elegant solution
(Computer game producer).
The capacity to track and authenticate every computer code
change has intriguing applications. At the same time, this is a cautious
potential, because creative copyright systems may still need to be
flexible enough to accommodate creative remix and also account for
group collaboration contexts. A study of collaborative game develop-
ment practice, for example, emphasized that creative work is often
fluid and individual influence can be hard to define or even capture in
material formats (Patrickson, 2019).
When Lawrence Lessig, pioneer of the Creative Commons move-
ment, uploaded his earlier book Code and other Laws of Cyberspace
(Lessig, 1999) to an online wiki and invited a collaborative update, the
group agreed that a cryptographic identity layer was likely to be
the most effective tool to regulate the internet but warned of the
dangers this posed. ‘When it becomes easy or cheap to regulate, …
lib- erty is at risk. We can expect more regulation … (s)oon’
(Lessig, 2006, p. 310).
Encrypted verification of trade is likely to be a cornerstone of
web 3.0, and at this point, it is not clear how contemporary cultures
will react to the results.
4.2 | Shifting values
The creative industries traditionally champion a broad range of aes-
thetic and well-being values, so decentralized societal transformation
experiments are already underway.
Glasgow-based artist, Ailie Rutherford, together with design
researcher Bettina Nissen, and the people of Glasgow's diverse
Govanhill community have been exploring how a cryptocurrency
might be designed to help support a feminist social care agenda. Their
hope is that by capturing and rewarding womens' traditional work, so
often undervalued by current socio-economic systems, a digital cryp-
tocurrency can help to promote ‘the diversity and richness of local
588 PATRICKSON
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://sorare.com/
https://www.spotify.com/
https://www.youtube.com/
https://musicoin.org/
https://publica.la/
https://blog.aventus.io/the-aventus-classic-%F0app-competition-is-now-live-eab54805e7cb
communities as a form of wealth’ (thealternative.org, 2017). Through
a series of community crypto-knitting workshops, discussion groups
and digital pilots of a local distributed exchange network, the collec-
tive are exploring ways to reward community activism and care work.
Their agenda is to ensure that ‘current gender, race and class biases
aren't coded into the currency of the future so it's more fair and
equal’ (Riddoch, 2018).
Social value transformation efforts3 in blockchain ecosystems
often seek to incentivize social enrichment behaviours through a
series of rewards for prescribed actions. The prospect that the value
of everything could become manifest in token4 blockchain ecosystems
raises complex questions nevertheless. In the creative sector, there is
a real risk that tokenization will deter, rather than motivate creativity
values. As Malik and Butt (2017) have shown in an extensive review
of creativity and rewards literature, creative practitioners tend to
value aesthetic pleasure, playfulness, interpersonal relationships and
communal processes, whereas performance-contingent metrics
and their associated financial rewards can be perceived as controlling
and ultimately de-motivational (Malik & Butt, 2017).
For example, when the artist Kevin Abosch gained fame with
investors, he felt that his creativity had been compromised. In
response, he attempted to regain some control of his own commodifi-
cation by tokenizing himself. In an art project he dubbed, IAMACoin,
he imprinted his own blood in the contract address of 10 million self-
created virtual digital assets representing his blood supply. Shortly
after this, he started to feel even more commodified:
I was getting contacted by people from hedge-funds.
People from Qatar and Silicon Valley … asked if
100,000 tokens might be available, and a million and
would they get a discount if they bought that much …
(Abosch in Christies, 2018).
Experiments to turn social networks into an attention economy
can risk similar discomfort.
Our sector is driven by non-market forces mostly, so
things like judging people on their performance are not
primary for us and may be off-putting (Founding mem-
ber of Delic, the Scottish music creation network).
Recognizing that people have complicated relationships to price-
less experiences, the Gitcoin open-source network provides another
helpful role model. They chose not to tokenize their efforts to support
blockchain open-source development. Instead, they emphasized the
importance of freedom and social value in the face of commercializa-
tion. Open-source projects are historically done for free, motivated by
a collaborative hacker ethic (Himanen, 2010). Developed by and for
open-source developers, Gitcoin provides a blockchain development
collaboration platform dedicated to knowledge sharing and the
support/incentivization of social-enrichment, open-source projects. In
order to balance the intrinsic and extrinsic motivations involved, the
Gitcoin platform offers optional, paid commissions called bounties
that participants can choose to work on, as well as who to work with.
Complimenting this, funds are also circulated through sponsored
hackathons (challenges to make green/sustainable NFTs, for example),
crowd-sourced ‘grants’ and an in-house NFT marketplace known as
Kudos, described as ‘the easiest way to show appreciation and build
relationships in open source’ (gitcoin.io, 2018). Since it started in
November 2017, Gitcoin has generated almost $20 million funding
for open-source projects.
4.3 | Models for collaborative practice
A 2018 McKinsey business report predicted that ‘over time the value
of blockchain will shift from driving cost reduction to enabling entirely
new business models and revenue streams’ (Carson et al., 2018, p. 8).
Historically, business dealings are characterized by extreme competi-
tion and corporate secrecy. A more collaborative approach via shared
databases and information flows, for example, could require such sub-
stantial transformations that incumbents are forced to completely
overhaul legacy frameworks.
One Scottish business leader interviewed during the course of
this research project pointed out, however, that complementary col-
laborations are more likely to occur between developers or across
supply chains. Collaborations between enterprises with similar profiles
have thus far only involved the development of shared protocols or
frameworks for sharing data, such as between government entities.
Even these are sensitive negotiations. In another example, a bold but
ultimately fraught collective experiment to pool and store modern art
works for later resale in order to equitably distribute pensions
between members, known as The Artist's Pension Trust, has been
beset by controversies regarding the introduction of storage fees by
subsequent commercial partners (Jones, 2018).
Even with smart contracts in place, it is likely that collaborative
aspirations will still need to be proactively nurtured, sustained and,
where appropriate, managed by people, as much as algorithms
(Patrickson et al., 2020).
4.4 | Funding
In the height of the 2017 bitcoin speculation rush, a new fundraising
practice known as an Initial Coin Offering (ICO) became (briefly)
outlandishly popular. Spurred by the speculative bubble, disruptive
capacity was often brandished as a self-generated promotional leg-
end. Astonishingly, most ICO bounties (often funded by inexperienced
investors) were gained without any equity loss simply by embedding a
cryptocurrency in the whitepaper and selling coins in that enterprise
currency in exchange for little more than the promise of a later price
rise. When at least 50% of these enterprises failed within 12 months
of the sale (Hankin, 2018), the ICO rush stalled.
Alongside the explosion of NFT production in 2021, decentralized
finance (DeFi) applications grew to prominence. DeFi applications are
currently focused upon peer-to-peer financing agreements for
PATRICKSON 589
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://www.iamacoin.com/
http://www.delic.network/
https://gitcoin.co/
cryptocurrency trading purposes, but in future, these instruments may
also help to finance short-term creative projects, both locally and
globally. The research-driven cryptocurrency platform Cardano, for
example, aims to become a sustainable instrument for global financial
inclusion by facilitating savings and loans in developing and frontier
nations.
5 | SUMMARY REVIEW OF EMERGING
FEATURES OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY
APPLICATIONS WITHIN THE DIGITAL
CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
Blockchain (and blockchain-inspired) technologies have the potential
to transform the digital creative industries in numerous ways,
including:
1. By enabling digital rarity, creating opportunities for systematic digi-
tal assets.
2. By forging potential new capital investment sources for creative
enterprise, including the option of collective/micro sponsorship,
and peer-to-peer finance.
3. By linking potentially transformational, computational processes to
social value exchange.
4. By streamlining complex IP and distribution management systems,
helping to offset digital fraud and exploitation.
5. By enabling people to more easily share in the value of their own
mediated activities and cloud computing capacity.
6. By privileging collaborative data-sharing networks and more open,
collective intelligence business models.
Do these innovations amount to a paradigmatic shift or simply a
more streamlined ecosystem?
6 | HOW DISRUPTIVE ARE BLOCKCHAIN
TECHNOLOGIES, REALLY?
Digital disruptions have been defined as ‘the alteration of a domain-
specific5 paradigm due to the digital attributes of an innovation’
(Baiyere & Hukal, 2020, p. 5482). Unlike previous digital innovations
linked to classic digital characteristics like convergence, remix and
generativity (Baiyere & Hukal, 2020), blockchain technologies enable
automated checks and complex trades amongst decentralized
networks.
In popular discourse, the term ‘disruptive innovation’ has often
been linked to the idea of a paradigm shift that upends established
businesses and ways of doing things, but this terminology is said to
confuse the original theory of disruptive business innovation
(Christensen, 1997, 2013):
‘Disruption’ describes a process whereby a smaller com-
pany with fewer resources is able to successfully chal-
lenge established incumbent businesses. Specifically, as
incumbents focus on improving their products and ser-
vices for their most demanding (and usually most profit-
able) customers, they exceed the needs of some
segments and ignore the needs of others. Entrants that
prove disruptive begin by successfully targeting those
overlooked segments, gaining a foothold by delivering
more-suitable functionality frequently at a lower price.
Incumbents, chasing higher profitability in more-
demanding segments, tend not to respond vigorously.
Entrants then move upmarket, delivering the perfor-
mance that incumbents' mainstream customers require,
while preserving the advantages that drove their early
success. When mainstream customers start adopting
the entrants' offerings in volume, disruption has
occurred (Christensen et al., 2015, p. 4).
According to Christensen et al. (2015), their model does not apply
to all innovations. For instance, they argue that Uber is a
transformational innovation within the taxi industry, rather than
disruptive, because it does not fit his empirical definition of disruptive
innovation. It did not create new markets but targeted existing taxi
customers from the start and simply offered a cheaper service, which
soon became very popular. Christensen et al. describe this as a
sustaining innovation, a more convenient, digital booking and
payment system, linked to a public review option (Christensen
et al., 2015).
By contrast, blockchain technologies are fringe, beta technologies
that have created new markets such as cryptocurrency trade and are
developing fast, which also fits the evolutionary aspects of disruptive
innovation (Christensen et al., 2015).
They are also sustaining innovations in some contexts. Although
blockchain technologies were originally designed to disrupt finance
industries, for example, ironically, the finance sector was a notable
early adopter of these automated reconciliation tools (Friedlmaier
et al., 2018) and is likely to be even more so if and when regulations
allow. This variable impact aligns with later, modified disruption the-
ory (Christensen et al., 2018).
Another key aspect of Christensen's theory is that ambitious,
flashy innovations are the least likely to achieve disruption
(Christensen & Dillon, 2020). If a challenger becomes the target of
stiff business competition before they are strong enough to withstand
it, they are more likely to fall foul of their own ambitions. The most
successful disruptors succeed by underwhelming their competition at
the start. According to this theory, usability is the best indicator of dis-
ruption, not flashy products.
The NFT cultures that were at home in internet forums and grew
to become international art world sensations reflect this sort of
trajectory. Bitcoin was also originally underestimated and much
cheaper than it is now (Lee, 2013). Yet, with all the hype and confu-
sion that has surrounded bitcoin, it can hardly be described as modest
or even necessarily usable.
Subsequent research has questioned the accuracy of Christensen
et al.'s model, identifying high-end entry businesses disruptors
590 PATRICKSON
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://www.cardano.co.uk/
(King & Baatartogtokh, 2015), as well as new encroachments from
long-term competitors (Hang et al., 2011).
In peer-to-peer blockchain ecosystems, speculative cultures also
impact disruptive processes. Previous studies of hype across a range
of industries have found that disruption hype rarely leads to actual
disruptive results (Wade, Bonnet, & Shan, 2020). If anything, the hype
tends to make technology sectors overly focused on disruptive
threats, often neglecting, or even prematurely abandoning their
existing activities in order to jump aboard emerging trends (Wade
et al., 2020).
Yet, the Ethereum challenger, EOS blockchain, which achieved a
record $4 billion plus start-up investment through its 2017 ICO, for
example, launched in a prominent market position before it even
started. Whether that investment will ever return comparable profits
or indeed whether such early ICO frenzy will ever repeat remains to
be seen, but it does place EOS in an extraordinarily strong start-up
position that Christensen et al.'s low-end disruption model does not
seem to adequately account for.
Part of the reason for this anomaly is Christensen et al.'s fur-
ther distinction between low end market encroachment and new
market disruptors. New technologies enable innovators to create
entirely new markets that can introduce new market conditions.
New markets entrants target niche customers, not served by
incumbents such as (in the case of blockchain applications) the tra-
ditionally unbanked or uninvested who wish to build microsavings,
process micropayments and trade digital assets. Low-end disruptions
and new market disruptions are not mutually exclusive. Indeed,
ICOs are a mixture of the two, because they are both low-end
investments, compared with the overall investment market as well
as a totally new investing context, linked to speculative network
dynamics.
7 | WHAT DOES THIS SUGGEST ABOUT
THE LIKELIHOOD OF A BLOCKCHAIN
REVOLUTION?
Christensen has warned that traditional finance instruments currently
offer very little by way of returns for savers and are ripe for an over-
haul. He reportedly described bitcoin as a potential future disruptor as
early as 2016 (Erickson, 2016).
Blockchain technologies undoubtedly create numerous opportu-
nities for disruptive innovation, but in order to effectively evaluate
the likelihood of ‘paradigm shifts’ (Rifkin, 2014) away from market
capitalism towards a web 3.0 collaborative commons, it is necessary
to move beyond Christensen's business-focused disruption model.
Brown (2003) refers to the need to innovate our notion of innovation
itself, so that we also consider the broader social and political contexts
of industry changes.
In this age of digital monopolies, “blockchain” has
become a cry for “digital, but open and inclusive as
well (MacDonald-Korth et al., 2018a).
Engineering forecasting researcher Schuelke-Leech (2018)
distinguishes between first- and second-order disruptions. First-order
disruptions are localized changes within a market or industry, whereas
second-order disruptions involve much larger influences that trans-
form the existing model of capitalism, organizational structures and
social interaction. When second-order disruptions combine to create
a unified technology bundle, like web 3.0, they can create a new long
wave technology trend (Schuelke-Leech, 2018).
Critical factors that determine the transition from first- to
second-order disruption include available networks of expertise, a
large number of potential applications that can change the way that
people use services, financial resources, supporting infrastructures
and institutions. With all of these aspects in place (global networks,
accessible training support developing markets, reflecting a growing
interest in decentralized, peer-to-peer retail applications, alongside a
myriad of potential industry applications, access to venture finance,
developing infrastructures and looming institutional frameworks), it is
apparent that blockchain technologies are emergent second-order
disruptions.
Whether these sorts of disruptions will indeed be revolutionary
depends upon the way that revolution is conceived.
I got in to bitcoin about 2012ish and fell down the rab-
bit hole severely. Certainly, back in those days it was
changing the world in everybody's head at least. …
Now it's very corporate – a lot of it is very much enter-
prise based and permission/chain based and to be hon-
est that doesn't excite me (Blockchain consultant).
Reflecting upon hopes for a free society in the early days of the
internet where information is readily available and flows freely across
borders, former Google CEO Eric Schmidt described it as ‘… the larg-
est experiment in anarchy we've ever had’ (Schmidt quoted in
Taylor, 2010). The reality is however that over time, Google has
emerged as one of only a handful of companies dubbed the big five
(Microsoft, Apple, Facebook, Amazon and Google) that dominate
transactions on the internet. In stark contrast to the original visions of
the World Wide Web as a place freed from the concerns of ownership
or regulation of information, online media are now closely surveilled
and highly commercialized. As we stand at the precipice of what some
have dubbed, ‘the second web’ (Johnson, 2017), where the internet
of information is becoming a place where ‘value throughout our lives
will be quantified and tokenized’ (Mosites, 2017), it is hard to ignore
potential parallels with the early days of the internet that ‘changed
everything – and nothing’ (Orr, 2014).
The shift towards the use of more private, blockchain-inspired
distributed ledgers (Deloitte, 2018) that only enable permission-based
access to shared records, for example, may well be important for pri-
vacy protection and demonstrates how established ways of doing
things can quickly reassert themselves.
It is important to remember too that by enabling secure data-
sharing across organizations, blockchain technologies can potentially
encourage a combined meta-centralization6 of records. Rather than
PATRICKSON 591
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://eos.io/
cut out intermediaries, there is a risk that blockchain technologies will
instead create new ones. The hope for decentralization enthusiasts is
that the new gatekeepers will be more accountable and cheaper
(UnblockedEvents, 2018).
The idea of blockchain appealed to me – the idea of
running something without interference … without an
entity behind controlling it. It's not entirely living up to
that … but in the end it's still an improvement … we
have something unique (Blockchain game developer).
Schuelke-Leech (2018) argues that all second-order disruptions
are likely to have broad-ranging and unexpected influences that need
to be proactively managed:
Leveraging technology for greater societal benefits can
only happen when people are able to access and use
these technologies for positive social activities. The
dominance of private finance in the development and
commercialization of technologies, coupled with the
increasing public sector stresses and societal inequities,
implies that there will be many people locked out of
the benefits that technologies can provide (Schuelke-
Leech, 2018, p. 270).
To help counter centralization pressures, concerted efforts are
currently underway (see the Scottish Safe Network by Maidsafe, as
well as the MIT Solid project led by Tim Berner's Lee) to build a
globally accessible, private and secure peer-to-peer internet
infrastructure that can also give people more control over their own
data trails. With web 3.0 applications predicted to propel unprece-
dented, ubiquitous (everywhere) data surveillance, it seems likely
that a more efficient, private internet will become a key site for
future public networks.
In theory, distributed cloud computing avoids centralization by
dispersing servers across a complex network of peer-to-peer contribu-
tors. In practice, web 3.0 still entails a costly development process
(MacDonald-Korth et al., 2018b). Blockchain developer wages are
estimated to be anywhere between $US90,000 and $175,000/annum
in America (Simplilearn, 2021), so SMEs may not be able to develop
decentralized applications themselves and instead may need to access
them through a service agreement.
Bearing in mind that cryptocurrency ecosystems are notori-
ously rife with corruption, fraud, scams, greed, criminal
money laundering and extreme income disparity, blockchain
technologies provide ingenious tools to help manage that level of
uncertainty.
Personally, I think that the great benefit of blockchain
is that there are no human adjudicators and that the
human part of the adjudication happens at the start
when you choose to participate, or not (Computer
game producer).
Whether algorithms operationalized by consensus technologies
can achieve the goal of ‘open and inclusive’ digital creative ecosys-
tems is as yet uncertain. In the cryptocurrency sphere, decentralized
governance controlled by developers can just as readily devolve into
vicious in-fighting. ‘It remains to be seen if decentralized governance,
or “mob rule” as some have called it, will be better than centralized
governance by an arbitrary CEO’ (Walters, 2021).
8 | SPECULATING A BLOCKCHAIN
REVOLUTION FOR THE DIGITAL CREATIVE
INDUSTRIES
Society is now so connected, and change is happening so fast that
governance structures struggle to keep up. For the most part, interac-
tive systems are left to play out in order for their results to emerge,
which, in many cases, is a grossly inadequate response.
One way to proactively manage possible future scenarios is to
explore them through design fiction ‘Design speculations can act as a
catalyst for collectively redefining our relationships to reality’
(Dunne & Raby, 2013, p. 2). Because speculative cultures are so
imbued in any discussion of blockchain technologies, perhaps it
is appropriate to end this discussion with another speculation:
What if?
1. What if carbon neutral, fast and cheap blockchain-inspired systems
for digital rarity and cryptocurrency trade emerge and inspire
future digital creative practitioners to form multiple, open-book
Decentralised Autonomous Organisations (DAOs)?
2. What if immense, global blockchain-powered trade networks
emerge from these DAOs and wield enormous, networked buying
power that members use to prioritize open and shared data, plus
local suppliers of ethical (fair trade/fair wage/fair earth), digital
products and services?
3. What if these DAOs also produce ingenious, systematic NFTs,
including collaborative/collective NFT series, with micropricing
agreements and multiple payment options that change dynamically
according to a range of infinite, fine-tuned conditions?
4. What if each DAO can also decide whether to build immense,
global (authenticated) and managed/indexed ethical investment
and sponsorship collectives for the traditionally uninvested?
5. What if a world government intervenes to ensure that Universal
Basic Income (UBI, a minimum income for all, without conditions),
free healthcare and education are standard across all DAOs?7
Fundamentally, blockchains provide an economic infrastructure
enabling parties to coordinate amongst themselves (Rennie
et al., 2019, p. 12).
Christensen et al.'s theory is a reminder not to underestimate
fringe projects with a job to do (Christensen & Dillon, 2020). Global
societies face a growing digital divide, the risk of further pandemics
and a looming climate crisis. Grassroots aspirations for decentralized
community governance may yet drive immense future changes.
592 PATRICKSON
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://safenetwork.tech/
https://maidsafe.net/
https://solid.mit.edu/
However, for this to occur, a broad range of public sponsored
governance mechanisms may also need to develop.
9 | CONCLUSION
By providing systems for digital rarity, transparent distribution
records, faster royalty payments, dynamic pricing models that support
micro/complex/compound payments, plus distributed data collabora-
tion, blockchain-inspired technologies do seem to offer emerging tools
for a more streamlined, artist-centric digital ecosystem in Scotland
and beyond.
Blockchain technologies enable disruptive digital innovations
(Christensen, 1997, 2013), although the speculative networked cycles
that dominate cryptocurrency markets also challenge Christensen's
model (Christensen, 1997, 2013) of successful low-end disruptors.
From this review of the digital disruption implications of these
emerging technologies, it appears that in the coming web 3.0 era,
blockchain-inspired technologies could potentially disrupt incum-
bents that cannot or will not share value, or data, or that simply
cannot compete with (or fail to be authenticated by) faster, cheaper,
more direct, secure and potentially complex semi-autonomous
ecosystems.
As the blockchain ecosystem continues to develop and
cryptocurrencies become more mainstream, decentralized cultures
will grow. This new ecosystem is not without challenges however. For
the vast majority of SMEs, a slow growth decentralized audience is
likely to be a serious concern given the substantial development costs
and potential environmental impacts of blockchain technologies.
For now, the booming NFT trade offers the most viable and
potentially innovative entry point for most digital creative SMEs, with
clear use cases already in gaming, e-sports, and digital collectables,
and numerous potential creative applications within participatory
media more generally. Careful creativity is advised however, because
this booming digital asset trade is also linked to potentially controver-
sial speculative cultures.
Blockchain technologies are also second-order digital disruptions
(Schuelke-Leech, 2018) with distinct characteristics shaping their
numerous social, political and business implications. Emerging capaci-
ties include social value transformation, and semi-autonomous trade,
potentially supported by more collaborative business models. Risks
include further meta-centralization, environmental impacts and the
potentially intrusive commercialization of daily life and play. Further
research into the social and political implications of not only smart
computing but also hyper speculation is recommended.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work was supported by the UK Arts and Humanities Research
Council, funding award reference number is AH/R013357/1, Creative
Scotland and the Scottish Graduate School of Arts & Humanities,
including the University of Dundee, the University of Abertay,
Duncan & Jordanstane College of Art and the University of
Edinburgh.
ORCID
Bronwin Patrickson https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3623-7942
ENDNOTES
1 Bearing in mind that private keys can still be lost, and public exchanges
have been hacked.
2 Digital environments can be particularly susceptible to fraud. For exam-
ple, powered by automated bots, online advertising fraud is estimated to
cost $US6.5 billion annually (WhiteOps, 2017). Blockchain technologies
would need to work in collaboration with machine learning
technologies to counter this practice however.
3 Local alt-currencies may not need to automate trust using costly, com-
plex blockchain technologies at present. Nevertheless, as
cryptocurrencies evolve to become actual currencies I believe that these
technologies have much to offer community contexts.
4 Unlike NFTs which ascribe ownership, eco-system tokens are designed
to offer alternative transactional values specific to the rules of a virtual
eco-system. Operating as a form of payment within that ecosystem,
tokens can also enable voting rights, operate like shares, or accounting
systems, or simply provide access to a service.
5 The term domain refers to an established logic, norm or routine.
6 In 2021, prior to a Chinese government crackdown, 75% of bitcoin min-
ing was done in China, home to four of the five largest bitcoin mining
pools in the world at that time (Shead, 2021).
7 This prospect is raised, because during my field work, I observed the
popular appeal of such policies, both existing (free education and
healthcare) and hypothetical (UBI) amongst many of Scotland's digital
creative practitioners. Similar themes may feature strongly amongst pre-
ferred future social innovations emerging from the sector.
REFERENCES
Baiyere, A., & Hukal, P. (2020). Digital disruption: A conceptual
clarification.
Belfiore, E. (2020). Whose cultural value? Representation, power and crea-
tive industries. International Journal of Cultural Policy, 26(3), 383–397.
https://doi.org/10.1080/10286632.2018.1495713
Berg, C., Davidson, S., and Potts, J. 2017. "The blockchain revolution."
Institute of Public Affairs Review: A quarterly review of politics and
public affairs, the 69(4):34.
Brown, J. S. (2003). Innovating Innovation [Online]. US: John
Seely Brown. Retrieved from http://www.johnseelybrown.com/
innovatinginnovation.pdf [Accessed 2.3.18]
Carson, B., Romanelli, G., Walsh, P., & Zhumaev, A. (2018). Blockchain
beyond the hype: What is the strategic business value. McKinsey &
Company.
Chisholm, D., Grey, S., Ritchie, I., Levie, J., Harris, J., & Reeves, C. (2014).
Increasing Innovation-driven Entrepreneurship in Scotland through
Collective Impact.
Christensen, C. (1997). The Innovator's dilemma: When new technologies
cause great firms to fail. Harvard Business Review Press.
Christensen, C. (2013). The Innovator's dilemma: When new technologies
cause great firms to fail. Harvard Business Review Press.
Christensen, C. M., & Dillon, K. (2020). Disruption 2020: An interview
with Clayton M. Christensen. MIT Sloan Management Review, 61(3),
21–26.
Christensen, C. M., McDonald, R., Altman, E. J., & Palmer, J. E. (2018).
Disruptive innovation: An intellectual history and directions for future
research. Journal of Management Studies, 55(7), 1043–1078. https://
doi.org/10.1111/joms.12349
Christensen, C. M., Raynor, M. E., & McDonald, R. (2015). What is disrup-
tive innovation. Harvard Business Review, 93(12), 44–53.
PATRICKSON 593
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3623-7942
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3623-7942
https://doi.org/10.1080/10286632.2018.1495713
http://www.johnseelybrown.com/innovatinginnovation.pdf
http://www.johnseelybrown.com/innovatinginnovation.pdf
https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12349
https://doi.org/10.1111/joms.12349
Christies. 2018. "Art + tech summit: Exploring blockchain—Is the art world
ready for consensus?" YouTube, accessed 15.8.18. https://www.
youtube.com/watch?v=KT-gPtK5uHY%26t=25689s
Creative Scotland. (2016). Creative industries: A Strategy for Creative
Scotland 2016-17. Edinburgh: Creative Scotland. Retrieved from
http://www.creativescotland.com
Day, A. 2021. "NFTs are a pyramid scheme and people are already losing
money." Fstoppers, accessed 25.4.21. https://fstoppers.com/opinion/
nfts-are-pyramid-scheme-and-people-are-already-losing-money-554869
Deloitte. 2018. "Breaking blockchain open: Deloitte's 2018 global
blockchain survey." Deloitte, accessed 28.8.18. https://www2.
deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/cz/Documents/financial-services/
cz-2018-deloitte-global-blockchain-survey.pdf
Dunne, A., & Raby, F. (2013). Speculative everything: Design, fiction, and
social dreaming. MIT press.
Erickson, S. (2016). 2 must-know investing tips from Clayton Christensen.
The Motley Fool, accessed 4.4.2021. https://www.fool.com/investing/
2016/12/13/2-must-know-investing-tips-from-clayton-christense.aspx
Friedlmaier, M., Tumasjan, A., and Welpe, I. M. 2018. "Disrupting indus-
tries with blockchain: The industry, venture capital funding, and
regional distribution of blockchain ventures." Venture Capital Funding,
and Regional Distribution of Blockchain Ventures (September
22, 2017). Proceedings of the 51st Annual Hawaii International
Conference on System Sciences (HICSS).
Ghandi, P., Khanna, S., & Ramaswamy, S. (2016). Which industries are
most digital (and why)? [Online]. U.S.: Harvard Business Review.
Retrived from https://hbr.org/2016/04/a-chart-that-shows-which-
industries-are-the-most-digital-and-why [Accessed 4.2.2018]
gitcoin.io. 2018. "Introducing Kudos" gitcoin.co, accessed 3.4.21. https://
gitcoin.co/blog/introducing-kudos/
Hang, C. C., Chen, J., & Dan, Y. (2011). An assessment framework for dis-
ruptive innovation. Foresight, 13, 4–13. https://doi.org/10.1108/
14636681111170185
Hankin, A. (2018). Nearly half of all 2017 ICOs have failed. Market Watch,
accessed 3.8.18. https://www.marketwatch.com/story/nearly-half-of-
all-2017-icos-have-failed-2018-02-26
Himanen, P. (2010). The hacker ethic. Random House.
Insights, L. 2021. "Blockchain collectible firm Sorare raises $50m for NFT
fantasy sports." ledgerinsights.com, accessed 20.4.21. https://www.
ledgerinsights.com/blockchain-collectible-firm-sorare-raises-50m-for-
nft-fantasy-sports/
Johnson, M. (2017). Blockchain—Creating a second internet for marketers.
DWA, accessed 3.3.18. http://www.dwamedia.com/en/Blockchain-
Creating-a-Second-Internet-for-Marketers
Jones, R. (2018). Artists in battle over modern artwork pension fund. The
Guardian, accessed 3.8.18. https://www.theguardian.com/money/
2018/mar/17/art-pension-trust-investment-legal-action-artists
Karafiloski, E., & Mishev, A. (2017). Blockchain solutions for big data chal-
lenges: A literature review. IEEE EUROCON 2017-17th International
Conference on Smart Technologies.
King, A. A., & Baatartogtokh, B. (2015). How useful is the theory of disrup-
tive innovation? MIT Sloan Management Review, 57(1), 77.
Klaus, I. (2017). Don Tapscott and Alex Tapscott: Blockchain revolution.
New Global Studies, 11(1), 47–53.
Knowles, T. (2020). Facebook eases back plans for libra digital currency.
The Times, accessed 5.3.2020. https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/
facebook-eases-back-plans-for-libra-digital-currency-h8s6jp2xz
Konstantinidis, I., Siaminos, G., Timplalexis, C., Zervas, P., Peristeras, V., &
Decker, S. (2018). Blockchain for business applications: A systematic lit-
erature review. International Conference on Business Information
Systems.
Lee, T. B. 2013. "Bitcoin Is A Disruptive Technology." accessed 3.4.21.
https://www.forbes.com/sites/timothylee/2013/04/09/bitcoin-is-a-
disruptive-technology/?sh=4032b2072956
Lessig, L. (2006). Code version 2.0. Basic Books.
Lessig, L. (1999). Code and other Laws of cyberspace. Basic Books.
MacDonald-Korth, D., Lehdonvirta, V., and Meyer, E. T. 2018a. "The art
market 2.0: Blockchain and financialisation in visual arts."
MacDonald-Korth, D., Lehdonvirta, V., and Meyer, E. T. 2018b. Art market
2.0: Blockchain and Financialisation in visual arts. DACS.
Malik, M. A. R., & Butt, A. N. (2017). Rewards and creativity: Past, present,
and future. Applied Psychology, 66(2), 290–325. https://doi.org/10.
1111/apps.12080
McRobbie, A. (2018). Be creative: Making a living in the new culture indus-
tries. Polity Press.
Mosites, D. 2017. "Tokenization and ICOs: An interview with
Don Mosites, Swap Protocol." unblockedevents.com, accessed 3.3.18.
https://unblockedevents.com/2017/07/20/tokenization-interview-
don-mosites-swap/
Mulligan, M. (2014). The death of the long tail: The superstar music
economy. MIDiA, accessed 3.8.18. https://www.midiaresearch.com/
downloads/the-death-of-the-long-tail-the-superstar-music-economy/
O'Dair, M. (2018). Distributed creativity: How Blockchain technology will
transform the creative economy. Springer.
O'Dair, M., Beaven, Z., Neilson, D., Osborne, R., & Pacifico, P. (2016). Music
on the Blockchain.
Ohlheiser, A. 2021. "Some artists found a lifeline selling NFTs. Others
worry it's a trap." technologyreview.com, accessed 27.4.21. https://
www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/25/1021215/nft-artists-
scams-profit-environment-blockchain/
Orr, D. (2014). The internet has changed everything—And nothing. The
Guardian, accessed 3.3.18. https://www.theguardian.com/technology/
commentisfree/2014/sep/26/internet-changed-everything-nothing-
serious-business
Patrickson, B. (2019). Lightbulb concrete. In Blockchain and web 3.0: Social,
economic, and technological challenges.
Patrickson, B., Johnson, M. P., Mention, A.-L., & Torkkeli, M. (2020). Play-
ful design manifesto for creative Blockchain ecosystems. World Scien-
tific Book Chapters, 431–463.
Potts, B. (2016). 5 characteristics of the digital economy and what they
mean for oil & gas. Digitalist Magazine, accessed 3.8.18. https://
www.digitalistmag.com/digital-economy/2016/06/07/5-characteristics
-of-digital-economy-and-what-they-mean-for-oil-gas-04247790
Radziwill, N. (2018). Blockchain revolution: How the technology behind
bitcoin is changing money, business, and the world. The Quality
Management Journal, 25(1), 64–65.
Ragnedda, M., and Destefanis, G. 2019. Blockchain and web 3.0: Social,
economic, and technological challenges: Routledge.
Rennie, E., Potts, J., & Pochesneva, A. (2019). Blockchain and the creative
industries.
Riddoch, L. (2018). The National. Glasgow, UK. Available at: https://www.
thenational.scot/news/17230209.govanhills-swap-market-scheme-
proves-a-huge-success/ [Accessed 19.2.2019].
Rifkin, J. (2014). The zero marginal cost society: The internet of things,
the collaborative commons, and the eclipse of capitalism. St. Martin's
Press.
Schuelke-Leech, B.-A. (2018). A model for understanding the orders of
magnitude of disruptive technologies. Technological Forecasting and
Social Change, 129, 261–274. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.
2017.09.033
Scottish Government. (2017). Businesses in Scotland 2017 [Online].
Scotland, UK: Scottish Govt. Available: Businesses in Scotland 2017 -
gov.scot [Accessed 5.2.18]
Seebacher, S., & Schüritz, R. (2017). Blockchain technology as an enabler of
service systems: A structured literature review. International Conference
on Exploring Services Science.
Shead, S. (2021). China's bitcoin mining is threatening its climate change
targets, study says. CNBC, accessed 3.4.21. https://www.cnbc.com/
2021/04/08/chinas-bitcoin-mining-is-threatening-its-climate-change-
targets.html
594 PATRICKSON
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KT-gPtK5uHY%26t=25689s
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KT-gPtK5uHY%26t=25689s
http://www.creativescotland.com
https://fstoppers.com/opinion/nfts-are-pyramid-scheme-and-people-are-already-losing-money-554869
https://fstoppers.com/opinion/nfts-are-pyramid-scheme-and-people-are-already-losing-money-554869
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/cz/Documents/financial-services/cz-2018-deloitte-global-blockchain-survey.pdf
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/cz/Documents/financial-services/cz-2018-deloitte-global-blockchain-survey.pdf
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/cz/Documents/financial-services/cz-2018-deloitte-global-blockchain-survey.pdf
https://www.fool.com/investing/2016/12/13/2-must-know-investing-tips-from-clayton-christense.aspx
https://www.fool.com/investing/2016/12/13/2-must-know-investing-tips-from-clayton-christense.aspx
https://hbr.org/2016/04/a-chart-that-shows-which-industries-are-the-most-digital-and-why
https://hbr.org/2016/04/a-chart-that-shows-which-industries-are-the-most-digital-and-why
https://gitcoin.co/blog/introducing-kudos/
https://gitcoin.co/blog/introducing-kudos/
https://doi.org/10.1108/14636681111170185
https://doi.org/10.1108/14636681111170185
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/nearly-half-of-all-2017-icos-have-failed-2018-02-26
https://www.marketwatch.com/story/nearly-half-of-all-2017-icos-have-failed-2018-02-26
http://ledgerinsights.com
https://www.ledgerinsights.com/blockchain-collectible-firm-sorare-raises-50m-for-nft-fantasy-sports/
https://www.ledgerinsights.com/blockchain-collectible-firm-sorare-raises-50m-for-nft-fantasy-sports/
https://www.ledgerinsights.com/blockchain-collectible-firm-sorare-raises-50m-for-nft-fantasy-sports/
http://www.dwamedia.com/en/Blockchain-Creating-a-Second-Internet-for-Marketers
http://www.dwamedia.com/en/Blockchain-Creating-a-Second-Internet-for-Marketers
https://www.theguardian.com/money/2018/mar/17/art-pension-trust-investment-legal-action-artists
https://www.theguardian.com/money/2018/mar/17/art-pension-trust-investment-legal-action-artists
https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/facebook-eases-back-plans-for-libra-digital-currency-h8s6jp2xz
https://www.thetimes.co.uk/article/facebook-eases-back-plans-for-libra-digital-currency-h8s6jp2xz
https://www.forbes.com/sites/timothylee/2013/04/09/bitcoin-is-a-disruptive-technology/?sh=4032b2072956
https://www.forbes.com/sites/timothylee/2013/04/09/bitcoin-is-a-disruptive-technology/?sh=4032b2072956
https://doi.org/10.1111/apps.12080
https://doi.org/10.1111/apps.12080
http://unblockedevents.com
https://unblockedevents.com/2017/07/20/tokenization-interview-don-mosites-swap/
https://unblockedevents.com/2017/07/20/tokenization-interview-don-mosites-swap/
https://www.midiaresearch.com/downloads/the-death-of-the-long-tail-the-superstar-music-economy/
https://www.midiaresearch.com/downloads/the-death-of-the-long-tail-the-superstar-music-economy/
http://technologyreview.com
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/25/1021215/nft-artists-scams-profit-environment-blockchain/
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/25/1021215/nft-artists-scams-profit-environment-blockchain/
https://www.technologyreview.com/2021/03/25/1021215/nft-artists-scams-profit-environment-blockchain/
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/commentisfree/2014/sep/26/internet-changed-everything-nothing-serious-business
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/commentisfree/2014/sep/26/internet-changed-everything-nothing-serious-business
https://www.theguardian.com/technology/commentisfree/2014/sep/26/internet-changed-everything-nothing-serious-business
https://www.digitalistmag.com/digital-economy/2016/06/07/5-characteristics-of-digital-economy-and-what-they-mean-for-oil-gas-04247790
https://www.digitalistmag.com/digital-economy/2016/06/07/5-characteristics-of-digital-economy-and-what-they-mean-for-oil-gas-04247790
https://www.digitalistmag.com/digital-economy/2016/06/07/5-characteristics-of-digital-economy-and-what-they-mean-for-oil-gas-04247790
https://www.thenational.scot/news/17230209.govanhills-swap-market-scheme-proves-a-huge-success/
https://www.thenational.scot/news/17230209.govanhills-swap-market-scheme-proves-a-huge-success/
https://www.thenational.scot/news/17230209.govanhills-swap-market-scheme-proves-a-huge-success/
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2017.09.033
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2017.09.033
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/04/08/chinas-bitcoin-mining-is-threatening-its-climate-change-targets.html
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/04/08/chinas-bitcoin-mining-is-threatening-its-climate-change-targets.html
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/04/08/chinas-bitcoin-mining-is-threatening-its-climate-change-targets.html
Simplilearn. 2021. "Everything You Need to Know About Blockchain
Developer Salaries." simplilearn.com, accessed 29.4.21. https://www.
simplilearn.com/salary-of-blockchain-developer-article
Smith, Sean. 2021. "Bitcoin is going mainstream—What the move by tesla
means for crypto." Forbes.com, accessed 4.4.21. https://www.forbes.
com/sites/seansteinsmith/2021/02/10/bitcoin-is-going-mainstream–
what-the-move-by-tesla-means-for-crypto/?sh=1dc7701c4f56
Tallyn, E., Pschetz, L., Gianni, R., Speed, C., & Elsden, C. (2018). Exploring
machine autonomy and provenance data in coffee consumption: A
field study of Bitbarista. Proceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer
Interaction 2 (CSCW), 170.
Tapscott, D., & Tapscott, A. (2016a). Blockchain revolution: How the tech-
nology behind Bitcoin and Cryptocurrency is changing the world: Portfolio
penguin.
Tapscott, D., & Tapscott, A. (2016b). Blockchain revolution: How the tech-
nology behind Bitcoin is changing money, business, and the world:
Penguin.
Taylor, J. (2010). Google chief: My fears for generation Facebook. The
Independent, accessed 3.5.18. https://www.independent.co.uk/life-
style/gadgets-and-tech/news/google-chief-my-fears-for-generation-
facebook-2055390.html
thealternative.org. 2017. "The People's Bank of Govanhill: inventing a cur-
rency of care." thealternative.org, accessed 3.5.18. https://www.
thealternative.org.uk/dailyalternative/2017/4/17/the-peoples-bank-
of-govanhill
Towse, R. (2020). Creative industries. In Handbook of cultural economics
(Third ed.). Edward Elgar Publishing.
UnblockedEvents. (2018). Chain reaction. Unblocked Events, accessed
3.8.18. https://unblockedevents.com/blog/
Wade, M., Bonnet, D. C. L., & Shan, J. (2020). Lifting the lid on disruption
fever. Journal of Strategy and Management.
Walters, Steve. 2021. "Dfinity (ICP) review: Blockchain based cloud com-
puting." coinbureau.com, accessed 20.4.21. https://www.coinbureau.
com/review/dfinity-icp/
Wang, Y., Han, J. H., & Beynon-Davies, P. (2019). Understanding
Blockchain Technology for Future Supply Chains: A systematic
literature review and research agenda. Supply Chain Management: An
International Journal.
Ward, James. 2017. "Royalty tracks is a platform automating the tracking
of missing roytalties for musicians." startupdaily, accessed 3.8.18.
http://www.startupdaily.net/2017/08/royalty-tracks-missing-
royalties-musicians/
WhiteOps. 2017. "The Bot Baseline Report." ANA (Association of National
Advertisers), accessed 3.8.18. http://www.ana.net/content/show/id/
botfraud-2017
WorldEconomicForum. (2016). Digital Enterpse: Digital transformation of
industries. World Economic Forum, accessed 3.3.18. http://reports.
weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/
files/pages/files/digital-enterprise-narrative-final-january-2016.pdf
AUTHOR BIOGRAPHY
Bronwin Patrickson is a digital design researcher with interests in
creative innovation, humanist interaction design and the environ-
mental humanities. She has a PhD in interactive media from
Macquarie University in Sydney, Australia.
How to cite this article: Patrickson B. What do blockchain
technologies imply for digital creative industries? Creat Innov
Manag. 2021;30:585–595. https://doi.org/10.1111/caim.
12456
PATRICKSON 595
 14678691, 2021, 3, D
ow
nloaded from
 https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/doi/10.1111/caim
.12456 by C
ity U
niversity O
f H
ong K
ong, W
iley O
nline L
ibrary on [15/04/2023]. See the T
erm
s and C
onditions (https://onlinelibrary.w
iley.com
/term
s-and-conditions) on W
iley O
nline L
ibrary for rules of use; O
A
 articles are governed by the applicable C
reative C
om
m
ons L
icense
http://simplilearn.com
https://www.simplilearn.com/salary-of-blockchain-developer-article
https://www.simplilearn.com/salary-of-blockchain-developer-article
http://Forbes.com
https://www.forbes.com/sites/seansteinsmith/2021/02/10/bitcoin-is-going-mainstream--what-the-move-by-tesla-means-for-crypto/?sh=1dc7701c4f56
https://www.forbes.com/sites/seansteinsmith/2021/02/10/bitcoin-is-going-mainstream--what-the-move-by-tesla-means-for-crypto/?sh=1dc7701c4f56
https://www.forbes.com/sites/seansteinsmith/2021/02/10/bitcoin-is-going-mainstream--what-the-move-by-tesla-means-for-crypto/?sh=1dc7701c4f56
https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/google-chief-my-fears-for-generation-facebook-2055390.html
https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/google-chief-my-fears-for-generation-facebook-2055390.html
https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/google-chief-my-fears-for-generation-facebook-2055390.html
https://www.thealternative.org.uk/dailyalternative/2017/4/17/the-peoples-bank-of-govanhill
https://www.thealternative.org.uk/dailyalternative/2017/4/17/the-peoples-bank-of-govanhill
https://www.thealternative.org.uk/dailyalternative/2017/4/17/the-peoples-bank-of-govanhill
https://unblockedevents.com/blog/
http://coinbureau.com
https://www.coinbureau.com/review/dfinity-icp/
https://www.coinbureau.com/review/dfinity-icp/
http://www.startupdaily.net/2017/08/royalty-tracks-missing-royalties-musicians/
http://www.startupdaily.net/2017/08/royalty-tracks-missing-royalties-musicians/
http://www.ana.net/content/show/id/botfraud-2017
http://www.ana.net/content/show/id/botfraud-2017
http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/files/pages/files/digital-enterprise-narrative-final-january-2016.pdf
http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/files/pages/files/digital-enterprise-narrative-final-january-2016.pdf
http://reports.weforum.org/digital-transformation/wp-content/blogs.dir/94/mp/files/pages/files/digital-enterprise-narrative-final-january-2016.pdf
https://doi.org/10.1111/caim.12456
https://doi.org/10.1111/caim.12456
	What do blockchain technologies imply for digital creative industries?
	1  INTRODUCTION
	2  METHODOLOGY
	3  WHAT ARE BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGIES?
	4  BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGIES IN THE DIGITAL CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
	4.1  Intellectual property
	4.1.1  IP: Ownership
	4.1.2  IP: Licencing
	4.2  Shifting values
	4.3  Models for collaborative practice
	4.4  Funding
	5  SUMMARY REVIEW OF EMERGING FEATURES OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY APPLICATIONS WITHIN THE DIGITAL CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
	6  HOW DISRUPTIVE ARE BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGIES, REALLY?
	7  WHAT DOES THIS SUGGEST ABOUT THE LIKELIHOOD OF A BLOCKCHAIN REVOLUTION?
	8  SPECULATING A BLOCKCHAIN REVOLUTION FOR THE DIGITAL CREATIVE INDUSTRIES
	9  CONCLUSION
	ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
	ENDNOTES
	REFERENCES