Blockchain Technologies and Games: A Proper Match?
Blockchain Technologies and Games: A Proper Match?
Alexander Pfeiffer
Comparative Media Studies/Writing
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Massachusetts, USA
alex_pf@mit.edu
Simone Kriglstein
AIT Austrian Institute of Technology
GmbH & University of Vienna,
Faculty of Computer Science
Vienna, Austria
simone.kriglstein@univie.ac.at
Thomas Wernbacher
Department for Arts and Cultural
Studies
Danube-University Krems
Krems, Austria
thomas.wernbacher@donau-
uni.ac.at
ABSTRACT
Not only have virtual currencies in digital games from the pre-
Blockchain era helped to understand digital currency systems, but
the idea that digital objects can have monetary value is a question of
faith that has been expressed primarily through the gaming indus-
try. In the world of business this is now called the ’token economy’.
Blockchain as a technology can do much more, besides payment
processing with cryptocurrencies, utility tokens can be created to
secure in-game currencies and items, gamification systems can be
made more transparent while strengthening the privacy of the play-
ers and even whole game ecosystems can be secured by Blockchain.
However, this is still a very young technology and that there is a
certain technological war of faith as well as a big area of scams
around and with Blockchain-based systems and tokens. In this pa-
per we will present a bird’s eye view, based on results of the expert
interviews, of how Blockchain as technology is connected to the
different aspects of games and play.
CCS CONCEPTS
•Computingmethodologies→Distributed computingmethod-
ologies.
KEYWORDS
Blockchain, digital games, serious games, gamification
ACM Reference Format:
Alexander Pfeiffer, Simone Kriglstein, and ThomasWernbacher. 2020. Blockchain
Technologies and Games: A Proper Match?. In International Conference on
the Foundations of Digital Games (FDG ’20), September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba,
Malta. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.
3402996
1 INTRODUCTION
Modern digital computer games have two areas forwhich Blockchain
technologies could have an area of use: The representation of prop-
erty in the form of digital items and virtual currencies (wealth) and
the trading of these valuables.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta
© 2020 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8807-8/20/09. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402996
The work of Rüdiger et al. [7, 16] show that these digital values
create enormous value in real currency systems through legal (as
well as illegal) channels. Illegal activities in particular need to be
addressed, especially for the protection of players.
In this short paper, we investigate the following research ques-
tions based on an expert interviews:What applications for Blockchain
technologies could exists looking at the “extended” digital games
industry? And what are the strengths, weaknesses and difficulties
of using Blockchain technologies in this sector for the near future?
Since the connection between Blockchain as a future technology
and the gaming sector is not yet widely known, this paper helps
the community to get an overview of the possible applications.
2 RELATEDWORK
Min et al. [10] discussed the Blockchain integration for games and
then categorize existing Blockchain games from the aspects of their
genres and technical platforms.
Chen [3] observed Blockchain technology as an innovative ele-
ment of the virtual items trading platform. He concludes that the
biggest impact of Blockchain technology in the short term is the
redistribution and integration of the game and trading platform
markets.
Aini et al. [1] explore the role of Gamification approaches which
embed Blockchain technologies for the educational sector. Lee et
al.[8] examine the effects of speculative and enjoyable aspects on
users’ playing behavior in Blockchain-based collectible games.
Kraft [6] explores the problem of generating fair randomness in
a deterministic, multi-agent context (for instance, a decentralized
game built on a Blockchain). He states that he existing state-of-the-
art approaches are either susceptible to manipulation if the stakes
are high enough, or they are not generally applicable. Therefore he
introduces a new approach based on game theory.
Komiya et al. [5] examine consensus algorithms as reward sys-
tem. They introduce their approach “Proof-of-Achievement (PoA)”
which is an algorithm optimized for Blockchain games, focusing
on the number of tasks achieved in the game. The aim of using the
PoA algorithm is to increase the motivation for playing Blockchain
games.
Similar to Komiya, Yuen et al. [21] also perceive consensus algo-
rithms like Proof of Work “PoW” as a bottleneck for games. There
proposal is called “Proof-of-Play” with a focus on P2P Games.
Cai et al. [2] developed two different prototypes to research the
aspect of multi-chain as well as multi-game approaches with the
aim to create an interoperable Blockchain gaming framework.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402996
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402996
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402996
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3402942.3402996&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2020-09-17
FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta Pfeiffer et al.
3 METHODOLOGY
The method chosen to answer those questions was the problem-
centered interview following Witzel [20], which allows a certain
freedom in the conversation despite a theory-based formulation
of the questions. The answers to the questions were evaluated
using the approach of qualitative content analysis according to
Mayring [9]. 23 experts from various disciplines (including game
designers, game publishers, game researchers, game developers,
economists, technology researchers, journalists) were interviewed.
The interviews are part of a larger research project on the topic of
‘approaching the ludic society’ [11]. For this short paper, the ques-
tion of the link between Blockchain technologies and gaming was
re-evaluated and specific questions were sent to some interviewees
by e-mail regarding changes in the original opinion from 2018 and
the state of affairs at the end of 2019.
4 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
In the following we will shortly discuss our findings of the qual-
itative content analysis regarding game-related areas that were
associated with Blockchain technologies.
4.1 Collectibles (Collection Games)
Collecting in its purest form is not to be seen as a game, unless the
collector himself perceives it as a game. Collecting - as mechanic - is
however very common within games and digital games. Collectable
items range from things that are in plentiful supply, which usually
only need to be collected to complete a quest or to gain XP, up
to things that are of value to oneself and others. This value can
simply be nostalgic, or it can actually be expressed in monetary
terms. For both aspects it is important to have the feeling to own
the item. Although this feeling is a subjective one in current digital
games, it is objectively not true, because the digital items are always
owned by the game manufacturer and are part of the game code,
which is stored on the central server of the manufacturer. If the
item really has a monetary value, one should not forget the fact that
the manufacturer can at any time manipulate the type of item, the
quantity of the item, the distribution of the item etc. at the push of
a button, and can even simply take the item away from the player.
Important features for collectors such as protection against forgery,
non-tampering etc. are therefore not given in most current digital
games, where collecting is an essential mechanics, as well as in
pure digital collecting games.
An excellent example of a successful collecting game based on
Blockchain technologies (in this case the Blockchain Ethereum,
Code available on Git-Hub) is Cryptokitties. Cryptokitties have
already been exchangedmillions of times and individual special cats
have been traded in the six-figure dollar range. Another specialty
is The KittyVerse, these are games and applications where you
can use your own cats. Applications of The KittyVerse are not only
developed by the Cryptokitties producer but also by third developer
studies and this shows the special potential of virtual objects/assets
on Blockchain basis. The possession is with the player and the asset
can be used for other games or applications. Ideally, it should also
be easy for the user to operate a Blockchain node, then ownership
is guaranteed because you are also a part of the respective ledger.
Another example worth to mention is CrypticLegends (on the
Ethereum Blockchain). Currently, a hero simulator is being devel-
oped based on the idea that the game characters can be used in
many different game genres that take place in the CrypticLegends
universe. There are also no limits to the imagination for cross-over
ideas. CrypticLegends is planning, for example, that the possession
of a certain hero or item in a game from another manufacturer will
unlock an item or function. For instance, a skin.
Also mentioned in the interviews was Tarasca DOA , a card game
in a fantasy world which stands out especially by the beautiful
drawings of the playing cards. Since January 2020 the game can be
tested in a settingwhere 8 people are sitting around a virtual gaming
table. This game uses the Ardor Blockchain (Ignis Childchain).
In fact, there are many Blockchain based collection games in
development, besides cloning the original Cryptokitties idea, or
more creative approaches like the described CrypticLegends or
Tarasca DOA, there are also collection games specifically designed
for the adult market.
4.2 Online Role Playing Games
Popularmassivelymultiplayer online role-playing games (MMORPGs)
have a color structure that shows the value of items. This looks like
the following in World of Warcraft: Grey is used to color useless
items, white is used for ingredients with little value - but useful for
making items or potions, green is used for items with less magic
(often quest items or items used to disenchant them), purple is used
for epic items, and orange is used for items that are legendary and
almost unique. Players are familiar with this system and can esti-
mate the value of items by the color combined with the required
LVL of the character the item is intended for. World of Warcraft
and Diablo, specifically, have introduced another mechanism, the
distinction between soulbound and non-soulbound items. For ex-
ample, when you complete a quest or use an item for the first time,
it becomes attached to your character and cannot be exchanged.
So why would a Blockchain component be added to an obviously
working system that is well known to players worldwide? Why
should Blockchain be considered for future developments? And
what could a token structure for an MMORG look like?
There are many reasons, the three most mentioned are to restrict
game crime, enable a peer2peer trade where the publisher receives
commissions and use items (like armor or weapons) cross-game
worlds. Regarding Game Crime: In practice, if an account is stolen
and the items are sold, they will be restored to their original owners.
People who bought the stolen item will also have a copy of the item.
This can lead to problems with the economy of a server, mainly
with high level epic items, but especially with legendary items.
The current system can also encourage people to steal items them-
selves by using a second account and simulate a hack. The second
possible positive aspect is that the black market in goods can also
be restricted. Nevertheless, players will be offered the possibility
to trade items for more than in-game currency. Theoretically any
combination of in-game currency, items and FIAT money or even
cryptocurrencies would be possible. Players are on the safe side not
to violate any of the terms and conditions and the manufacturer
may charge a commission per transaction. This gives the manufac-
turer an overview of what is being traded and is part of the official
Blockchain Technologies and Games: A Proper Match? FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta
business model and it is therefore a monetization method. The third
point discussed is the possibility of using items in different games.
So, a player could use the same favorite sword to defeat monsters
in WoW and Diablo.
To come back to colors: Grey and white items would be sim-
ple database entries, green items (i.e. items that were worth little)
could be tokens that can be reproduced - i.e. items where the game
publisher can create more tokens of the same kind with the same
basic asset ID. Violet (epic) items would be non-reproducible to-
kens and strictly limited. And orange (legendary) items would be
singleton (unique) tokens, each token with its own asset ID and
non-reproducible. All operations that are executed with the items
via game actions and that are worth logging can be executed via
(Lightweight) Smart Contracts. For example, a sword with the value
color green is disenchanted. This generates several database en-
tries of ingredients (in white color) that are assigned to the player
account and the token representing the sword itself is sent to a
Blockchain address where no private key exists, it is actually taken
out of the game. (Lightweight) Smart Contracts are also able to han-
dle processes known from League of Legends, such as assembling
key fragments into a key that opens a chest, you get a reward, you
get a piece of a reward, and so on.
A very interesting approach in regard to player date is an exper-
imental game named Rhythm Dungeon. This game is a Blockchain-
based Music Roguelike Game [19] where player data is stored on
Blockchain, thus creating an individual profile for each game with
its strengths and weaknesses, as well as the possibility to use the
character in different games.
4.3 In-Game Currencies
The procedure for in-game currency would be similar to that for to-
kens, which stand for green items (see above). Most recommendable,
according to the interviews, would be reproducable tokens. Non-
reproduceable tokens only make sense if the amount of money in a
game is to be limited (for example for reasons of game mechanics).
The advantages would be that tokens can be used in several games.
For example, games like Clash of Clans and Clash Royale could
share the same tokens, and the player could spend them here or
there. If they are not the same tokens, (lightweight) Smart Contracts
can ensure that they are exchanged according to the specific FIAT
value of the respective token. Another option would be to allow a
player to sell to players (again, so that the manufacturer receives a
commission), or (more likely) to allow tokens to be returned under
certain conditions (for a handling fee).
However, the tokens behind the in-game currency should follow
the concept of fixed-price tradable utility tokens. What happens
when the in-game currency is priced according to supply and de-
mand and traded on cryptocurrencies exchanges is best illustrated
by the example Beyond the Void. First a hyped game, the extreme
volatility of the in-game currency to FIAT currency completely
destroyed the game mechanics and the game is no longer playable.
The token representing the in-game currency (Nexium) is not traded
on any stock exchange anymore due to the low volume.
One of the most ambitious projects at the moment is called Light-
nite. Lightnite is a Fortnite like game that uses directly Bitcoin, or
better its fractions Satoshis, as in-game currency for micropay-
ments. This is possible because of the 2nd layer solution upon
Bitcoin called the lightning network, which can handle transac-
tion basically in real time. This approach is remarkable because it
basically introduces Bitcoin as In-Game currency.
4.4 Gamification
A new trend has emerged in gamification over the last few years
and there is a great desire among players to find objectivity, trans-
parency (of the game mechanics) and protection of their privacy
in combination with successful narration [12]. The integration of
Blockchain technologies in a gamification environment can meet
these desires, the interviewees agree. The core elements of gam-
ification (points, badges and achievements) can be mapped on a
Blockchain basis and their distribution can be registered. This can
be done in such a way that the proof of a reward is secured, but still
the privacy of the player is protected. The community of players
can be sure that no fake-points are distributed and that all actions
have been taken correctly.
The biggest advantage, however, is the handling of the prizes or
perks you get by using a gamification as a player. This way, different
points or even badges can serve to get a prize (as you already know
it now), but through a token economy, the redemption process, the
payment and the security that no unright vouchers are redeemed
can be ensured. This is a big advantage for all parties involved, the
players, the game provider and all his partners.
4.5 Serious Games for Learning & Assessment
Blockchain technologies can be used to store learning progress,
grades or certificates (cf. [4]). This is of course also possible directly
from digital games, which not only teach the content but also save
exam results. Thomas et al. [18] and Pfeiffer et al. [13, 14] describe
the developed of a serious game prototype called “Gallery-Defender”
which is a proof of concept that demonstrates how serious games
can involve Blockchain technologies in the near future.
4.6 E-Sport
The existing market for e-sports and betting (completely regardless
of Blockchain) is shown by Sweeney et al. [17]. The basic willing-
ness to bet on e-sports was also part of a study by Pfeiffer and
Wochenalt [15]. In the e-sport sector, two projects were mentioned
in the interviews. Herocoin (from Austria) and FirstBlood (from the
USA). Herocoin was the first Initial Coin Offering (ICO) in Austria
and FirstBlood one of the first ICOs in the States. Both products are
now in their third year and have had their ups and downs. Hero-
coin recently introduced the possibility to place bets directly with
Ethereum in addition to their own token. Basically, both products
are about initiating competitions against other players and winning
tokens. There is also the possibility to play in tournaments, where
prizes (mostly digital items like skins for games) are available. Fur-
thermore, the possibility of tokenizing a complete tournament was
mentioned in the interviews. The participants as well as the spon-
sors have to buy a specific tournament token from the organizers.
These tokens are then distributed in the tournament and can be
exchanged by the participants for non-cash prizes. The tournament
FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta Pfeiffer et al.
organizer keeps the amount of money that the event has cost in
the organization plus an overhead.
4.7 Bets, Gambling & iGaming
The gambling and sports betting industry has also discovered
Blockchain technologies for themselves. Use cases here include
accepting cryptocurrencies as a means of payment, implementing
loyalty programs on Blockchain tokens or verifying slot machines
so that players and local operators can be sure that the machine is
an original machine and is logged into the provider’s network. In
the betting sector the platform AUGUR is also worth mentioning,
here you can create bets regarding the outcome of future events, or
simply place existing betting proposals.
4.8 Building Game Eco-Systems on Blockchain
Pfeiffer andWernbacher have created a concept how games that are
no longer hosted but are loved by the community can be brought
back to life in a non-/low profit version1. In this case, those play-
ers who help to make the game available (provide the EXE file
for download, replay competition games to prevent cheating) get
tokens, which players who just want to play have to buy from the
decentralized system (Smart Contract). The clue is that the token
pool on the network is in turn filled by the tokens that the game
operators have received. Operators either receive a share of the
money from the token sale, or they can also use the tokens to play
the game or to buy in-game items like skins. This way a system can
be created which is completely by players for players. The original
publisher can still participate in the system with a server, which
ensures that there is always a server online and thereby assists the
community.
5 CONCLUSION & OUTLOOK
Blockchain technologies undoubtedly offer enormous potential for
the gaming and gamification sector, both for producers and players.
However, it is still a long process before established game compa-
nies abandon their established processes and start implementing
Blockchain technologies. Although Blockchain technologies have
been in use for over 10 years, they are, still at an early stage and it
is difficult for companies to distinguish which network to rely on.
Furthermore, the social acceptance is considered rather low and
the spread of Blockchain tokens is not yet mainstream.
There are also many questions to be answered such as: Do the
players themselves have to possess ‘Tradeable network mainte-
nance utility tokens’ to the tokens for pay transaction fees to the
network for the gaming-related tokens. Or should technical pos-
sibilities such as ‘bundling’ at Ardor or specific ‘smart contracts’
for this process on Ethereum be used to take over the fees for the
players as publisher. If so, how should this payment be passed
on to the customers? How to deal with the tightened know-your-
customer (KYC) and anti-money laundering (AML) regulations that
an implementation of Blockchain technologies (if the tokens are
freely-tradable) requires. Which information in a gaming environ-
ment is actually so valuable in the end that it should be stored
using Blockchain technologies? And should we initially focus on
Private Blockchains, Consortium Blockchains, Public Blockchains
1http://www.frogvienna.at/alexander-pfeiffer-2018/ Accessed: July, 2020
or a reasonable combination of these possibilities? However, one
thing is certain: exciting years in research and development await
us!
REFERENCES
[1] Qurotul Aini, Untung Rahardja, and Alfiah Khoirunisa. [n.d.]. Blockchain Tech-
nology into Gamification on Education. IJCCS (Indonesian Journal of Computing
and Cybernetics Systems) 14, 2 ([n. d.]).
[2] Wei Cai and Xiao Wu. 2019. Demo Abstract: An Interoperable Avatar Framework
Across Multiple Games and Blockchains. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on
Computer Communications Workshops. 967–968.
[3] Jiun-Ting Chen. 2019. Blockchain and the Feature of Game Development. In
Proceedings of the International Conference on Frontier Computing. Springer, 1797–
1802.
[4] Alexander Grech and Anthony F. Camilleri. 2017. Blockchain in Education. Publi-
cations Office of the European Union, Luxembourg.
[5] Kosuke Komiya and Tatsuo Nakajima. 2019. Increasing Motivation for Playing
Blockchain Games Using Proof-of-Achievement Algorithm. In HCI in Games,
Xiaowen Fang (Ed.). Springer International Publishing, Cham, 125–140.
[6] Daniel Kraft. 2019. Game-Theoretic Randomness for Blockchain Games. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1901.06285 (2019).
[7] Cindy Krebs and Thomas-Gabriel Rüdiger. 2010. Gamecrime und Metacrime
- Strafrechtlich relevante Handlungen im Zusammenhang mit virtuellen Welten.
Verlag für Polizeiwissenschaft.
[8] Jaehwan Lee, Byungjoon Yoo, andMoonkyoung Jang. 2019. Is a Blockchain-Based
Game a Game for Fun, or Is It a Tool for Speculation? An Empirical Analysis
of Player Behavior in Crypokitties. In The Ecosystem of e-Business: Technologies,
Stakeholders, and Connections, Jennifer J. Xu, Bin Zhu, Xiao Liu, Michael J. Shaw,
Han Zhang, and Ming Fan (Eds.). Springer International Publishing, 141–148.
[9] Philipp Mayring. 2010. Qualitative Inhaltsanalyse. VS Verlag für Sozialwis-
senschaften, 601–613.
[10] Tian Min, Hanyi Wang, Yaoze Guo, and Wei Cai. 2019. Blockchain Games: A
Survey. In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Games (CoG). IEEE.
[11] Alexander Pfeiffer. 2019. Doktorat Alexander Pfeiffer: Auf dem Weg zur ludischen
Gesellschaft. Ph.D. Dissertation. https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.21808.30725
[12] Alexander Pfeiffer. 2020. Doctorate Alexander Pfeiffer: Approaching a ludic
society; Summary of key findings and definitions. https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.
2.30395.98081
[13] Alexander Pfeiffer and Nikolaus Koenig. 2019. Blockchain Technologies and
Their Impact on Game-Based Education and Learning Assessment. In Savegame.
Springer, 55–67.
[14] Alexander Pfeiffer, Nikolaus Koenig, Thomas Wernbacher, and Lior Yaffe. 2018.
Learning-Record Store on Blockchain: A Glimpse Into the Future. In Proceedings
of the 2018 Connected Learning Summit. Carnegie Mellon University: ETC Press.
[15] Alexander Pfeiffer and Andreas Wochenalt. 2010. eSport – eine Analyse von
kompetitiven digitalen Spielen. Novum Eco.
[16] Thomas-Gabriel Rüdiger and Alexander Pfeiffer. 2015. Game! Crime? Verlag für
Polizeiwissenschaft.
[17] Kevin Sweeney, MH Tuttle, and M Douglas Berg. 2019. Esports Gambling: Market
Structure and Biases. Games and Culture (2019).
[18] André Thomas, Nikolaus Koenig, Trevor Higgins, Michael Black, Alexander
Pfeiffer, Lloyd Donelan, Brenton Lenzen, Nick Muniz, Kishan Patel, Aksel Taylan,
and Thomas Wernbacher. 2019. From learning to assessment, how to utilize
Blockchain technologies in gaming environments to secure learning outcomes
and test results. MCAST Journal of Applied Research & Practice 3, 1 (2019), 172.
[19] Tengfei Wang, Shuyi Zhang, Xiao Wu, and Wei Cai. 2019. Rhythm dungeon: a
blockchain-based music roguelike game. In Proceedings of the 14th International
Conference on the Foundations of Digital Games. 1–3.
[20] Andreas Witzel. 1985. Das problemzentrierte Interview. In Qualitative Forschung
in der Psychologie : Grundfragen, Verfahrensweisen, Anwendungsfelder, Gerd Jütte-
mann (Ed.). Beltz, Weinheim, 227–255.
[21] Ho Yin Yuen, Feijie Wu, Wei Cai, Henry C.B. Chan, Qiao Yan, and Victor C.M.
Leung. 2019. Proof-of-Play: A Novel Consensus Model for Blockchain-Based
Peer-to-Peer Gaming System. In Proceedings of the 2019 ACM International Sym-
posium on Blockchain and Secure Critical Infrastructure (BSCI ’19). Association for
Computing Machinery, 19–28.
http://www.frogvienna.at/alexander-pfeiffer-2018/
https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.21808.30725
https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.30395.98081
https://doi.org/10.13140/RG.2.2.30395.98081
	Abstract
	1 Introduction
	2 Related Work
	3 Methodology
	4 Results and Discussion
	4.1 Collectibles (Collection Games)
	4.2 Online Role Playing Games
	4.3 In-Game Currencies
	4.4 Gamification
	4.5 Serious Games for Learning & Assessment
	4.6 E-Sport
	4.7 Bets, Gambling & iGaming
	4.8 Building Game Eco-Systems on Blockchain
	5 Conclusion & Outlook
	References