Future Research Directions
Chapter 6
Future Research Directions
From Chaps. 2–5, we have shown the existing research status of machine learning
driven privacy preservation in IoTs, especially focus on three leading directions using
GAN, federated learning, and reinforcement learning. Several advanced technolo-
gies and theories are also integrated, for example, differential privacy, game theory,
blockchain, etc. Nevertheless, there are still plenty of significant and prospective
issues worthy investigating. The popularization of blockchain, digital twin, and arti-
ficial intelligence offers a mass of opportunities for researches on machine learning
driven privacy preservation in IoTs, but meanwhile they raise new challenges such
as unsatisfying data utility and limited communication and computing resources.
In addition, there are various other research topics that desiderata consideration in
machine learning driven privacy preservation in IoTs. To pave the way for read-
ers and forthcoming researchers, we outline several potentially promising research
directions that may be worthy of future efforts.
6.1 Trade-Off Optimization in IoTs
Trade-off between privacy protection and data utility has always been one of the
primary targets in privacy preservation field. The reason is as explained above. In
privacy preservation domain, data curators will publish sanitized data to all data
requestors by conducting irreversible data distortion in most cases. In this case, data
utility should be well-considered for the value of the sanitized data.
However, most existing research barely considers limited computing and commu-
nication resources, which should be taken into account in IoT scenarios. That makes
the trade-off optimization even more complicated. Currently, there are two potential
solutions, including both a static model and a dynamic model.
For the static solution, it requires that the designer is experienced in this domain
and thereby can identify the issues in each procedure. By deeply understanding such
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2022
Y. Qu et al., Privacy Preservation in IoT: Machine Learning Approaches,
SpringerBriefs in Computer Science, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-1797-4_6
111
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-19-1797-4_6&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-1797-4_6
112 6 Future Research Directions
a system, an expert may be able to design a novel loss function that can help improve
the performance of the machine learning based privacy preservation models and
achieve fast convergence under the constrain of limited computing and communi-
cation resources. Although the design of a loss function can improve the overall
performance, but it is usually case-by-case and can hardly be generalized.
A dynamic solution is usually in a form of a iterated algorithm, for instance, a
machine learning algorithm or a game theory based model. The optimization process
can be formulated as aMarkov Decision Process. To achieve this, all parties’ actions,
states, and correspondingpayoff functions should bemodelled. In this case, the payoff
function can be modelled as the trade-off between privacy protection, data utility,
and resource limitations. The Markov Decision Process can be solved using various
ways, such as Q-learning algorithm or state-action-reward-state-action (SARSA)
algorithm. However, the adoption of dynamic solutionsmay bring about extra burden
on computing and communication resources. Therefore, the efficiency improvement
is also worth further investigating.
6.2 Privacy Preservation in Digital Twined IoTs
Digital twin is a fast emerging technology in recent years. Originated from man-
ufacture industries, digital twin has proved its effectiveness when designing and
improving specific physical objects and their interactions. This create opportunities
to IoTs as well. In an IoT network, there are various IoT devices such as sensors,
cameras, edge devices, vehicles, etc. It is possible to create digital twins for IoT
devices in a cloud server to simulate an IoT environment, which has been evidenced
in a mass of existing research.
The establishment of digital twined IoT enables the optimization of execution
policies of IoT devices, communication efficiency, and a lot more. However, privacy
issues emerge since local data of IoT devices should be uploaded to the digital twin.
Besides, the digital twins are always located in a server with high computing, com-
munication, and storage devices, such as a cloud server. This poses further challenges
to privacy protection due to the existence of multiple attacks like man-in-the-middle
attacks.
To preserve the privacy in this case, it is possible to perform federated meta learn-
ing. Meta-learning, or learning to learn, is the science of systematically observing
how different machine learning approaches perform on a wide range of learning
tasks, and then learning from this experience, or meta-data, to learn new tasks much
faster than otherwise possible. As is known to all, federated learning is able to achieve
privacy-preserving distributedmachine learning by exchanging themodel parameters
or gradients of a commonly-maintained model. By storing local data locally, privacy
protection is achieved. However, federated learning meets several bottlenecks, of
which a primary challenge is to improve the model performance. Therefore, meta
learning can be accommodated in federated learning such that the performance and
6.2 Privacy Preservation in Digital Twined IoTs 113
privacy protection can be balanced. Similar the other IoT scenarios, the adoption of
machine learningmodels result in the consumption of computing and communication
resources, which should be considered while establishing such a model.
6.3 Personalized Consensus and Incentive Mechanisms
for Blockchain-Enabled Federated Learning in IoTs
6.4 Privacy-Preserving Federated Learning in IoTs
Consensus algorithm for B-FL: The consensus algorithm is the core of any
blockchain system, and an ideal consensus algorithm should be computationally
efficient and highly secure. PoW and PoS are the two most widely used consen-
sus algorithms but the former is extremely inefficient and costly due to the use of
a nonce-finding mechanism, while the later will weaken the decentralization prop-
erty of blockchain as the miners with a huge number of stakes can dominate the
blockchain system. To overcome these drawbacks, we propose to directly use the B-
FLmission as a consensus proof, without running a separate consensus proof process
nor utilising the miners’ stakes as a consensus proof.
Based on the proposed B-FL process above, we will develop the new consen-
sus algorithm in the following way. In Phase 1, each participating miner uses their
local data to train a local model. Once completing the local model training, they will
broadcast the local model parameters to other participating miners. When a prede-
fined percentage of miners have completed their local model training or a predefined
time length is reached, Phase 1 ends. All theminers who have successfully completed
their work are eligible for participating in Phase 2 and those miners who did not com-
plete Phase 1 will be excluded from being involved in the next phase. In Phase 2,
each miner eligible for this phase will execute a smart contract containing a model
verification algorithm and amodel selection algorithm to verify the authenticity of all
local models and select those authentic local models suitable for aggregation. Phase
2 will finish once a predefined percentage of miners have completed their work or a
predefined time length is reached. Theminers whose local models have been selected
for aggregation will proceed to Phase 3 and those whose local models are classified
as falsified or unsuitable for aggregation will be excluded from participating in the
next phase. In Phase 3, eachminer eligible for this phase will execute a smart contract
containing a model aggregation algorithm to aggregate the selected local models to
generate their global model. Then the miner will store the generated global model
parameters into a candidate block and broadcast it to the blockchain system. When
a predefined percentage of miners have completed their work or a predefined time
length is reached, each miner eligible for this phase will vote for a (different) global
model whose model parameters are the closest to their own. If two or more models
have the same closeness to their own, the one that was generated the earliest will
be chosen. After a predefined time period, the global model receiving the highest
114 6 Future Research Directions
number of votes is elected as the final global model in that B-FL round. The associ-
ated miner is recognised as the winning miner of that B-FL round and the associated
candidate block is formally appended on the blockchain system, which ends the con-
sensus process. As an inherent part of the consensus algorithm development, we will
analyse the robustness of the proposed consensus algorithm against attacks and study
how the algorithmic parameters, such as those predefined percentages of miners and
predefined time lengths, will affect its performance. Based on the findings, we will
refine the proposed consensus algorithm accordingly.
Incentive algorithm for B-FL: The ultimate objective of B-FL is to motivate miners
to actively participate in theB-FLprocess to collectively produce high-qualitymodels
within the shortest possible timeframe. The incentive mechanisms used in traditional
blockchain systems are not suitable for B-FL as they only award the winning miner.
Intuitively, it is better to devise a personalized incentive algorithm to award all the
miners who have made valuable contributions to B-FL. The proposed awarding
principles are as follows. Firstly, in each B-FL round, every miner whose local
model was selected for aggregation will be awarded and the award amount depends
on the quality of the model (the higher quality the better) and the time spending on
training the model (the shorter time the better). This awarding principle is reasonable
as producing a high-quality local model in a short timeframe requires the miner
to use more high-quality data and computing power to train their local model in
Phase 1 and use more computing power to perform local model verification and
selection in Phase 2. Secondly, the miners who participated in the whole Phase 3 to
determine the final global model and the winning miner will receive an additional
award. Thirdly, the winning miner will receive a further top-up award. In addition to
these awarding principles, certain constraints should be imposed to avoid the over-
fitting issue when determining the award amount since over-fitting will weaken the
extensiveness to diverse data from different miners. Based on the proposed awarding
principles and constraints, an award mapping algorithm will be proposed to map the
miners’ contributions to the actual rewards to be allocated. We will also investigate
how to optimize the award mapping algorithm by considering its impact on model
accuracy, model training convergence speed, miner participation rate, etc.
6.5 Federated Generative Adversarial Network in IoTs
In this section, we discuss our plan on federated generative adversarial network for
IoT applications in practice.
The basic idea is that a central server, usually a cloud server or a edge server,
servers as the Discriminator. At the same time, each IoT end device works as a
Generator and generates synthetic data using its local data. The synthetic data is then
uploaded to the central server for discrimination. As the central server has a full
vision of all generated synthetic data, it can perform discrimination in a powerful
way. Then all the local Generators game with a central Discriminator iteratively until
convergence.
6.5 Federated Generative Adversarial Network in IoTs 115
The difficult part of this model includes the high communication overhead since
the synthetic data should be uploaded to the central server. Besides, the synthetic
data may leak privacy information during transmission.
Therefore, another potential solutions is that each IoT device trains a GANmodel
locally and send the GANmodel parameters to a central server for aggregation. This
can significantly reduce the communication overhead but requires certain degree of
computation resources of IoT devices.
Therefore, there should be a trade-off between these two methods. That is also
part of our research plan in the future.
	6 Future Research Directions
	6.1 Trade-Off Optimization in IoTs
	6.2 Privacy Preservation in Digital Twined IoTs
	6.3 Personalized Consensus and Incentive Mechanisms  for Blockchain-Enabled Federated Learning in IoTs
	6.4 Privacy-Preserving Federated Learning in IoTs
	6.5 Federated Generative Adversarial Network in IoTs