The Potential Application Of NFT in the Publishing Industry; Opportunities and Challenges
979-8-3503-2024-4/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 
The Potential Application Of NFT in the Publishing 
Industry; Opportunities and Challenges 
 
 
Maha Rahrouh 
College of Business 
Al Ain University 
Al Ain, UAE 
maha.rahrouh@aau.ac.ae 
 
Walid Alayash 
College of information Technology 
International University for  Science and 
Techonology 
Ghabagheb-Daraa, Syria 
walidaiyash2005@gmail.com 
Mamdouh Ghanem 
Business Administration College 
Ph.d. holder 
Dubai, UAE 
mamdouh-71@hotmail.com 
 
Abstract— In the past few years, the world has witnessed a 
massive development in the digital world, which has led to the 
emergence of a new advanced trading technology called Non-
Fungible Tokens (NFTs) as digital crypto assets using 
blockchain technology. This technology has expanded and 
developed by leaps and bounds in various aspects of the digital 
world, including virtual reality and cryptocurrency. This rapid 
development has created a marketplace that allows users to 
create, buy and sell their own unique NFT digital assets quickly 
and easily compared to the real world while maintaining 
ownership rights. The huge trading market of NFTs and their 
remarkable technical advantages have attracted Attention and 
concerns of musicians, artists, collectors and gamers to such an 
extent that it has sparked interest in studying the applicability 
of NFT technology in various sectors of the real world. This 
research came to study the applicability of non-fungible tokens 
(NFTs) and their opportunities and challenges in the publishing 
industry, taking into consideration all its stakeholders, in order 
to open doors for this industry, and maybe to other potential 
non-digital (real) industries to benefit from it. 
Keywords—Non-Fungible Tokens, NFT, cryptographic assets, 
unique digital asset, blockchain technology, NFT market, 
publishing industry, digital wallet 
I.   INTRODUCTION 
 Recently, we have begun to witness an unprecedented 
development in the work environment in the digital world, 
which has led to the creation of advanced digital technologies 
that have contributed to simulating life and work in the real 
world. One such recent technology is the non-fungible tokens 
(NFTs), which rely on technological mechanisms and tools 
such as blockchain, cryptocurrencies, and digital wallets. 
Non-fungible tokens are digital assets that are encrypted and 
stored on the blockchain to give them innovative and unique 
identification tokens and metadata in order to verify their 
uniqueness and ownership and allow them to be traded in the 
digital marketplace. It is a fact that the NFT market has 
exploded with the volume and value of huge trading 
transactions in the market for games, artwork, collectibles, 
etc., which, as some see it, is a temporary or artificial bubble 
made to attract the attention of users and investors [1, 2, 3], 
and others are betting on its collapse [4]. But what caught our 
interest in doing this research is the importance of this new 
technology (NFT) and potential to be linked to real assets – as 
mentioned in [5], NFTs are records can connect digital tokens 
to tangible (physical) assets.  
This research attempts to investigate the potential 
applications of NFTs in industries/markets that require the use 
of a combination of both the real world and the digital world, 
the use of augmented reality (AR)) [5].  This is to guarantee 
fast and smooth transactions, in which property rights are 
preserved and profits flow to its owners with fairness and as 
agreed. Therefore, this research study the extent to which the 
NFTs technology can be applied in the publishing process by 
creating a model presents the process in operational charts that 
explain how NFTs can be employed simply and accurately. 
The proposed model presents the main components and steps 
required for applying NFTs in the publishing process, starting 
from receiving the book (i.e. E-book) from the author, through 
storing the book (or its chapters) digitally in decentralized 
storages, creating its/their-in case of separate chapters- unique 
NFTs and storing them in the Blockchain until it reaches the 
buyer (the ultimate beneficiary). We highlight the pros and 
cons of the potential application of NFTs in a publishing house 
business and the opportunities and challenges that may be 
encountered during the process. 
II.   RESEARCH IMPORTANCE 
Since digital technologies began to penetrate into the real 
life of organizations and individuals, it has been necessary to 
study these technologies and their impact on the performance 
of production and service sectors.  
This research came to highlight NFTs as a potentially 
useful tool to use in facilitating and simplifying the work of 
the publishing industry and enhancing its performance while 
preserving the interests of all stakeholders (parties) in the 
publishing process, including authors/writers, publishing 
houses, and buyers (such as wholesalers, retailers, or end 
users). This paper presents a proposed model for the 
application and use of NFT techniques in the publishing 
process. We expect this model to simplify and enhance the 
publishing process, and effectively maintain legal rights, 
including property rights, for all stakeholders.  
This paper also attempts to explore opportunities for using 
NFTs to advance the work and performance of publishers. 
Finally, since the use of NFTs in this industry is still the 
subject of controversy and debate between proponents and 
opponents, this paper looks at the main challenges facing the 
publishing industry when using NFTs in its business and 
finally comes up with some recommendations for developing 
and ensuring the publishing process. 
III.   RESEARCH PROBLEM 
The main objective of this research is to explore the 
applicability of NFT technology in the work of a publishing 
houses and its ability to enhance the performance of the 
20
22
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l A
ra
b 
Co
nf
er
en
ce
 o
n 
In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
 (A
CI
T)
 |
 9
79
-8
-3
50
3-
20
24
-4
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
AC
IT
57
18
2.
20
22
.9
99
41
59
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
publishing industry and ensure that its transactions are carried 
out (established) accurately, quickly and smoothly, while 
ensuring property rights and the flow of profits to its 
beneficiaries among the various stakeholders. Hence, this 
research attempts to answer the following questions. 
1. Can NFTs technology be applied in the publishing 
process, and how? 
2. How can NFTs improve and enhance the performance 
of publishing houses? 
3. What are the opportunities to use NFTs to develop the 
publishing industry process to keep pace with the evolution of 
the digital world? In other words, to what extent can the 
application of NFTs ensure that publishing transactions are 
established accurately, quickly and smoothly, while ensuring 
property rights and fairness in the flow of profits to their 
beneficiaries among the various stakeholders? 
4. What are the main challenges facing the application of 
NFTs in the publishing industry? 
IV.   LITERATURE REVIEW 
NFT technology is a technical method to enhance the 
relationship between blockchain and mixed reality 
technologies that can find varied application in our physical 
world [5]. NFT uses Blockchain technology to obtain proof of 
ownership of the item it is associated with [6]. So, NFTs are 
seen as “smart contracts” that allow instant payments with 
minimal transaction fees [7]. Reference [1] defined NFT as a 
“blockchain-recorded right to a digital asset”.  
Some, such as [1] have considered the NFT marketplace 
to be one of the greatest notable public successes of 
blockchain technology.  According to [8], NFTs positively 
affect both the digital economy and the real economy, and play 
a role in changing consumer behavior. Furthermore, reference 
[9] claimed that this emerging new technology (NFT) has 
helped facilitate the employment of evidence-based practice 
and thus support decision-making. However, reference [10] 
concluded that the NFT markets still immature and ineffective 
when exploring the fourteen largest NFT markets from June 
2017 to May 2021, in terms of the number of NFT sales, NFT 
trading volume in US dollars, and a number of unique NFT 
portfolios traded on the blockchain. Fewer NFT transactions 
of higher commercial value were found in 2021 compared to 
previous years of the study period [10]. Hence, various parties, 
especially researchers, have been interested in studying this 
technology (NFT) further and investigate the possibility of 
employing it in different industries and fields of real life, as 
we do in this research.  
Although, the first NFT was created in 2014, by Kevin 
McCoy and Anil Dash [11, 6], the NFT market has witnessed 
its exponential growth during the period of 2017, upon the 
success of the “CryptoKitties” online game [12], up to 2021, 
during which the market volume of NFTs ranged from $12 
billion to over $26 billion in 2021 [13]. However, the NFT 
market for active traders has dropped from $1 million to 
around $490,000 in the first quarter of 2022, which has been 
seen by [8] as a "not good" signal and  attributed it to the 
"lacking new and retained an interest in digital assets". 
However, According to the statistics revealed in August 16, 
2022 by [14], the global spent on NFT in 2022 so far is £30 
billion, and that 950,000 Wallets were acquired and sold As 
NFTs in Q1 of 2022, and that 250,000 people trade NFTs 
every month on OpenSea. Moreover, stated that there are $10-
$20 million worth of NFT sold in the blockchain every week. 
Reference [14]  stated that $10 million in 2021 was raised by 
3 NFT marketplaces in the Middle East which was led by 
UAE. One of the presented sessions in the “Global Conference 
on Creative Economy” at the Dubai Exhibition Center at Expo 
2020 Dubai (i.e. “Non-fungible Tokens: Inclusion in 
Leadership”), stated that the projected market size of global 
NFT technology will reach $400 billion by 2025 [15] .  
Our research is not the only attempt to investigate the 
potential use of NFTs in real-life applications. It was stated in 
[2] that the use of NFTs has the potential to support new 
patterns of value creation, generate new revenue streams, and 
support agreement among stakeholders. NFTs applications 
have already been used in some industries such as games, 
music, etc. Moreover, its potential use has been studied and 
investigated in various industries and professions as diverse as 
dentistry [16, 7], Education [17], Networking and 
Communications and Information security [18], healthcare [6] 
[19], publishing industry [3], as we do in this research, etc.  
  
V.   NFT IN PUBLISHING INDUSTRY  
This paper is an exploratory one where we try to explore 
how NFT can be used by publishers and how NFT can boost 
the business of this industry. We propose an NFT model for 
the deployment process and then investigate the opportunities 
and challenges in implementing NFT in the industry. 
A. PROPOSED NFTS MODEL 
Figure 1 shows a publishing house's workflow diagram for 
creating NFTs for its products (published works). It shows the 
following: (1) the major stakeholders in the publishing 
industry (author(s), publishing house, NFT platform(s), and 
buyer(s)). (2) The relationship between the author and the 
publishing house on the one hand, and (3) the relationship 
between the publishing house and the NFT platform on the 
other. 
As shown in Figure 1, the process goes like this. (1) The 
publishing house receives materials prepared for publication 
(books, chapters, etc.) from the author after performing all 
operations related to the revision, coordination and production 
of the work. (2) The publishing house uploads the materials 
(e.g. the book's chapters) to the decentralized storage platform 
and (3) gets a private hash for each chapter (or book, if it is 
small in size) or part of the material received. (4) The 
publishing house submit a request to the NFT platform to 
generate an NFT for the stored contents. (5) The NFT platform 
makes it easy to create an NFT using author's data, hashs and 
publishing data as well as MAC (Message Authentication 
Code). (6) Then the NFT data is then stored in the Blockchain 
in which (7) all transactions are permanently stored. An NFT 
is assigned a private unique address to preserve property 
rights. (8) The minted NFT becomes available for others to 
bid if they are interested. (9) An interested buyer makes an 
offer on the listed NFTs, and if (10) the content creator accepts 
the offer, (11) ownership of the NFT is transferred to the 
buyer. 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Figure 1 The NFT workflow diagram in the publishing industry 
Figure 2 shows the main components of NFT. In general, 
each NFT includes a token symbol, token ID, and token 
contract address, as well as the identifier for the NFT 
creator/source. Moreover, every other component in the 
process must have their identification data such as the 
author(s), book, publishing house, as well as the chapters of 
the book (if possible selling it in separated chapters as well). 
In general, books (files of the stored books) can be of big sizes, 
which obviously require a significant increase in the number 
of nodes [20]. Therefore, storing large files using Blockchain 
technology is inefficient. That is, blockchain are not the right 
platform for sharing and storing large files. However, 
fortunately, file-sharing platforms can be leveraged to support 
applications while keeping the size of the blockchain small. 
So restrictions on block size require files to be partitioned and 
reassembled off the blockchain so one particularly chosen file-
sharing platform is resorted to for this purpose, combining file 
sharing and hash files, which is IPFS (Inter Planetary File 
System). IPFS identifies, verifies, and transfers files based on 
hash files encrypted for their contents. For small publications 
all data stays within the Blockchain blocks without using 
IPFS. 
 
Figure 2 The main NFT components in the publishing industry 
B. NFTS OPPORTUNITIES IN THE PUBLISHING 
INDUSTRY 
Managing property rights is a major challenge for small 
and medium publishers, so legal documents explaining the 
partnership between copyright owners and publishers must be 
carefully defined. Most of the small and medium companies 
of publishing houses do not focus on this aspect, and the rights 
of the publisher remain wasted, especially those working in 
the literary field. The NFT smart contract contents system 
facilitates the management of equity and financial rights. 
Conditions and warnings are set and coded into the contract 
so that subsequent sales are automatically transferred to the 
creator's portfolio using a predefined ownership percentage 
[2]. In other words, NFTs are stored in, and verified by 
Blockchain, the original creator of the NFT can be identified, 
and hence can get a percentage of the new price of the resold 
asset (called “resale royalties”) [3], as set in the original smart 
contract, at any time in the future, no matter how many wallets 
they go through [21, 22]. NFTs’ shares are also possible to be 
created which allows a portion ownership instead of full 
possession of NFT since partial sail has been performed [2]. 
NFTs can offer a lot of advantages to books, chapters, and 
the publishing industry in general. What distinguishes NFTs 
from digital copies of books available on Amazon, 
Indiebound, or elsewhere is the association of this copy to the 
existence of the publishing house that issued it and their 
agreement to support the commodity. However, if the 
publishing house collapses, this book will disappear with the 
rest of its platform. With NFTs, you have a copy in a series of 
copies. In addition, the process of hacking this copy is much 
more difficult because its dealt with Blockchain. Another 
aspect of smart contracts is that percentages are included with 
each sale and the payment is instant and automatic. The 
contract can be included for emergencies and change of 
payments or even after the death of the author. Even more so 
is the resale potential, whereby the owner can put the NFT 
back up for sale again. Where the interested parties can reap 
additional profits permanently 
C. NFT CHALLENGES IN PUBLISHING INDUSTRY 
Great attention should be paid to the preservation of 
property rights, including intellectual property, when 
transferring assets from the virtual world to the physical world 
[23]. What still constitutes fundamental problems in the use of 
NFTs in general are speculation, fraud and loose legal 
regulation of their contract [2] . Hence, the safety and security 
of virtual platforms around the world are fundamental and 
require great attention to ensure their realization [7, 5]. 
In the following, we will review the challenges of using 
NFT in publishing through the main components of the NFT 
architecture. 
1- blockchain  
There are some challenges associated with blockchain 
networks [24, 25] in terms of storage requirements and energy 
consumption. The electronic work in publishing and preparing 
books on the one hand, and the marketing and promotion of 
these publications on the other, requires large interactions and 
multiple transactions, which leads to congestion in the 
blockchain network. Thus, it causes long confirmation times 
and high transaction fees. 
In addition, the file sizes and publication materials, which 
contain a lot of images and graphs, are large compared to what 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
was initially designed in the Blockchain system. Therefore, 
NFT content needs a specialized decentralized storage system 
to accommodate the large number of files that need to be 
stored. Therefore, large files should be stored off-chain to free 
up space and avoid clutter.  
Blockchain technology deals with IPFS (Inter Planetary 
File System), where IPFS identifies, verifies and transfers files 
relying on the cryptographic hashes of their contents. 
Therefore, the contents are stored off-chain and only the hash 
of each block is stored inside. These solutions share the idea 
of a peer-to-peer distributed file system, where data is sliced, 
encrypted, and distributed to multiple nodes in a network to 
ensure its integrity and availability. One of the main problems 
with these systems is the lack of access control [20]. 
2- Smart Contracts 
As NFTs are crypto digital assets that use new 
technologies (blockchain and cryptocurrencies), there remains 
fear and uncertainty about how to permanently protect and 
secure a certificate of title (copyrights in publishing industry), 
which could pose a potential risk to the asset's ownership and 
value [26]. 
NFT clients (stakeholders, in our model) are linked 
through smart contracts that follow certain standards, such as 
ERC-721, ERC-1155 and Ethereum [27]. These contracts are 
usually embedded in market platforms to facilitate exchange 
between users, so these contracts must be correctly and 
accurately coded to avoid exploiting vulnerabilities, otherwise 
NFTs losing their value.  
A common vulnerability (weakness) in smart contracts is 
re-entry and in our case there is a high probability of reentry 
as some books require each chapter to have its own NFT. This 
vulnerability allows this functionality to be executed 
externally [28]. This exploit can be devastating to the value of 
NFTs as this malicious user can copy a new copy of the NFT 
from the same smart contract address and thus it becomes 
difficult for users to distinguish it from the original. 
3- Security and privacy  
Security and privacy is a priority in every digital system, 
which representing the biggest challenge for every technology 
and digital solution connected to a public network, where data 
is at risk of losing the connection or hacking by unauthorized 
parties. It is important to consider the risks of fraudulent 
activities that may occur in the market, licensing and access to 
assets, intellectual property rights, etc., which may be 
associated with NFT [8]. The privacy of NFTs is still being 
studied to this day [29]. 
NFT security and privacy is inextricably linked to the 
security and privacy of its core components.  Blockchain is 
related to the hash technology used in the process of securing 
information. Research into the development of the hash 
technology [30] used in Blockchain will enhance the security 
and privacy of NFT. The core of our upcoming research is to 
study the role of hashing in NFT components in more detail to 
discover their shortcomings and how to eliminate them and 
hopefully introduce new hashing techniques that use advanced 
mathematical algorithms that are more effective in protecting 
security and privacy. 
 
 
CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATIONS 
In this paper, we present a new trend in the potential use 
of NFT technology in the field of electronic book publishing. 
In contrast to the theoretical study presented by [3], we 
proposed an operational plan that links the publishing houses' 
work process to the NFT platform while identifying its core 
components. After studying the main features of the 
components of NFTs, it is explained how to overcome the 
difficulties of limited storage volumes in the Blockchain by 
using another storage platform IPFS. Although the use of an 
additional storage platform leads to the separation of the 
content of the stored material into two parts, which increases 
the possibility of hacking and access by third parties. Smart 
contracts are affected by the nature of the book's stored 
content, which forces multiple access to the contents of a book 
consisting of multiple chapters. Therefore, searches for 
specific topics require building an NFT for each chapter of the 
book. To secure these processes requires setting strict 
conditions and standards in smart contracts. 
NFT technology is a guarantor of copyright even after the 
demise of the publishing house, because it adopts smart 
contract technology. 
There is an urgent need for more research into the 
reliability of NFTs and the degree of property security by 
examining methods for securing key components of an NFT 
architecture. 
NFT cannot be considered a bubble that may disappear as 
some have mentioned at any time, but it is a technology that 
may require more time to become a broader technology in 
securing digital and real (non-digital) properties. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1]  M. Dowling, "Fertile LAND: Pricing non-fungible tokens," Finance 
Research Letters, Vols. 44, 102096, 2022.  
[2]  D. Chalmers, C. Fisch, R. Matthews, W. Quinn and J. Recker, 
"Beyond the bubble: Will NFTs and digital proof of ownership 
empower creative industry entrepreneurs?," Journal of Business 
Venturing Insights, Vols. 17, e00309, 2022.  
[3]  B. Rosenblatt, "Could NFTs Work in Publishing?," PW publishers 
weekly, 16.10. 2021. 
[4]  P. REINMOELLER and K. SCHMEDDERS, "Why the NFT Market 
Will Collapse," Project Syndicate, The World’s Opinion Page 
Newsletters, Jan 28, 2022. 
[5]  M. Duguleană and F. Gîrbacia, "Augmented Reality meets Non-
Fungible Tokens: Insights Towards Preserving Property Rights," in 
2021 IEEE International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented 
Reality Adjunct (ISMAR-Adjunct), Bari, Italy, 2021.  
[6]  A. Musamih, K. Salah, R. Jayaraman, I. Yaqoob, D. Puthal and S. 
Ellahham, "NFTs in Healthcare: Vision, Opportunities, and 
Challenges," IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, pp. 1-11, 2022.  
[7]  K. Afrashtehfar and A. Abu-Fanas, "Metaverse, Crypto, and NFTs in 
Dentistry," Education Science, vol. 12, no. 8, p. 538, 2022.  
[8]  H. P. T. Lai, Techno-Sustainability Assessment for NFTs, Thesis, 
DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.36418.04802, 2022.  
[9]  K. a. T. F. Afrashtehfar, "An online tool that provides access to 
evidence-based literature on dental restorations," J Prosthet Dent, vol. 
118, no. 6, p. 696–697, 2017.  
[10] L. Ante, "Non-fungible token (NFT) markets on the Ethereum 
blockchain: temporal development, cointegration and interrelations," 
Economics of Innovation and New Technology, 2022.  
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[11] D. Ross, E. Cretu and V. Lemieux, "NFTs: Tulip Mania or Digital 
Renaissance?," in 2021 IEEE International Conference on Big Data 
(Big Data), 2021.  
[12] M. Nadini, L. Alessandretti, F. D. Giacinto, M. Martino, L. M. Aiello 
and A. Baronchelli, "Mapping the NFT revolution: market trends, 
trade networks, and visual features," Sci Rep 11, vol. 20902, 2021.  
[13] M. A. Baytaş, A. Cappellaro and Y. Fernaeus, "Stakeholders and 
Value in the NFT Ecosystem: Towards a Multi-disciplinary 
Understanding of the NFT Phenomenon," in CHI Conference on 
Human Factors in Computing Systems Extended Abstracts (CHI ’22 
Extended Abstracts), New Orleans, LA, USA. ACM, New York, NY, 
USA, 2022.  
[14] T. Becker, "The Growth of NFTs in the UAE: Stats & Facts," Nexa, 
August 17, 2022. 
[15] "Non-fungible Tokens: Inclusion in Leadership,," in Global 
Conference on Creative Economy, Dubai, Expo 2020, 2021.  
[16] K. Afrashtehfar, J.-W. Yang, A. Al-Sammarraie, H. Chen and M. 
Saeed, "Pre-clinical undergraduate students’ perspectives on the 
adoption of virtual and augmented reality to their dental learning 
experience," F1000Research, pp. 1-8, 2021.  
[17] A. Elmessiry and M. a. B. L. Elmessiry, "NFT STUDENT TEACHER 
INCENTIVE SYSTEM (NFT-STIS)," in f EDULEARN21 
Conference, 2021.  
[18] A. Ben Mnaouer and L. Chaari Fourati, Enabling Blockchain 
Technology for Secure Networking and Communications, USA: IGI 
Global, 2021, p. 339. 
[19] W. Bodeis and G. P. Corser, "Blockchain Adoption, Implementation 
and Integration in Healthcare Application Systems," in SoutheastCon 
2021, Atlanta, GA, USA, 2021.  
[20] M. Steichen, B. Fiz, R. Norvill and W. S. a. R. State, "Blockchain-
Based, Decentralized Access Control for IPFS," in 2018 IEEE 
International Conference on Internet of Things (iThings) and IEEE 
Green Computing and Communications (GreenCom) and IEEE 
Cyber, Physical and Social Computing (CPSCom) and IEEE Smart 
Data (SmartData), 2018.  
[21] S. Chevet, "Blockchain technology and non-fungible tokens: 
Reshaping value chains in creative industries," SSRN Electronic 
Journal, 2018.  
[22] D. Piyadigama and G. Poravi, "An Analysis of the Features 
Considerable for NFT Recommendations," in 15th International 
Conference on Human System Interaction (HSI), 2022.  
[23] M. Duguleană and F. Gîrbacia, "Augmented Reality meets Non-
Fungible Tokens: Insights Towards Preserving Property Rights," in 
2021 IEEE International Symposium on Mixed and Augmented 
Reality Adjunct (ISMAR-Adjunct), 2021 .  
[24] D. Puthal, N. Malik, S. P. Mohanty, E. Kougianos and a. G. Das, 
"Everything you Wanted to Know about the Blockchain: Its Promise, 
Components, Processes, and Problems," IEEE Consumer Electronics 
Magazine, vol. 7, no. 4, pp. 06-14.v, 7 2018.  
[25] N. Popper, "There is Nothing Virtual About Bitcoin's Energy 
Appetite.," The New York Times, 21 01 2018.  
[26] P. Reinmüller and K. Schmiders, "The market for non-fungible 
tokens: challenges and prospects," Albayan, February 25 2022. 
[27] W. Entriken, D. Shirley, J. Evans and N. Sachs, "EIP-721: Non-
Fungible TokenStandard," Ethereum Improvement Proposals, 2018. 
[28] Y. Chinen, N. Yanai, J. P. Cruz and S. Okamura, "RA: Hunting for 
Re-Entrancy Attacks in Ethereum Smart Contracts via Static 
Analysis," in 2020 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain 
(Blockchain), 2020.  
[29] D. Uribe and G. Waters, "Privacy Laws, Non-Fungible Tokens, and 
Genomics," The Journal of the British Blockchain Association, vol. 3, 
no. 2, pp. 1-10, 2020.  
[30] S. Edris, H. Zerkta, S. khawatmi and W. Aiyash, "Enhanced HMAC 
Based upon 3-D Rossler System," in 2009 International Conference 
on Future Computer and Communication, Kuala Lumpar, Malaysia, 
2009.  
[31] D. Chalmers, C. Fisch, R. Matthews, W. Quinn and J. Recker, 
"Beyond the bubble: Will NFTs and digital proof of ownership 
empower creative industry entrepreneurs?," Journal of Business 
Venturing Insights, Vols. 17, e00309, 2022.  
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.