Integration of Artificial Intelligence and the Internet of Things with Blockchain Technology
Integration of Artificial Intelligence
and the Internet of Things
with Blockchain Technology
K. Saritha, Muralidhar Kurni, K. Madhavi, and D. Nagadevi
Abstract Artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, and the Internet of Things (IoT)
give a unique opportunity to the public sector and enterprises. All institutions that
leverage these innovations develop advanced goods and services for new customer
generation by associating streamline and improving modern processes and building
entirely new business models. The internet, mobile devices, and personal computing
put a supercomputer in our hands. We have been exposed to distracting technology
earlier and recognized that it changes the world as we know it. However, several
of these examples from past times appeared in isolation steadily and objectively.
Before the origination of the internet, we used personal computing, and the game
changed again. We were internet-savvy lay before smartphones put the internet in
our pocket. Several new developments are evolving at once: 5G broadband, 3D
printing, virtual and augmented reality, plus more. As these technologies provide
the business with exciting opportunities and major challenges, we consider three
to be truly transformative: IoT, AI, and blockchain. All three alone would have the
ability to alter industry, leisure, and culture as a whole. However, together they will
have an unparalleled transformational effect. First time in civilized history, the very
generation has created three revolutionary innovations; furthermore, it is a sight
of what is coming. The digital revolution means technological transformation has
shifted from a phenomenon once in a lifetime to a continuous phase. Now any
company that falls behind will soon be able to close an insurmountable distance. In
K. Saritha
Sri Venkateswara Degree and PG College, Anantapuramu 515001, AP, India
e-mail: ksaritha.phd@gmail.com
M. Kurni (B)
JNTUA, Anantapuramu 515002, AP, India
e-mail: muralidhar.kurni@ieee.org
K. Madhavi
Department of CSE, JNTUACEA, Anantapuramu 515002, AP, India
e-mail: kasamadhavi.cse@jntua.ac.in
D. Nagadevi
Department of ECE, CBIT, Hyderabad 500075, Telangana, India
e-mail: dnagadevi_ece@cbit.ac.in
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2021
S. Jyothi et al. (eds.), Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Computational
and Bio Engineering, Lecture Notes in Networks and Systems 215,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-1941-0_45
449
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-16-1941-0_45&domain=pdf
mailto:ksaritha.phd@gmail.com
mailto:muralidhar.kurni@ieee.org
mailto:kasamadhavi.cse@jntua.ac.in
mailto:dnagadevi_ece@cbit.ac.in
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-1941-0_45
450 K. Saritha et al.
this paper, we will look into how you can develop your company for AI, IoT, and
blockchain and enable your business to use them both forthwith and in the future.We
will explore how the cloud functions as both an enabler and an accelerant—paving
the way to adopt any new technology.
Keywords Internet of things (IoT) · Artificial intelligence (AI) · Blockchain ·
Digital revolution · Transformational technologies
1 Internet of Things: Sense the World
To understand AI, IoT, and blockchain, we accommodate to consider them as inter-
connected organic processes. IoT is similar to the human nervous system. It senses
that a universe of new data recorded with billions of connected devices worldwide
[1]. AI is like the brain’s imagining part. It thinks by a review of previously reserved
data and decisions for humans [2]. Blockchain, furthermore, is like our memory—it
provides a secure and persisting record of data transfers and transactions [3]. Figure 1
shows the synthesis of AI, blockchain, and IoT.
IoT transforms a world of things into a world of data. Everything practically from
an intelligent look that tracks heart rate, blood pressure, and blood sugar levels to
Fig. 1 Synthesis of AI, Blockchain, and IoT [4]
Integration of Artificial Intelligence … 451
a connected plant that monitors all manufacturing stages can be equated with and
made smart.
1.1 IoT in Action
IoT has a more comprehensive impact on some sectors than others [5]. When IoT
considers public markets, transportation, manufacturing, consumer goods, auto-
mobiles, and healthcare are not identical. It enables collecting new information
and enhancing current business processes, swift promotion of inventive goods and
services, and collecting information on customer preferences and patterns.
It is easy to imagine IoT in and around the home for consumer applications. A
host of personal electronic devices and smart home appliances will lead to consumer
products’ transformation to revolutionize customer experience and provide retailers
with a spate of valuable knowledge. However, IoT’s influence is felt far beyond the
home.
In automotive manufacturing, IoT allows manufacturers to make connected,
autonomous, shared, and electric (CASE) vehicles [6] a usable reality and secure.
Data created by these connected vehicles, including numerous other items, to track
their driving patterns, create custom coverage options, may be used by insurers, and
claim process accurately. Moreover, manufacturers can produce connected, intelli-
gent factories that track health equipment, reduce downtime, production cost, and
optimize productivity.
1.2 Going There
In IoT, there is great potential. An estimated 20.4 billion IoT devices will be in
circulation, offering higher than 14 zettabytes of data annually. However, both IoT
initiatives have been hard to execute and underused; only a small part of the data
deluge is processed and implemented.
To achieve the market advantages of IoT, the organization must [7]:
• Develop and adopt an IoT-enabled device ecosystem
• Source, handle, and store large quantities of data
• Introduce advanced analytics and learning capacities for machines
• Build innovative IoT applications using data perspicacity
• Incorporate IoT with current workflows and applications used
• End-to-end security implementation
• Track and control the whole chain of values
In IoT, there is a big chance. Nevertheless, the company’s hurdle is to carry on
existing infrastructure, technologies, and skills to increase time to assess and lessen
452 K. Saritha et al.
IoT implementation costs and complexity. The rewards for good people would also
be important.
2 Artificial Intelligence: Thinking About Data
If IoT is the sensory portion of transformation technology, AI is the thinking compo-
nent. In the wide field of artificial intelligence, machine learning is ready to have the
greatest effect [8]. It has the potential to allow fast, smart decision-making, either
to help or replace human intelligence. Businesses can assign mundane or complex
tasks beyond workers’ capacity to achieve a degree of precision and productivity.
However, it has significant legal, ethical, and even theological ramifications to
bring decisions into the hands of smart machines. Whilst AI and machine learning
are now conducting intelligent interventions on behalf of people.
2.1 Machine Learning in Action
The acumens of machine learning help the organization to recognize consumer
choices better and market dynamics and enable automated, personalized commit-
ments. These help to develop new products and services designed to meet modern
customers’ needs and efficiently reduce market gaps. Moreover, it will improve
business operations with informative strategic feedback and guidance.
Machine learning can transformhumancapital through increased recruiting, reten-
tion of workers, and maximization of productivity. It is the driving force in the auto-
motive industry behind autonomous vehicles. It recognizes and fixes network errors
in the telecommunications industry and enables financial service institutions to make
customers more accurate. Customer Service chatbots [9] include machine learning
capabilities,marketing expertise, personalized products and services, andmuchmore
like recognizing cybersecurity vulnerabilities. It is not easy to imagine a technology
with comprehensive transformational potential now or across the past.
2.2 Going There
There is little distrust that machine learning would have a profound effect on busi-
ness. However, why are we not seeing more innovative machine learning products,
services, and business models today on the market? Like IoT, the response is to
optimize the company.
Machine learning advantages can be more complex than they seem. Implemen-
tation is not going to be a case of tossing and watching a turn come to life. It is a
progressive operation.
Integration of Artificial Intelligence … 453
To make use of the true value of machine learning in the real world, the enterprise
must [7]:
• Identify opportunities for improved company or supply chain intelligence
• Accumulate and store huge quantities of data—internal and external, structured
and unstructured
• Recruiting and maintaining the best talent to make machine learning work
• Fully incorporate machine learning into old and modern applications.
• Set up it over a range of functions alternative of narrow cases
• Use it for present-day infrastructure and capabilities rather than starting from
scratch
• Consider legal and ethical concerns surrounding the introduction of AI
The initial challenge was to introduce and leverage machine learning in the busi-
ness. However, the advantages of performing so are accessible. Enterprises have no
alternative but to manage to incorporate machine learning into their business model
processes or risk falling behind agile competitors.
3 Blockchain: Committing Transactions to Memory
Blockchain technology is regarded as the underlying Bitcoin and other cryptocurren-
cies, yet it is much, far more. Imagine blockchain as the framework for trustworthy
computing, it provides all forms of data exchanges with reliability, transparency,
security, financial transactions, legal and contractual arrangements, and ownership
changes.
A blockchain adopts a categorized peer-to-peer network to register all the
exchanges, eliminating the need for granted arbiter go-betweens in digital transac-
tions. The result is faster operations, visibility of real-time transactions, and decreased
costs in all sectors.
There are few places in which the transforming power of blockchain is not felt.
Gartner predicts that by 2025, blockchain could generate $176 billion in value-added
revenue, revolutionize the supply chain, encourage new business models, and upset
established models [10].
3.1 Blockchain in Action
Blockchain in many sectors and industries, including insurance, financial services,
health, human resources, e-commerce, can prove itself a game-changer [11]. Typi-
cally, digital information is transmitted everywhere. Blockchain will provide trans-
parency across the entire supply chain in the consumer goods industry by stream-
lining product recalls, asset monitoring, improving accountability, and improving
454 K. Saritha et al.
consumer confidence. It helps to ensure that intellectual property rights are safe-
guarded in science and education. Moreover, in banking, the rocket fuel that powers
the revolution in fintech is blockchain.
3.2 Getting There
As with AI, blockchain and IoT would have embraced and applied more compres-
sively by now, especially given new media speculation on cryptocurrencies and
blockchain. However, it is still a comparative rareness outside these agile fintech star-
tups. The issue is well known; perceived danger and uncertainly prevent extensive
adoption.
Limits to adoption by blockchain comprise [7]:
• Cost and device resource availability.
• Failure to control blockchain miners.
• Anyone who enters must consent rules of the blockchain network.
• Currently, blockchain contracts are unchecked in court.
• Blockchain shall be compatible with current recording systems.
• Few cases of prevailing use offer a convincing or direct investment return.
• Conventional stakeholders continue to be risk-averse.
There is no question that blockchain is revolutionary. Much of its effect, even on
a theoretical level, has yet to be investigated. However, these stumbling blocks must
be solved before the organization can explore the blockchain potential’s scope.
4 Making Transformation Real
In each of us, feeling, thinking, and remembering combine these three skills to
allow all the human effort’s wonderful possibilities. IoT, machine learning, and
blockchain are both theoretically self-transforming but exponentially more efficient
when combined. These three disruptive technologies will change the world together
[7].
• At home: Even the new technology today is typically more reactive than
constructive. Consider a virtual assistant like Alexa, Siri, or Cortana. Send
them a command, and they will answer, order a product, say, or call on your
behalf. However, these virtual assistants, powered by transformative technolo-
gies, become even more proactive. Shortly, your virtual helper might discover
that you are using a specific product and recommend that it tell you how to find
the best value by changing purchasing habits and places an order for you. Your
refrigerator’s IoT data will decide that your milk is inadequate. Machine learning
Integration of Artificial Intelligence … 455
figures out where you get the favorite brand, cheapest, and distributor list. More-
over, blockchain ensures to get precisely what you paid for, and the transaction is
safely processed.
• Healthcare: Consider a healthcare study in its current practice that depends on
the patient today. You know when you have to see your doctor, usually only if
there are noticeable signs, an accident has happened. Moreover, have to make an
appointment. Moreover, they also have to recall the important specifics of medical
history. Moreover, of course, human beings are frail and distracted. Alternately,
assume a nation of patients with sensor equipment. Machine learning tracks IoT
sensor information and can assess when something is wrong at an early level. The
virtual assistant will reference your calendar with your physician and automati-
cally schedule an appointment. Moreover, blockchain ensures that the doctor has
a safe, precise digital medical history once the patient arrives.
• Cyber protection: Modern, more stringent laws, such as the GDPR (General Data
Protection Regulation), the mutating threat of cybercrime, and the rising impor-
tance and proliferation of consumer data, made cybersecurity universally urgent.
However, even here, AI, IoT, and blockchain can transform. These systems largely
take the human factor out of cybersecurity processes and, thus, human error. In a
centralized repository, log and audit data can be obtained when virtually every-
thing is sensor-fitted. Machine learning can interpret these data much quicker
and more reliably than any human being can, take rational decisions, and take
autonomous action. Moreover, every critical proof is safely registered through
blockchain. It is a system that effectively circumvents the most common reasons
for carelessness, data violations, human error, and malicious interference.
• In production: Let us understand how the manufacturing industry reinvents these
transformational innovations. Production managers obtain a remote digital view
of any machine in each factory via a production management cloud solution.
Using machine-learning proactive maintenance, they can see output data for each
piece of equipment and predict malfunction in advance. The right technician may
be allocated the right job at the appropriate time, a work order can be put, and
replacement parts safely purchased via blockchain.
5 Realizing Tomorrow, Today
Disruptive technologies affect the change in our professional lives, personal lives,
businesses, and society as a whole. However, their influence does not belong to an
ambiguous and faraway future. Most of these features are currently available. So
how you utilize the venerable perspective and enable companies to benefit from AI,
IoT, and blockchain disruptive impacts? The solution is in the cloud. The truth is that
it would be incredibly difficult to introduce any new technology without a cloud. It
equalizes the field of play. Moreover, small businesses can reach the same computing
power and resources as comprehensive companies via the cloud, while conventional
companies can embrace the same versatility as agile technology startups. Cloud
456 K. Saritha et al.
facilitates creativity, minimizes IT investment, and speeds up introducing emerging
innovations such as those three game-changers.
5.1 Going There
Things to remember in planning your company for technology transformation [7]:
• Focus on IoT, AI, and blockchain.
• Note that the playfield level is the cloud. Without it, you cannot get there.
• Recognize that massive volumes of data underpin these technologies.
• Appreciate that the use and realization of transformative technology can involve
a change in business processes or models.
6 Conclusion
With IoT’s intuitive ability, AI’s and machine learning cognitive strength, and the
unfailing blockchain memory, everyone can develop and restore business processes
and standards. However, collectively, they are revolutionary, adapting all markets,
sectors, and companies into their heads. There has been a technologically powered
future. It is time to sculpt your niche. Start today with your transformation.
References
1. Kurni M (2021) Internet of Things (IoT) in Agriculture. In: Multidisciplinary functions of
blockchain technology in AI and IoT applications. IGI Global, pp 88–117. https://doi.org/10.
4018/978-1-7998-5876-8.ch005
2. Liu J, Kong X, Xia F, Bai X, Wang L, Qing Q, Lee I (2018) Artificial intelligence in the 21st
century. IEEE Access 6:34403–34421. https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2819688
3. Zheng Z, Xie S, Dai H, Chen X, Wang H (2017) An overview of blockchain technology:
architecture, consensus, and future trends. In: Proceedings of the 2017 IEEE 6th international
congress on big data, bigdata congress 2017, pp 557–564. https://doi.org/10.1109/BigDataCo
ngress.2017.85
4. Parker B, Bach C (2020) The synthesis of blockchain, artificial intelligence and internet of
things. Eur J Eng Res Sci 5(5):588–593. https://doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2020.5.5.1912
5. Forbes (2018) How IoT Is impacting 7 key industries today. Forbes. https://www.forbes.
com/sites/insights-inteliot/2018/08/24/how-iot-is-impacting-7-key-industries-today/#6d06ac
11a845
6. Afshar V (2020) The car of the future is connected, autonomous, shared, and elec-
tric. ZDNet. https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-car-of-the-future-is-connected-autonomous-
shared-and-electric/
7. Oracle (2018) Transformational technologies : today How IoT, AI, and blockchain will revo-
lutionize business. http://www.oracle.com/us/solutions/cloud/tt-technologies-white-paper-449
8079.pdf
https://doi.org/10.4018/978-1-7998-5876-8.ch005
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2819688
https://doi.org/10.1109/BigDataCongress.2017.85
https://doi.org/10.24018/ejers.2020.5.5.1912
https://www.forbes.com/sites/insights-inteliot/2018/08/24/how-iot-is-impacting-7-key-industries-today/#6d06ac11a845
https://www.zdnet.com/article/the-car-of-the-future-is-connected-autonomous-shared-and-electric/
http://www.oracle.com/us/solutions/cloud/tt-technologies-white-paper-4498079.pdf
Integration of Artificial Intelligence … 457
8. Balasubramanyam S (2012) New technologies and environments. In: The IFPUG guide to IT
and software measurement, pp 385–386. https://doi.org/10.1201/b11884-28
9. Appmomos (2020) AI tools to improve your mobile application. Appmomos. https://app
momos.com/ai-tools-to-improve-your-mobile-application/
10. Gartner (2019) Newsroom Contacts. Gartner Newsroom (August 2019), 2019–2021.
https://www.gartner.com/en/newsroom/press-releases/2019-07-03-gartner-predicts-90–of-
current-enterprise-blockchain#:~:text=By2025%2Cthe business value, a recent forecast by
Gartner.&text=Gartner clients can learn more,by Adrian Lee and others
11. CB Insights (2020) The blockchain report 2020. In: CB Insights. https://www.cbinsights.com/
reports/CB-Insights_Blockchain-Report-2020.pdf?utm_campaign=marketing_blockchain_2
020-03&utm_medium=email&_hsmi=84940793&_hsenc=p.2ANqtz-8r6RWZHBTipnpnf
9o5z8YAo2Mq-9tyJp_jE0YS7MRNFqtjaCWOopxvlgTfZ_98oqHo1er2A08wyuVJnSP4M3
HlPsGXAg
https://doi.org/10.1201/b11884-28
https://appmomos.com/ai-tools-to-improve-your-mobile-application/
https://www.cbinsights.com/reports/CB-Insights_Blockchain-Report-2020.pdf%3futm_campaign%3dmarketing_blockchain_2020-03%26utm_medium%3demail%26_hsmi%3d84940793%26_hsenc%3dp.2ANqtz-8r6RWZHBTipnpnf9o5z8YAo2Mq-9tyJp_jE0YS7MRNFqtjaCWOopxvlgTfZ_98oqHo1er2A08wyuVJnSP4M3HlPsGXAg
	 Integration of Artificial Intelligence and the Internet of Things with Blockchain Technology
	1 Internet of Things: Sense the World
	1.1 IoT in Action
	1.2 Going There
	2 Artificial Intelligence: Thinking About Data
	2.1 Machine Learning in Action
	2.2 Going There
	3 Blockchain: Committing Transactions to Memory
	3.1 Blockchain in Action
	3.2 Getting There
	4 Making Transformation Real
	5 Realizing Tomorrow, Today
	5.1 Going There
	6 Conclusion
	References