Synchronization Games in P2P Energy Trading
Synchronization Games in P2P Energy Trading
Olga Saukh
Institute of Technical Informatics
TU Graz / CSH Vienna, Austria
saukh@tugraz.at
Franz Papst
Institute of Technical Informatics
TU Graz / CSH Vienna, Austria
franz.papst@gmail.com
Sergii Saukh
Pukhov Institute of Modelling Problems
in Power Engineering, Ukraine
ssaukh@gmail.com
Abstract—The rise of distributed energy generation technolo-
gies along with grid constraints, and conventional non-consumer
centric business models, is leading many to explore alternative
configurations of the energy system. Particularly popular are
peer-to-peer energy trading models in which the role of the
energy company is replaced with a trustless transaction layer
based on a public blockchain. However, to ensure stable operation
of microgrids, an energy company is required to constantly
balance supply and demand. In this paper, we study the problem
that arises from the conflicting goals of prosumers (to make
money) and network operators (to keep the network stable)
that have to co-exist in future energy systems. We show that
prosumers can play large-scale synchronization games to benefit
from the system. If they synchronize their actions to artificially
increase energy demand on the market, the resulting power
peaks will force the microgrid operator to use backup generation
capacities and, as a consequence, contribute to the increased
profit margins for prosumers. We study synchronization games
from a game-theoretical point of view and argue that even
non-cooperative selfish prosumers can learn to play synchro-
nization games independently and enforce undesired outcomes
for consumers and the grid. We build a simple model where
prosumers independently run Q-learning algorithms to learn
their most profitable strategies and show that synchronization
games constitute a Nash equilibrium. We discuss implications of
our findings and argue the necessity of appropriate mechanism
design for stable microgrid operation.
I. INTRODUCTION
Renewable energy sources, i.e., solar and wind, are the
key to tackling global decarbonization [1]. They open new
opportunities of large-scale and distributed power generation.
First, the local usage of energy results in better power quality
by minimizing voltage fluctuations, and reducing line loss [2].
Second, distributed power generation makes the system more
reliable and resilient to outages of the microgrid [3]. How-
ever, integration of renewables in today’s power grid remains
challenging. Conventionally, power is generated centrally and
flows unidirectionally to passive consumers who pay a fixed
price according to contractual agreements with the utility
company. Since the energy is consumed directly from its
production, during high demand periods balancing supply
and demand is necessary to guarantee stable grid operation.
Utility companies often have to respond with costly fast energy
generation via peak spinning reserves [4], [3].
Transition to distributed power generation and a bidirec-
tional power flow is challenging. Conventional power grid
architecture has never been designed to provide the required
support neither from hardware side, i.e., in terms of wires
and transformers, nor from the overall control architecture [5].
Nevertheless, rapid technological advancements in the fol-
lowing three areas boost the transition towards a smart grid.
First, renewable energy sources need to be connected to the
network. Their rise is supported by Swanson’s law [6], which
says that the price for solar panels reduces by 20% for every
doubling in produced panels. For example, already now in a
typical Belgian neighborhood almost 10% of the households
are prosumers [7]. We can expect many more homes to be
equipped with solar panels in the future. Second, supporting
a network with a growing distributed generation capacity
requires a matching capacity for energy storage. Falling bat-
tery costs [1] give additional flexibility to the network to
address the demand-side response and open new economic
opportunities for storage technologies. Finally, decentralization
processes in other domains, including financial systems [8]
and the Internet [9], created technologies such as blockchains,
smart contracts, and trustless systems, crucial for decentralized
control of future power systems.
Conflicting Interests. Peer-to-peer (P2P) energy systems
promise to balance supply and demand in a real-time, au-
tonomous, and decentralized manner. They give the advan-
tage of promoting distributed and flexible energy generation
controlled by their owners, however we need to ensure the
overall system also benefits stability of the grid infrastructure.
There are conflicts of interests between setting up efficient
market mechanisms for people trading energy (trading layer),
and what is needed in terms of management of the network
(network layer) [10]. One conflict example addresses locality
of energy generation and consumption. Energy trading can be
set up though the Internet at global scale to enable energy
trading with people next door or in another country. This
benefits energy generators by promoting uptake and adoption
of renewable technologies, but makes little sense from the
network management prospective. In contrast to energy trading
realized by virtual money transfer, the underlying energy net-
work comprises physical infrastructure and requires balancing
the energy coming into the network and that coming out in
real time. From the smart grid prospective, we want to make
sure that energy trading happens as locally as possible. This
conflict has been broadly addressed in the literature mainly
from the game-theoretical point of view and led to a variety
of energy trading models with their optimal strategies for local
energy trading [11], [12], [3].
Problem Statement. Another conflict, studied in this paper,
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm)
978-1-5386-7954-8/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
arises from the shift of the focus to power (i.e., instantaneous
energy generation and consumption measured in watts) rather
than energy (in watt hours), as the driving cost factor in the
new generation of energy systems [13], [14]. The reason is
two-fold: 1) renewables have high capital and low operating
cost, yet generation is intermittent, and 2) power network
has constrained capacity which directly impacts the energy
price. Taking into account large scale of power grids in
terms of the number of agents, their interest in own benefit
(i.e., selfishness), and their ability to synchronize their efforts
(e.g., by means of software) may lead to unreasonably high
power peaks if market mechanisms are not in place. For
example, short cycles of synchronous consumption run by
prosumers, instead of using own generating capacities, may
force activation of energy reserves by network operator to
stabilize the network. The inherent artificially increased energy
prices benefit generators as they can now enjoy higher profit
margins for their energy resource. Efficiency of the described
synchronized behavior relies on the high activation cost of
the spinning reserves [15] to cope with immediate need
to increase network capacity. Synchronization requires little
effort but helps prosumers sell their energy at highest price.
Few works explore prosumer selfishness in this context. Most
relevant is research on incentive mechanisms for demand-side
response [16], [10], which would make such synchronization
games difficult to realize given large number of consumers.
For example, LO3 Energy [17] announced paying consumer
for choosing to turn off appliances at peak times, yet providing
evidence of purposeful customer behavior is challenging [14].
Contributions and Roadmap. In this paper we study syn-
chronization games in P2P energy systems and show that
synchronized behavior of players on the energy market hides
huge potential of misusing network resources and can be
leveraged by prosumers for their own benefit. This paper
makes the following contributions:
• We introduce in Sec. III synchronization games and
explain their relevance to distributed energy systems.
• Sec. IV describes simulation of a P2P energy market and
shows that selfish synchronized behavior of prosumers
leads to highly suboptimal equilibrium system state.
• We discuss in Sec. V what conditions cause undesired
behavior and which technologies contribute to it. We
conclude the paper with a discussion of mechanism
designs that help avoid synchronization games.
As next we put synchronization issue into related contexts.
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Grid Management. Current research intensively evaluates al-
ternative architectures of the power grid to allow easy integra-
tion of renewable energy sources and eliminating major issues
of the conventional system [18], [3]. Popular models suggest
hierarchical structure of the grid composed of interconnected
peer microgrids. A microgrid comprises smart homes and
small-scale local industries that buy energy (consumers), sell
(generators) or both (prosumers), yet act as a single entity
with respect to the grid. Microgrids can be connected and
disconnected from the grid [3]. A macrogrid is a network of
microgrids and various power generated capacities linked to-
gether with high voltage and long distance power lines. Energy
flow between microgrids is managed by utility companies.
The main challenge is to balance supply and demand at
both micro and macro levels of the grid in scarcity and
surplus situations. Solutions to this problem are usually based
on better forecasting [19], [20], demand-side response [16],
[10], [14] and using interruptible loads [13]. However, there
is always a reserved margin of backup capacity that grid
operators hold back to respond to a range of factors that
could threaten the ability to meet the load. The factors include
errors in forecasting, unplanned outages due to plant failures,
and transmission outages of power lines and associated equip-
ment [13]. Different types of plants are used to meet each type
of load. Low-cost nuclear and coal plants are typically used to
meet constant demands in the system. Hydroelectric stations
are used as baseload or intermediate load plants. Peaking
generators, such as gas turbines or older gas- or oil-fired steam
generators, are used to cover for extreme spikes in demand and
may be used for only a few hours per year [13]. Peaking plants
are expensive to run because they are often less efficient than
other types of plants and use more expensive fuel. Network
operators use a mix of generators to meet demand at low cost.
Energy Trading. Residential load is conventionally charged
by a fixed price while commercial and industrial loads face
time-of-use pricing, i.e., prices are high when demand is
high [21]. P2P energy markets require new trading models and
price formation. Energy trading is defined in [3] as the transfer
of energy from an entity that produces energy to an entity with
a deficit within a certain time interval. The demand can always
be satisfied from the macrogrid, but at a higher cost. The task
is to find optimal strategies for each system user such that
the overall cost for the community is minimized. P2P energy
trading gives several obvious advantages to users: 1) the ability
to make personal decision on the type of energy, 2) local usage
of energy and as a result less line loss [2], 3) higher system
reliability, and 4) seamless integration of renewable energy
source and energy storage solutions on the edge. A number
of research projects explore energy trading mechanisms [22],
[17], [23], [24]. They integrate new technologies such as
blockchains and smart contracts, liberalize energy markets by
introducing pricing mechanisms based on bidding to provide
benefits to renewable energy generators and local energy users.
Modeling pricing strategies as an auction is popular in energy
markets, e.g., Cournot auction [25], Vickrey auction [26], pay-
as-bid auction [27], multi-follower Stackelberg game [28].
Game Theory. A large body of work analyses energy mar-
kets from a game-theoretical point of view [11], [29], [28],
[12] with the goal to derive optimal strategies for the mar-
ket players. Energy trading is often modeled as a dynamic
non-cooperative game played in multiple rounds. In a non-
cooperative setting, all agents learn purely selfish strategies
by trying to maximize their own benefit without considering
any prior information from other agents. Q-learning [12] and
DQN [29] are popular approaches to learn agents’ strategies,
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
that result in a Nash equilibrium (NE) [30] in their joint
action space where individual utilities are maximized and any
unilateral deviation decreases their utility.
In contrast to learning an optimal strategy, mechanism
design is concerned with designing games such that certain
outcomes are achieved by rational players. Mechanism design
has not played a significant role in energy trading so far [3].
This paper highlights the need for mechanism design to avoid
undesired outcomes. We show that player synchronization is
essential. People’s pronounced need to cooperate, which goes
beyond rational arguments [31], makes synchronization games
even more probable without proper mechanism design.
Synchronization. Timing plays a prominent role in energy
network management. Operators perform balancing in real
time to ensure stability of the overall energy system. Many
research activities are dedicated to solving technical network-
layer synchronization issues in power grids to ease integration
of renewables and improve power quality [32], [33]. To the
best of our knowledge, the study of a synchronized behavior
of users received little attention in the research literature.
III. MODEL AND PROBLEM STATEMENT
Microgrid. Consider a microgrid M with N agents. Each
agent in need of energy is either a consumer c ∈ C ⊆ N
with no generator or local storage, or a prosumer p ∈ P ⊆ N
with generation and / or storage capabilities. Microgrid has
a connection to an utility company, which is responsible for
maintaining the infrastructure of the grid (the power lines) and
keeping the system in a stable state by balancing supply and
demand in real time. The time is divided into discrete time
intervals T = {t1, t2, . . . } of a fixed length. For simplicity,
we assume that during t ∈ T , there is no change in supply
or demand for electricity, and thus the prices for selling,
buying, and balancing are fixed. The utility company sets a
price st dollars per MWh to meet the demand in case of
energy scarcity in the microgrid. The price includes the cost
of power generation during t, and the cost of network usage,
maintenance, and reinforcement of transmission infrastructure.
Backup Energy. Energy suppliers who provide electricity to
consumers and businesses buy energy from power stations.
To meet the demand, the operator can request more or less
generation a few hours ahead of real-time [34]. As part
of balancing, each power station makes a bid that reflects
what it is willing to be paid or to pay to be taken off
or moved on to the network. Network operator makes sure
enough backup power is available to cover for any potential
shortfall during t. Network operators may ask generators (e.g.,
wind farms, hydroelectric stations) and large consumers (local
energy-intensive industries) to come on or off the grid to help
balance supply and demand, or to manage grid constraints
(bottlenecks) in the network. The availability of the backup
power and the price of using it directly impacts st. The utility
company represented in a microgrid by a network operator
regulates these balancing costs.
Market and Agents. Each prosumer p ∈ P has a fixed
generating capacity during each time interval t. This is energy
Fig. 1: Consumer, prosumer and a synchronization game.
available directly from his PV or from his local storage. We
assume generation during t is reliable even for intermittent
energy sources. Electricity can not be stored in large quantities
and thus we assume local storage has very limited capacity.
We note that speculations such as filling the storage while the
energy is cheap and selling it at a higher price are generally
possible. A prosumer p sets the price for his generated energy
to spt < st. Both prosumers and consumers are rational and
selfish: the former use the system to maximize their own
profit, whereas the latter buy electricity at the lowest price.
Since setting prosumer prices to a higher value than st makes
consumers buy energy from the utility company, prosumers
are interested in artificially increasing st during times when
their energy resource is easily available despite its intermittent
nature.
Since energy supply from each generating station is fairly
constant or can be planned in advance, the market is tightest
when demand is highest. Consequently, high wholesale prices
correspond with high demand. A consumer c ∈ C buys energy
according to his private stochastic demand. There is certain
expected periodicity of the demand during the day including
morning and evening hours. Consumers buy energy at the
lowest price available. We assume energy trading has zero
time overhead. Transactions for each t are either put on a
public blockchain or in a private ledger maintained by the
utility company.
Synchronization Games. We refer to a situation when a
group of prosumers {pi} ⊂ P in a microgrid M act together
to create artificial energy demand with the goal to increase
the operator’s price st as a synchronization game. {pi} can
achieve mutual synchronization intentionally by means of time
synchronization protocols, or without being aware by running
malicious software controlled by an adversary.
Consider a synchronization game example depicted in
Fig. 1. Consider sufficient sun to fully cover energy demand
of each individual household in the region during consecutive
time slots t1, t2, . . . , tn. Consumer buys electricity on the
market to meet the demand dt and pays the price st during
time slot t. A wishful behavior of a prosumer p (called
friendly) is to meet his own demand dt first, sell any surplus
pt to neighboring consumers and possibly store qt energy into
local storage (pt and qt may be zero). The prosumer makes
pt·spt profit. Unfortunately for the prosumer, generator-friendly
sunny weather keeps energy price st (and thus also spt ) low.
Now what if prosumers unite their efforts to artificially stimu-
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
late the demand and reduce generation? Let each prosumer use
a fraction of time to buy energy on the market to meet a part
of his demand d1t (at a currently low price st) whilst filling
the local storage with generated energy gt. Another fraction of
time is used to generate d2t energy for his own needs, while
selling at from his local storage. The prosumer playing the
game should make sure he meets his total demand:
d1t + d2t = dt, (1)
and miminizes his loss in the game given by
d1t · st − at · spt → min . (2)
Ideally, the above difference equals zero, although a small
loss might still be worth playing the game depending on the
later reward. Given a large number of synchronized prosumers
running the same protocol, an artificially generated electricity
demand will be created, followed by a recovery to compensate
for the loss by selling electricity from the local storage. High
demand peaks will force the network operator to use additional
capacities (e.g., low-cost hydroelectric stations and high-cost
gas power) to balance supply and demand and stabilise the
network. A consequent increase of operator’s price st starting
from a time interval tk will increase profit margins for pro-
sumers and make them sell generated energy at higher price
during tk, tk+1, . . . tn. Note that a synchronization game can
be played for several consecutive time intervals to empty low-
cost backup energy resources. Since moving spinning reserves
on the grid comes with a fixed activation cost, increased st can
be expected to be kept high for a prolonged time period.
Repeated Synchronization Games. Running a synchroniza-
tion game for one round may not be worth the effort. Pro-
sumers may have to repeat the game for several rounds to
benefit from the system. Let’s assume the operator makes
a small increase ∆s to the price st after one successful
synchronization game at t. Although the prosumers playing
the game may hurry to increase their electricity prices spt+1,
they will also increase the probability that they won’t be able to
sell their energy during the next round due to high amounts of
cheap energy available on the market. Let therefore assume the
prosumers keep their price spt+1 = spt but decrease the interval
d1t+1 = d1t −∆d to minimize the game loss. Thus, in the next
round of synchronization games the prosumers minimize the
following loss function:
(d1t −∆d) · (st +∆s)− (at +∆a) · spt → min . (3)
If we assume that the rates of storing at and consuming
d1t energy are the same, we have the following dependency
between the operator’s energy cost increase ∆s and the length
of the synchronization interval ∆d:
d1t −∆d = d1t ·
x
x+∆s
. (4)
The sum x = st+ spt is constant. We conclude that the length
of the synchronization interval is inversely proportional to the
increase of the operator’s price. This makes synchronization
games possible only up to a certain limit bounded by the
synchronization accuracy between prosumers.
IV. SIMULATION
In this section, we use multi-agent learning to simulate
energy trading in a microgrid. In the following subsections,
we list parameters that drive our market model and show that
prosumers are able to synchronize their efforts to artificially
boost the demand and leverage the consequent increase of the
operator’s price to benefit from the system. The synchronized
behavior corresponds to a Nash equilibrium (NE) [30].
Network and Market Parameters. The simulated microgrid
comprises |P |= 5 prosumers, |C|= 20 consumers, and a
grid operator. Energy trading market is modeled as a 24h
game which repeats daily. We split the time into |t|= 15
minutes consecutive time intervals. During an interval tk, each
consumer buys energy on the market according to his private
demand curve, modeled as a sum of a fixed and a variable
components. The fixed component includes a morning and
an evening peak between 6 to 9 AM and 4 to 8 PM [35].
Each consumer has his own habits and thus the peaks are
generated at random within the typical times. The variable
part is sampled from a normal distribution with zero mean
and 15% variance. Consumers are interested in buying cheap
energy to meet their demand.
Prosumers extend consumer function with generation ca-
pabilities. Each prosumer has several solar panels capable of
generating between 245 and 345 Watt of power [36]. There
is a generation peak between 10 AM and 6PM throughout a
day different for each prosumer. Power generation can vary
up to 5% from one moment of time to another. Prosumer’s
generation curve is his private knowledge. For every time
interval tk prosumer independently picks one of two actions:
to either be friendly or to play a synchronization game. If a
prosumer decides to be friendly, he uses generated energy to
cover his own demand and sells the surplus at the market for
the best price he can. If the deal is successful, he increases the
price by 10% before the next transaction. If the price appears
to be too high and he fails to find a customer, he decreases the
price by 10%. Consumers never buy energy from a prosumer
if his proposition is more expensive than operator’s price. If
a prosumer decides to play a synchronization game, he does
neither earn nor loose any money but artificially increases the
demand in the network by the half of his own demand.
Network operator chooses the energy price stk+1
depending
on the new demand dtk+1
and is responsible for balancing sup-
ply and demand by turning on additional generation capacities
if necessary. We assume activation of backup energy sources
increases the energy price according to:
stk+1
= stk · (dtk+1
/dtk)
2. (5)
The increased price is kept stable for a prolonged time interval
(by the end of the day) if no higher demand peak arises.
This is reasonable, since most backup energy sources (e.g.,
gas stations) have high activation cost and can’t be shut down
immediately.
Q-Learning and Nash Equilibrium. We model prosumer
behavior as a Markov decision process [37] over a discrete
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
0 100 200 300 400 500
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
El
ec
tri
cit
y 
[k
W
h] consumer
prosumer 1
prosumer 2
0 100 200 300 400 500
0
1
2
3
El
ec
tri
cit
y 
[k
W
h] prosumer 1, potential
prosumer 2, potential
prosumer 1, generated
prosumer 2, generated
0 100 200 300 400 500
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
Pr
ice
 [u
ni
ts
 p
er
 k
W
]
prosumer 1
prosumer 2
operator
0 100 200 300 400 500
1000
0
1000
2000
Pr
of
it 
[u
ni
ts
]
consumer
prosumer 1
prosumer 2
0 100 200 300 400 500
Time [ticks, 1 tick = 15 minutes]
0
1
2
3
4
Sy
nc
. p
ro
su
m
er
s [
#]
Fig. 2: Market over 5 days on synthetic data (top down):
1) demand by two sample prosumers and one consumer, 2)
generation pattern by the same prosumers, 3) operator’s and
prosumers’ prices, 4) profit by the same agents, 5) number of
prosumers playing a synchronization game.
0 5 10 15 20 25
One day [0-24 hours]
0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Q-
va
lu
e
prosumer 1, friendly
prosumer 1, sync.game
prosumer 2, friendly
prosumer 2, sync.game
Fig. 3: Learned Q-matrix of two non-cooperative prosumers.
set of states during the day. In the training phase, prosumers
independently decide to either behave friendly or to play a syn-
chronization game. The reward is their daily profit given by the
difference between earned and spent money units. Prosumers
learn their optimal behavior by leveraging a reinforcement-
learning algorithm called Q-learning [38]. Despite a non-
cooperative nature of Q-learning, prosumers manage learning
to synchronize their actions to maximize the benefits. We use
default Q-learning parameters: learning rate α = 0.01, reward
decay γ = 0.9 and exploration rate ϵ = 0.1 while training. Q-
matrix of size (actions × states) stores decision values based
on the obtained accumulated rewards received over the history
of training. Q-matrix is updated as follows:
(6)
Q(tk+1, at+1)← Q(tk, at) + α · (rt+1
+ γ ·max
a
Q(tk+1, a)−Q(tk, at))
Learning optimal behavior is time-consuming. In our im-
plementation training phase lasts 520 days, mainly due to
randomness in the demand and energy generation, that make
the modeled environment stochastic as perceived by each
separate agent. Fig. 2 presents testing results over five con-
secutive days. The two top plots show the demand and the
generation pattern of three random agents: two prosumers
and a consumer. Each demand curve has two noisy peaks,
with the higher one being the daily peak. Power generation
is more efficient during the day and drops to zero towards
the night. Operator’s energy price is a function of the demand
and is thus low at night when demand is low. Prosumers try to
keep their prices as close to the operator’s price as possible.
The second plot from the bottom visualizes payments and
profits by the agents. When comparing the profitable hours
to the number of synchronized prosumers in the bottom plot,
it can be seen that no profit is generated in the first half of
the morning peak (and sometimes also the evening peak),
since during that time prosumers synchronize to artificially
increase the demand. This behavior can also be observed in the
learned Q-martix by the prosumers depicted in Fig. 3. In the
morning, between 5:30 to 7:00 AM and in the early evening,
sync. game behavior of prosumers is more beneficial than a
friendly strategy. The set of strategies learned by all prosumers
makes a NE, which however fails to maximize the social
welfare. Artificially generated high demand results in higher
energy prices paid by consumers, unnecessary activation of
backup energy sources by the network operator, and thus
higher environmental footprint, waste of resources, pollution
and global warming, which could be avoided.
V. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
We next discuss the research findings from this work and
how synchronization games can be detected and prevented.
What makes synchronization games possible? Every energy
supplier wants to raise the market price, just as every consumer
wants to lower it. While consumers are passive and only have
demand-side response at their disposal to lower the price, self-
ish prosumers may cause significantly more harm to both the
network and the market. Given large scale of microgrids, e.g.,
comprising a city or a town, with a potentially large number of
prosumers, synchronization seems easily achievable by means
of malicious software. The software may rely on standard
time synchronization protocols (e.g., NTP [39]) and promise
to increase revenues of prosumers by leveraging participatory
approach. Note that people collaborate more often than rational
minds would do as research results show [40].
Can we detect synchronization games? Smart meters play
a key role in operation and management of microgrids,
support energy trading, and may provide valuable data to
detect synchronization games. However, smart meters are often
imprecise [41], fail to deliver sensor readings at high rates
and in real-time (e.g., current smart meters often provide mea-
surement every 15 minutes [42]). Therefore, synchronization
games are difficult to detect in today’s P2P energy markets
under test. Prosumers could always use a fraction of the
reporting interval to artificially increase the demand and make
synchronization game detection generally hard. We envision
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
that utility companies could use machine learning algorithms
to detect synchronization games with high probability based
on smart meter reports and transaction lists.
Can we prevent synchronization games? Precise energy
metering, real-time reporting, high security standards will help
to avoid manipulations. If customers are charged real-time
prices, peak demand will be reduced, stimulating reduction
of generating capacity [21]. The tighter the reporting interval
of energy meters is, the more difficult it gets to stay undetected
for selfish prosumers. Syncronization errors and randomness
in generation, storage, and switching mechanisms contribute
to imperfect synchronization and, thus, flatten artificial power
peaks. Real-time metering and trading is needed to detect
and prevent synchronization games by minimizing all sorts
of data transmission, processing, and storage delays (e.g., in
public blockchains). Mechanism design and proper incentive
mechanisms play prominent role in preventing synchronization
games. For examples, monetizing demand-side response [16],
[10] could make synchronization games unattractive. LO3
Energy [17] tests this concept yet faces the difficulty to provide
evidence that the load shift was indeed on purpose and not by
chance. Another possibility to prevent synchronization games
is by making operator price st less sensitive to activation and
operation cost of spinning reserve and balancing mechanisms.
Finally, synchronization games can be forbidden in contractual
agreements between utility company and prosumers.
REFERENCES
[1] (2017) Electricity storage and renewables: Costs and markets to 2030.
International Renewable Energy Agency (IRENA). [Online]. Available:
https://bit.ly/2JY43sj
[2] I. S. Bayram, M. Z. Shakir, M. Abdallah, and K. Qaraqe, “A survey on
energy trading in smart grid,” in IEEE Global Conference onSignal and
Information Processing, 2014, pp. 258–262.
[3] M. Pilz and L. Al-Fagih, “Game-theoretic approaches to energy trading:
A survey,” CoRR, vol. abs/1702.02915, 2017.
[4] H. A. Carlson, “Spinning reserve peaking gas turbine,” Patent
US3151250A, 1964.
[5] J. Zhou, L. He, C. Li, Y. Cao, X. Liu, and Y. Geng, “What’s the
difference between traditional power grid and smart grid? ? from
dispatching perspective,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Asia-Pacific Power
and Energy Engineering Conference, 12 2013, pp. 1–6.
[6] Swanson’s law. Wikipedia. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2lgZL4Q
[7] M. Mihaylov, S. Jurado, N. Avellana, I. Razo-Zapata, K. Van Moffaert,
L. Arco, M. Bezunartea, I. Grau, A. Cañadas, and A. Nowé, “Scanergy:
A scalable and modular system for energy trading between prosumers,”
in Proc. of the Int. Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent
Systems, ser. AAMAS ’15, 2015, pp. 1917–1918.
[8] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” White
paper, 2008.
[9] J. Benet, “IPFS - content addressed, versioned, P2P file system,” CoRR,
vol. abs/1407.3561, 2014.
[10] C. A. C. G. and S. D., “Efficient energy research for effective energy
policy: strategy, design and methods,” in Energy for Society: 1st Energy
Research and Social Science Conference, 2017.
[11] M. N. Faqiry, R. Kundu, R. Mukherjee, S. Das, and A. Pahwa,
“Game theoretic model of energy trading strategies at equilibrium in
microgrids,” North American Power Symposium (NAPS), pp. 1–4, 2014.
[12] X. Xiao, C. Dai, Y. Li, C. Zhou, and L. Xiao, “Energy trading game for
microgrids using reinforcement learning,” in Int. Conf. on Game Theory
for Networks, 2017, pp. 131–140.
[13] (2016) Maintaining reliability in modern power systems. U.S.
Department of Energy. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2wBF4qS
[14] (2018) Can utilities afford to ignore demand-side response management?
Transform Website. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2KPnOD4
[15] C. Heuberger, I. Staffell, N. Shah, and D. N. Mac, “A systems ap-
proach to quantifying the value of power generation and energy storage
technologies in future electricity networks,” Computers and Chemical
Engineering, vol. 107, pp. 247–256, 2017.
[16] M. J. Fell and D. Shipworth, “Behaviour, practice - whatever? a theory-
agnostic framework for describing and informing demand-side response
publication type,” in ECEEE Summer Study, 2017, pp. 1603–1612.
[17] Lo3 energy website. [Online]. Available: https://lo3energy.com
[18] (2016) A pathway to the distributed grid (white paper). SolarCity Grid
Engineering. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/1TaFVE9
[19] D. A. Asaleye, M. Breen, and M. D. Murphy, “A decision support tool
for building integrated renewable energy microgrids connected to a smart
grid,” Energies, vol. 10, no. 11, 2017.
[20] A. Dolara, S. Leva, and G. Manzolini, “Comparison of different physical
models for PV power output prediction,” Solar Energy, vol. 119, pp. 83–
99, sep 2015.
[21] S. Stoft, Power System Economics: Designing Markets for Electricity.
Wiley, 2002. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2KzmZCk
[22] (2018) Power ledger (white paper). https://powerledger.io.
[23] (2016) M-payg: Next-generation mobile payments for rural electrifica-
tion. https://bit.ly/2ILqorK.
[24] Electron website. [Online]. Available: http://www.electron.org.uk
[25] R. Amir and V. Lambson, “On the effects of entry in cournot markets,”
Review of Economic Studies, vol. 67, no. 2, pp. 235–254, 2000.
[26] L. M. Ausubel and P. Cramton, “Vickrey auctions with reserve pricing,”
University of Maryland, Department of Economics - Peter Cramton,
Papers of Peter Cramton, 1999.
[27] A. Vasin, “Game-theoretic study of electricity market mechanisms,” in
Int. Conf. on Information Technology and Quantitative Management
(ITQM), vol. 31, 2014, pp. 124–132.
[28] J. Lee, J. Guo, J. Choi, and M. Zukerman, “Distributed energy trading
in microgrids: A game theoretic model and its equilibrium analysis,”
IEEE Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, 06 2015.
[29] L. Xiao, X. Xiao, C. Dai, M. Peng, L. Wang, and H. V. Poor,
“Reinforcement learning-based energy trading for microgrids,” CoRR,
vol. abs/1801.06285, 2018.
[30] J. Nash, “Non-cooperative games,” Annals of Mathematics, vol. 54,
no. 2, pp. 286–295, 1951.
[31] D. Koehler and N. E. Harvey, “Behavioral game theory,” Blackwell
Handbook of Judgment and Decision Making, pp. 485–503, 2004.
[32] L. Hadjidemetriou, E. Kyriakides, and F. Blaabjerg, “A robust synchro-
nization to enhance the power quality of renewable energy systems,”
Transactions on Industrial Electronics, vol. 62, pp. 4858–4868, 2015.
[33] T. A. Youssef, A. Salem, M. Elsied, A. M. Mabwe, M. A. Y. Abido, and
O. A. Mohammed, “Gps synchronization of smart distributed converters
for microgrid applications,” Energies, vol. 11, no. 4, 2018.
[34] How we balance the electricity transmission system. NationalGrid UK,
https://ngrid.com/2NjtXJg.
[35] (2018) New brunswick’s peak electricity challenge. Energie NB Power,
Website. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2KLvXMV
[36] (2018) How much energy does a solar panel actually produce?
EnergySage Website. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2HzJssZ
[37] M. L. Puterman, Markov Decision Processes: Discrete Stochastic Dy-
namic Programming, 1st ed. New York, NY, USA: John Wiley & Sons,
Inc., 1994.
[38] C. J. C. H. Watkins and P. Dayan, “Q-learning,” in Machine Learning,
1992, pp. 279–292.
[39] D. Mills, Computer Network Time Synchronization: The Network Time
Protocol, 2006.
[40] S. Gächter, Behavioral Game Theory, Blackwell Handbook of Judgment
and Decision Making, Chapter 24, 2008.
[41] Smart energy meters giving readings up to six times too high, study
finds. The Telegraph. [Online]. Available: https://bit.ly/2tWEUbz
[42] M. M. Aljamea, L. Brankovic, J. Gao, C. S. Iliopoulos, and M. Samiruz-
zaman, “Smart meter data analysis,” in Proceedings of the International
Conference on Internet of Things and Cloud Computing, ser. ICC ’16,
2016, pp. 22:1–22:6.
2018 IEEE International Conference on Communications, Control, and Computing Technologies for Smart Grids (SmartGridComm)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.