Why Is CryptoKitties (Not) Gambling?
Why Is CryptoKitties (Not) Gambling?
Alesja Serada
alesja.serada@gmail.com
University of Vaasa
Vaasa, Finland
Figure 1: Cat Codex in the game CryptoKitties.
ABSTRACT
CryptoKitties (Axiom Zen 2017) is a pioneering blockchain-based
game that disrupts the ‘classic game model’ [7] [8] [9] in a way that
turns it into a gambling web application. As previous research has
shown, its mechanics are almost exclusively based on chance [13],
and the rest is mostly speculation with game assets [11]. This raises
the question whether this game requires any skill, such as strategic
planning. In my case study, I revisit the game system and perform
a practice of playing it to differentiate between unpredictable (or
“aleatory”, as in [6] and decision-making points in the game. I argue
that mapping the journey of a player should complement analysis
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta
© 2020 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8807-8/20/09. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402985
of the game system to assess the balance between skill and chance
in a better-informed manner.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Software and its engineering → Interactive games; • Infor-
mation systems→Massively multiplayer online games; •Applied
computing → Computer games.
KEYWORDS
blockchain, cryptocurrencies, gambling, browser games, Ethereum,
crypto games
ACM Reference Format:
Alesja Serada. 2020. Why Is CryptoKitties (Not) Gambling?. In International
Conference on the Foundations of Digital Games (FDG ’20), September 15–18,
2020, Bugibba, Malta. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages. https://doi.org/10.
1145/3402942.3402985
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402985
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402985
https://doi.org/10.1145/3402942.3402985
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3402942.3402985&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2020-09-17
FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta Alesja Serada
1 ‘CRYPTO GAMES’ AS THE LATEST FORM
OF GAMBLING
Gambling typically means wagering something of value on an event
with an unpredictable outcome [4]. Uncertainty of outcome has al-
ways been present in games [3] [6], which also means that playing
games has always invited manifold forms of gambling and betting.
Most lately, chance mechanics in digital games and betting prac-
tices around them have led to the “gamblification” of sports and
competitive video games [12]. Gambling has undergone several
circles of marginalization and normalization in modernized soci-
eties [1]. It is commonly agreed that "luck is seen often as a central
way to make games fair" [6]. ‘Democratic’ games of chance pro-
vide equal opportunities to all participants, regardless of their skill
and social status. Recent development of blockchain technologies
and their application to games provide an opportunity to present
game algorithms as transparent and even more ‘fair’ [10]. However,
such games are often criticized for lack of the actual gameplay
and speculative tendencies [11], as well as for their close ties to
gambling. In general, gambling can be detrimental to the wellbeing
of players and to economies in general (Roger Caillois even labels
it “the cancer of economies” [1]).
One of the best known blockchain-based games bases on chance
mechanics is CryptoKitties, a browser game on the Ethereum plat-
form published by Axiom Zen in 2017 [2]. Similar mechanics are
present inmany pet breeding simulators, such as Ovipets (IDZTECH
2011) and Dragon City (Social Point 2012), not to mention the Poke-
mon franchise. The principal difference is the fee paid to breed
virtual pets (0.008ETH for the most time of the game’s existence).
This fee is paid to execute a ’smart contract’ that eventually leads
to the birth of a new ‘kitty’ with a randomly assigned unique set
of attributes, such as shape and color of its body parts. A Wild
Element is a special attribute only present in some ’kitties’: it adds
new parts such as horns, wings or an extra eye. A combination of
two attributes may result in a ’mutation’, when a new attribute of a
higher level presents itself: this may increase the ’kitty’s’ value. ‘Kit-
ties’ are unique non-fungible Ethereum tokens kept in an Ethereum
wallet (usually Metamask or the company’s own wallet Dapper).
Players can breed, sell, and buy ‘kitties’, which constitutes three
meaningful choices available within the game system. There is also
free play unrestrained by game rules; it happens on external plat-
forms for trading and communication (OpenSea, Discord, Twitter
and other less used digital spaces).
2 STRATEGIC GOALS IN CRYPTOKITTIES
Are CryptoKitties gambling? Based on a set of criteria derived from
Griffiths [4] [5], Scholten et al. conclude that CryptoKitties, as well
as other Ethereum-based games, fit the definition of gambling and
should be supervised as such [13]. However, what else is there,
apart from unpredictability? Game designers commonly assess
games based on prevalence of either chance or skill - an established
division to which Jesper Juul also adds the third mechanic of labor
[9]. Labor, in the case of blockchain games, is performed by miners
who enable transactions and calculation of the attributes of new
tokens on the blockchain. Next, we will look at applications of skill
in the game.
The game can be described as a player’s journey between ‘aleatory’
points [6] – unpredictable events that change the course of the game
– and decision-making points such as choosing partners for breed-
ing. For instance, it is player’s decision how to price a kitty on a
peer-to-peer market. The act of breeding that follows is a typical
‘aleatory’ point with an uncertain outcome: the new ’kitty’ may or
may not be valuable enough to sell it above the price of its breeding.
The probability of a desirable mutation is approximately 7% per
cent or less for the highest-level attributes. The probability of in-
heriting an attribute already present in parents is much higher, but
is still not certain, as it depends on their complete genetic makeup:
to put it simply, eight instances of ‘genes’ coded on blockchain are
combined and randomized for each attribute. As in the updated
definition of games of luck by Johnson, "player actions do not af-
fect the outcome” [6], and the main game mechanic does not differ
much from a slot machine in this regard at this particular point, as
Scholten et al. observe [13].
As an additional technique of engagement, the game uses a
well-known mechanic of completing a collection, widely used in
playable media from children’s sticker books to, again, Pokémon.
The ”sticker book” of the game is the Cat Codex – a web page with
blank spaces that represent every possible attribute in the game
(Figure 1). After mastering the game system and learning genealogy
and relative scarcity of different genes and attributes, the player
might feel the urge to complete their collection of ‘kitties’ in the
same way a jigsaw puzzle is completed. This final goal is optional;
Juul conceptualizes the same urge in A Casual Revolution as “the
satisfaction of moving the final piece, of finishing the puzzle” [8].
CryptoKitties deviates from the commonly acknowledged un-
derstanding of a game [7] [8] [9] in one crucial aspect: the game
does not have a final goal. It shares this feature with sandbox games
and social games such as farming games and pet breeding simula-
tors, but also, World of Warcraft and other roleplaying games [3].
Deciphered from the transparent design and the code of the game
system, as initially programmed in ‘smart contracts’, the ultimate
goal of the game would be to breed “the Queen Bee”: a kitty which
attributes are all of the highest level. As the game system itself is
static – in fact, nothing moves or changes during the play, apart
from new ‘kitties’ coming into existence and maybe changing their
owners, – the game will not end for any player after breeding the
Queen Bee, and this event will not influence any other element
of the game. Players, who are free at goal setting, may not even
acknowledge this possibility; it is a conscious decision they make
themselves based on their own analytical skills applied to the game
system or communication with fellow players. The Queen Bee can
be bred any number of times, and each token will be unique and
of high value for other players, although its value will diminish if
thousands of similar tokens are created, which is highly improbable
but generally possible.
3 HOW CRYPTOKITTIES ARE ACTUALLY
PLAYED
As stated previously, the game only affords three actions: buying,
selling and breeding (creating new digital ‘kitties’). When focus-
ing solely on these actions, gambling [13] and speculation [11]
can be observed: cryptocurrency is invested in breeding ‘kitties’
Why Is CryptoKitties (Not) Gambling? FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta
in hope to randomly obtain a valuable one, and then players trade
them on speculative open markets. These actions are recorded in
the immutable ledger of a blockchain-based game, and researchers
base their conclusions on their analysis of these records. However,
one cannot fully understand what is happening in the game from
“digital traces” and descriptions of the game. In this section, I will de-
scribe one game session of playing CryptoKitties as a performative
practice, which will include both ‘aleatory points’ and decision-
making. This is my own game session; although it relies on the
official rules of the game, other players may play in different ways
and set different goals. Owing much to the collectible games genre,
CryptoKitties encourage their players to get at least one ‘kitty’ with
each existing attribute by filling the Cat Codex, as can be seen in
Figure 1. The game does not reward players for it, it just feels like
‘completion’ [8], which places this type of reward outside of the
scope of strictly ludological approach. Many players of the game
complete the Cat Codex – collect a “complete genome”, as it is
called in the community: this quest is not particularly difficult, as
it is only a matter of the player’s budget. After a player clicks on
the blank space in the Cat Codex, the game redirects them to the
Marketplace where they can purchase any kitty with any particu-
lar trait in two clicks for a price below the cost of its breeding. A
more challenging approach is to fill the Cat Codex with kitties that
have Gems - this means, one of the first 500 kitties who acquired a
certain attribute as a result of a mutation. The total Gem count is
displayed in the codex with the multipurpose Chrome extension
CKBox, a commonly used, community-built interface layer that
provides players with complete information on the game system.
There are no ‘leaderboards’ in the game itself, but a player can check
their rank in the game based on the Gem count at another external
service, KittyHelper. Again, the Gem count can be increased by
simply buying more kitties freely available on the market. ‘Kitties’
with Gems are more expensive - the lowest level Gem, the blue
Lapis, raises the kitty’s price somewhere around ETH 0,01 or higher
(often still very close to the net cost of breeding it). For a not par-
ticularly wealthy player, it provides an interesting challenge (as in
the academic understanding of a game) to occasionally fetch Lapis
kitties priced below ETH 0,01 on the market (although a bot would
still do it better, and such bots exist). In my case, it is more of an
aesthetic challenge to complete the set with the kitties I personally
prefer for no other rational reason than aesthetic pleasure. As it can
be seen in the Figure 1, the only attribute I am missing in the Wild
Element set is “foghornpawhorn”. This relatively scarce attribute
looks like a cock’s tail on a kitty. There are two common ways to
obtain such a kitty: to buy it on the market or to breed one yourself.
As I learned from sources like CKBox, KittyHelper among other
sources, I need a Featherbrain and a Daemongwings to breed a
unique Lapis Foghornpawhorn – the type of kitty I was missing
from my desired set. Its generation also matters, as it drastically in-
fluences the price of a kitty – since rarer first generation kitties are
valued at a much higher price on the market than latter generation
kitties. I have a Generation 3 Lapis Featherbrain already, which is a
relatively valuable kitty – it is reasonably rare, low generation, and
I bought it for just 0.01 ETH, which I perceive it as cheap. My Dae-
monwings kitties are Generation 5 or older, which makes them an
unsuitable pair for a Generation 3 Featherbrain, because offspring
from Generation 3 and Generation 5 kitties would be Generation
6 – too much to be of value. I turn to the Marketplace to look for
a Generation 3 Daemonwings that I could breed with for not too
much ETH. The resulting kitty would be Generation 4, which is
somehow valuable and probably can even sell with profit. After
I find a suitable candidate, by turning to KittyHelper, I learn that
the chance to get a Foghornpawhorn mutation from two kitties
with appropriate dominant genes is around 14%. This is the stan-
dard fixed probability of a level 3 mutation under these conditions.
Probability of the highest-level mutation is around 14%. The proba-
bility may be higher if the “parents” have more than one required
“gene” out of four, but this is very rare. Kitties with all four identical
genes for one specific attribute are called “pure”, and they are a
moderately valuable collectible in some contexts. Even though my
actual chances to get a valuable kitty are low, I still decide to take
the risk and breed with this kitty for 0,009ETH, a fee which goes
to its owner, plus a transaction fee of 0,008ETH, which I pay to
‘miners’ to generate a random new kitty. I also hope that the kitty
will inherit the environment attribute MyParade, because, based
on my previous experience, kitties with interesting environments
tend to sell well even if they are of a higher generation (high-level
attributes are valuable, but high-generation kitties are valueless).
There are two more mutations possible with a 14% probability:
Hacker eyes and Splat pattern. I am not going for them specifically,
but it still would be nice to get any of them, as it would usually raise
the price of a kitty above the cost for its creation. Unfortunately,
the resulting kitty has no promising attributes whatsoever, which
would be prized in the marketplace, and can only be sold at a very
low ‘floor price’. For me, it means the loss of the most of 0,017ETH,
which is not that much, but still equals to around a quarter of a
US dollar at the time of playing. Let us return to my initial goal
of completing the Wild Element collection. I still have some Ether
from my previous, more successful operations, in my crypt wallet
Metamask, so I go to the Marketplace again and find a Foghorn-
pawhorn that I like. In addition to the Foghornpawhorn attribute,
this kitty is depicted as sitting in a box, which is another attribute,
the Tinybox environment. As a result, the kitty has one peculiar
feature: its cock’s tail is not visible, because the box environment
covers it. It also has a Lapis gem for the mutation of the pattern
Splat, which adds to its value on the market. I pay 0.025ETH for it,
which is not cheap, by my standards, but it leaves me satisfied, as
I believe that the sum of the quality of this kitty makes it “more
unique” than a regular one. My Wild Element collection is now
complete.
4 CONCLUSION
Like other pet breeding simulators, CryptoKitties does not set ex-
plicit goals for the player. Like a slot machine, it requires input of
small sums of the cryptocurrency Ether to generate new ‘kitties’
of random value. This part of the game experience is an example
of almost pure ‘alea’ [1] – a game of chance, owing its appeal to
unpredictability of gameplay [6]. In additional to this gambling-like
experience, players can set their own goals and make decisions
only partially afforded or assisted by the official game system. With
my analysis, I have demonstrated how mechanics of chance in the
game are complemented by strategic breeding and trading. These
FDG ’20, September 15–18, 2020, Bugibba, Malta Alesja Serada
activities require a very specific knowledge of the game and some-
times a skillset of a professional cryptocurrency trader. Players
use a number of add-ons and third party resources such as CKBox
and KittyHelper to quickly obtain important information about
attributes of ‘kitties’ that is missing in the official interface. How-
ever, these skills of playing a ‘crypto game’ are rarely rewarded:
success is still predominately based on chance, and the marketplace
remains unpredictable. Greg Costikyan describes tic-tac-toe as an
example of a game without uncertainty [3]. For certain tasks, there
is little uncertainty in the outcome of CryptoKitties for a player
with enough resources: such player can complete almost any goal
in the game by simply investing more Ether. This is where the gam-
bling aspect may transferring Ether into the ‘kitty slot machine’.
Yet, there is still enough strategic leeway between easily observ-
able ‘aleatory points’ for a game of skill. Meaningful practices of
playing the game emerge from deliberate choices of its players,
their exploratory thrust or, in my described case, ‘the urge of com-
pletion’. By combining both gambling-like and strategic elements,
CryptoKitties has gamified the Ethereum platform, which has made
it a noticeable factor in adoption of blockchain technologies.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authorwishes to thank Jori Grym for consulting and thoroughly
commenting on the draft of this paper.
REFERENCES
[1] Roger Caillois. 1961. Man, Play, and Games. University of Illinois Press.
[2] Usman W. Chohan. 2017. The Leisures of Blockchains: Exploratory Analysis.
SSRN Electronic Journal (2017). https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084411
[3] Greg Costikyan. 2013. Uncertainty in Games. MIT Press.
[4] Jeffrey L. Derevensky and Mark D. Griffiths. 2019. CONVERGENCE BETWEEN
GAMBLING AND GAMING: DOES THE GAMBLING AND GAMING INDUSTRY
HAVE A RESPONSIBILITY IN PROTECTING THE CONSUMER? Gaming Law
Review 23, 9 (Nov. 2019), 633–639. https://doi.org/10.1089/glr2.2019.2397
[5] Mark D Griffiths. 2019. Loot box buying among adolescent gamers: A cause for
concern? Education and Health 37, 3 (2019), 63–66.
[6] Mark R. Johnson. 2020. The Unpredictability of Gameplay. Bloomsbury Academic.
[7] Jesper Juul. 2003. The Game, the Player, the World: Looking for a Heart of
Gameness. In Level Up: Digital Games Research Conference Proceedings. Utrecht
University, Utrecht, 30–45. https://www.jesperjuul.net/text/gameplayerworld/
[8] Jesper Juul. 2012. A Casual Revolution. MIT Press.
[9] Jesper Juul. 2013. The Art of Failure: An Essay on the Pain of Playing Video Games.
MIT Press.
[10] Daniel Kraft. 2019. Game-Theoretic Randomness for Blockchain Games. arXiv
(Jan. 2019). http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.06285 arXiv: 1901.06285.
[11] Jaehwan Lee, Byungjoon Yoo, andMoonkyoung Jang. 2019. Is a Blockchain-Based
Game a Game for Fun, or Is It a Tool for Speculation? An Empirical Analysis of
Player Behavior in Crypokitties. In The Ecosystem of e-Business: Technologies,
Stakeholders, and Connections. Lecture Notes in Business Information Processing.
Vol. 357. Springer.
[12] Joseph Macey and Juho Hamari. 2018. Investigating relationships between video
gaming, spectating esports, and gambling. Computers in Human Behavior 80
(March 2018), 344–353. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2017.11.027
[13] Oliver James Scholten, Nathan Gerard Jayy Hughes, Sebastian Deterding, Anders
Drachen, James AlfredWalker, and David Zendle. 2019. Ethereum Crypto-Games:
Mechanics, Prevalence, and Gambling Similarities. In Proceedings of the Annual
Symposium on Computer-Human Interaction in Play. ACM, Barcelona Spain, 379–
389. https://doi.org/10.1145/3311350.3347178
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3084411
https://doi.org/10.1089/glr2.2019.2397
https://www.jesperjuul.net/text/gameplayerworld/
http://arxiv.org/abs/1901.06285
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2017.11.027
https://doi.org/10.1145/3311350.3347178
	Abstract
	1 ‘Crypto Games’ as the Latest Form of Gambling
	2 Strategic Goals in CryptoKitties
	3 How CryptoKitties Are Actually Played
	4 Conclusion
	Acknowledgments
	References