Divergent applications of Blockchain Security: A Survey
2021 Second International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) 
978-1-6654-4415-6/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE                              212 
Divergent applications of Blockchain Security: A 
Survey 
 
Vakul Sharma 
Dept. of Comp. Science & Engineering 
Dr. B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar, 
Punjab-144011, India  
vakulsharma50@gmail.com 
Lalit Kumar Awasthi  
Dept. of Comp. Science & Engineering 
Dr. B R Ambedkar National Institute of Technology Jalandhar,  
Punjab-144011, India  
director@nitj.ac.in 
Abstract— The way people communicate and share 
information is changed with the use of the internet. Almost 
everything is digitalized from communication, payments, 
shopping, and learning. Due to which a massive amount of data 
is generated and stored on centralized servers making a single 
point of failure and a single point to attack. Through this paper, 
we discuss and analyze how blockchain is not only used for 
cryptocurrency transactions but can also provide DLT 
(decentralized ledger technology) and security services in other 
fields. The way blockchain technology finds its applications in 
emerging fields like IoT, autonomous vehicles, smart toll, energy 
trading, games, decentralized video streaming, their future 
research directions, and limitations are discussed by us in this 
paper. 
Keywords— Blockchain, Data Integrity, Authentication, 
Verification, Cryptocurrency, Hash, DLT, DDOS, Digital 
Fingerprint, Consensus Algorithm. 
I. INTRODUCTION  
A blockchain is a kind of database that makes it different 
from a traditional database in the way it stores data. In 
blockchains, data is stored in blocks, which are then linked 
together forming a chain of blocks. The most popular 
application of blockchain is to use blockchain as a transaction 
ledger but it can also store other types of data as well. If it is 
a cryptocurrency blockchain, a ledger can represent any 
record, including transaction records [1]. Blockchain 
technology has the capability to entirely transform the world. 
It completely mitigates the disadvantages of a centralized 
system. In a centralized system, every participating entity 
follows one network owner. The central owner keeps data 
that other users can access as well as user information. A 
centralized framework is simple to set up and can be built 
quickly. Every transaction on Blockchain is checked and 
verified by the node, which is a computer that is a participant 
in the specific Blockchain network. Blockchain rose to 
prominence after ‘Satoshi Nakamoto' published his research 
on ‘Bitcoin'. It began as a distributed storage technology that 
provided services to largely decentralized registers while also 
providing security mechanisms for authentication, 
authorization, and verification of created data. Ethereum and 
Bitcoin are the best implementations of blockchain 
technology to date, but there is still much room for 
improvement and we cannot say that Bitcoin and Ethereum 
are the final and only applications of Blockchain technology 
[1][2].  
In this paper, we discuss the most recent stages in 
development practices involving blockchain technology. The 
following section will present an overview of blockchain 
technology, its architecture followed by the literature survey 
in section 3. In Section 4, we discuss an analysis of the 
literature survey, and finally, we examine the research gap 
including risks, threats, and varied security issues related to 
it, and provide solutions in these regards in Section 5. 
 
List of Abbreviations 
 
POS              Proof of Stake 
POW             Proof of Work 
POE              Proof of Energy 
DDOS           Distributed Denial of Service 
P2P               Peer-To-Peer 
DLT              Distributed Ledger Technology 
PBFT            Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance 
IoT                Internet of Things 
 
 
II. OVERVIEW OF BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY 
A.  Components of Blockchain  architecture 
   Node:  A node can simply be a computer system in the 
network. Blockchain uses a p2p network so every node in the 
network is connected forming a distributed network of nodes 
having equal privileges. The work of every single node is to 
process and verify the transactions [3].  
   Transactions: Transactions are the most basic and 
smallest component of blockchain.  These are the only 
reasons we are using blockchain technology so that we can 
store, assess, and retrieve the already happened transactions.  
A transaction can simply be a payment record that contains 
the sender's address, recipient’s address, a time-stamp when 
the transaction happened, and the amount [3]. 
   Block: A single block in the blockchain contains a block 
version number that indicates the policies utilized for block 
validation. A timestamp that indicates when that particular 
block was created. nBits, this gives the threshold target for a 
valid block hash. Nonce, a 4-Bytefield that usually starts with 
0 and increases with every subsequent hash calculation. So, 
before verifying the block the nonce is calculated and the 
node which calculates the nonce first is rewarded when all 
other participating nodes verify this work. Merkle tree root 
hash: This is computed from all the transactions present in the 
block. It acts as a condensed digital fingerprint for the block. 
Any modification to any of the transactions present in the 
block results in the root hash being modified. Previous block 
hash, in this field the hash of the previous block which is 
already a verified block in the blockchain is written. This 
helps the blocks to form a chain of blocks and provides 
integrity to the chain. For example, block 'n' would contain 
the hash of block 'n-1' in this field where 'n' is an integer 
sequence number. The current block hash is the hash 
20
21
 2
nd
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 S
ec
ur
e 
C
yb
er
 C
om
pu
tin
g 
an
d 
C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
ns
 (I
C
SC
C
C
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
44
15
-6
/2
0/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
SC
C
C
51
82
3.
20
21
.9
47
80
94
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:14:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 Second International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) 
213 
 
calculated from all the transactions that block holds including 
the hash of the previous block [3].  
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Block Structure 
B. How does blockchain work? 
 Let us consider an example to elaborate the working of 
Blockchain, suppose one person wants to send money to 
another person, now sending money involves a simple 
transaction, now this simple transaction is stored in a block 
along with the other transactions in the block, this block has 
a specific size. The size of the block in Bitcoin is fixed to 2 
Mega Byte. When the block is completely filled, it gets 
distributed to every other node on the network [4]. When the 
other nodes on the network receive a new node, they verify it 
with the help of some consensus algorithm. In bitcoin-related 
terminology, this is referred to as "Proof of work" and "Proof 
of stake" in the context of Ethereum 2.0. The time taken for 
the entire process depends upon the blockchain (approx. 10 
minutes for bitcoin and few minutes for Ethereum) [3]. In the 
case of the bitcoin blockchain the miners are provided with a 
mathematical problem like a puzzle and whichever node or 
miner is able to solve that puzzle first verifies the transaction 
which aids that particular miner to mine a block. As more and 
more blocks are mined this puzzle gets tough. The mined 
block is then appended to the main chain of blocks. As soon 
as the block gets placed on the main network’s chain, it is 
then impossible to change it providing data integrity. 
C. Types of Blockchain 
       There are primarily three types of blockchain 
technologies listed below:  
Public blockchain: In this type of blockchain anyone 
interested to be a part of the network can participate and can 
become a validator node. Example: Bitcoin. 
                                
 
 
Fig. 2. Chain of Blocks showing how a block is linked to its previous block 
 
         
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:14:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 Second International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) 
214 
 
         Consortium blockchain: This type lies between the 
public and private blockchains where the group or the 
organization who created the network has control over the 
nodes and can choose to keep the blockchain open or private. 
Example: Hyperledger. 
         Private Blockchain: In this type of blockchain not all 
nodes are allowed to take part in the consensus or verification 
process. The blockchain is kept private within the 
organization and a central authority has control. Example: 
Ripple.  
III. LITERATURE SURVEY 
In this section, we discuss the latest advancements in 
blockchain technology over traditional methods. The study is 
divided into subcategories based on the recent use-cases of 
blockchain. Also, how and where the blockchain technology 
fits best in 2019 and 2020. 
  The first subcategory will discuss how blockchain can 
remove the middlemen from any real-world transaction and 
save the fee. Then, next, we discuss how the energy generated 
from the solar panels can be shared efficiently and incentives 
can be earned from it. Then, how the blockchain network can 
be prevented from DDOS attacks. IoT based distributed 
applications are next discussed. In the next subcatageory we 
discuss how autonomous vehicles can share their data 
securely, then decentralized games, streaming platforms, and 
lastly decentralized certificate verification system. 
A. Smart Toll 
     Since now we have seen the use of autonomous toll 
systems equipped with RFID cards (Radio Frequency 
Identification) which collect the toll amount when a vehicle 
is passed through the toll booth, the sensors sense the RFID 
card automatically or a person scans the FT (FASTag) using 
a scanner device [1]. The data of any vehicle passing through 
the toll plaza is stored in a centralized database. With the 
Smart Toll [2], a decentralized, scalable, and secure way to 
share data in an intelligent vehicular network is discussed by 
using blockchain technology as a reliable way for toll 
payments. Using blockchain for storing the transactions of 
vehicle passing and paying the toll at the booth, and also 
removing the middlemen (debit and credit card) fee of about 
2% - 3% [2]. 
B. Energy Trading 
     The traditional method of storage and supply of power 
is from power grids but by combining IoT (internet of things) 
and DLT (distributed ledger technology) we can have 
decentralized power generation and supply. The electrical 
power generated and stored with the help of solar panels 
mounted on roofs of houses can be used for trading the saved 
energy and the owner can earn incentives. Every house 
participating in trading will be like a peer on the network and 
the network formed using blockchain technology will be a 
p2p network [3]. The energy wastage and low utilization of 
the network are there but with the use of blockchain and smart 
contracts collectively we can do asynchronous settlements 
[4]. This will improve the trust, better price of energy, and a 
more reliable energy internet system. 
C. Anti-D Chain: DDOS detection in blockchain 
     The traditional DDOS detection methods and 
algorithms were mainly for the detection in a centralized 
environment but the blockchain works on the decentralized 
network thus previously known methods fail here. Even the 
machine learning approaches for DDOS attack detection fail. 
 
     
 
Fig. 3. Asynchronous Transaction Settlement [9] 
 
     Anti-D Chain [5] a new approach for detection of 
DDOS attacks is discussed which is based on ensemble 
learning. Here, RF (Random Forest) and AdaBoost for 
ensemble learning strategy along with lightweight classifiers 
like ID3 and CART is used. So, in P2P networks Anti-D 
chain improves the efficiency and correctness for detecting a 
DDOS attack by giving better results in some important 
indicators (such as ROC curve, Recall, F-Score, FPR, TPR, 
and Precision). 
D. Edgence: IoT based distributed application 
     The traditional IoT network works on a centralized 
server, where all the data is collected and processed to gain 
insights. This makes the IoT network vulnerable to cyber-
attacks like DDOS to disrupt the network, or to gain 
unauthorized access, or to steal and modify the recorded data. 
With Edgence (EDGe + intelligENCE) [6] where edge clouds 
are used to access the IoT devices and then using the 
blockchain to provide security by making the data tamper-
proof, encrypted, transparent as previous IoT data 
transactions can be reviewed, increased trust as it will follow 
consensus before finalizing any data on the blockchain and is 
decentralized. 
E. Intelligent Vehicular Network (IVN) 
     The autonomous vehicles [6] have taken over the 
conventional vehicles, the so-called intelligent autonomous 
self-driving vehicles are there which let the passenger reach 
his destination without any driver driving the car i.e driverless 
vehicles. The problem lies in the network they use to share 
such information any change in the information can cause 
serious issues. Intelligent vehicular network (IVN) [7] uses 
the tri-blockchain concept to share and communicate with 
other autonomous vehicles. Different blockchain servers are     
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:14:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 Second International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) 
215 
 
used which provides dynamic information and thus forming 
a reliable network in case of emergencies. 
F. Discover DaVinci 
     Games we play are centralized and many security 
issues are there, using blockchains the money or the tokens 
can be stored on the smart contracts instead of giving it to any 
untrusted middlemen.  Discover DaVinci [8] is a game built 
on blockchain technology that takes the trust and security of 
its players to a new level. Its focus is on teaching blockchain 
technology using games. 
G. Dtube: Decentralized Video Streaming 
     The way we have been using the video streaming 
platforms like Youtube, NetFlix, Hotstar, and many more, 
there is always a central authority who is the in-charge of 
anything we see and what we can upload i.e lack of open 
internet. In this system lack of incentives, trust, security, and 
limited access capacity can be seen. Dtube [9] helps to make 
this network decentralized and uploading videos using 
InterPlanetary File System (IPFS), so no one can remove your 
content and you have full control over your videos. You can 
make your uploaded videos private or public but once 
uploaded it can’t be erased. 
H. SkillCheck: A Certification System 
     The verification of documents and certificates is a 
major issue even today. It takes a couple of days to verify and 
validate documents. The staff at educational institutes and 
even recruiters at multinational companies usually take days 
for verifying the certificates of the appliers whether they are 
fake or genuine. It is so time-consuming and wastage of 
human labor and in return the validators get nothing. With 
SkillCheck [10], incentives are provided to the validators in 
the form of tokens. They validate the certificates and 
documents and put a verified copy over the blockchain. The 
problem of decentralizing the data was already solved before 
incorporating the blockchain but the idea of giving incentives 
was still limited. 
IV. ANALYSIS OF LITERATURE 
     The literature referred to study the recent 
advancements and different approaches of blockchain 
technology in various recent publications we analyze that 
most of the advancements are implementing ‘proof of work’ 
(POW) and ‘proof of stake’ (POS) consensus. 
      The subcategory A, D, E, and F uses proof of work 
consensus and the remaining subcategories use POS and 
proof of energy consensus. The Smart Toll [2] uses POW to 
validate the toll fee transactions. Energy Trading [4] uses 
proof of energy to reach a consensus. EDgence [6] uses proof 
of work consensus to validate whether the DDOS attack 
happened or not.  
A comparative analysis is shown in Table 1 which shows 
the problems addressed, consensus algorithms used, and the 
limitations in the work done. The table shows referred 
literature that uses many other consensus algorithms like 
Proof of Identity, Proof of Existence, Proof of Honesty, 
Delegated Proof of Contribution, Proof of Knowledge, and 
Proof of Replication and Retrievability. Some of these 
consensus algorithms do not ensure decentralization and 
some of them are still not implemented.       
                   
 
 
Fig. 4. Different Consensus Algorithms used in recent blockchain use-
cases. 
V. RESEARCH GAPS 
After reviewing and establishing a survey of blockchain 
technology and its recent use cases, we arrive at a position 
where we can demonstrate some gaps in building up of the 
referenced literature, the gaps noticed are as follows: 
• In most of the referred researches, proof of work consensus 
is used which makes the efficiency of the whole system low 
as in the proof of work to validate every block a 
computation is needed to be done by every node on the 
network thus wasting system resources and time of 
validators. 
• Validation of nodes and adding them to the blockchain is 
taking more than 5 minutes. 
• Both public and private clouds are used together, making 
the system less efficient. 
• Such consensus algorithms are used which does not 
guarantee decentralization. 
• No fundamental study is performed before implementing 
permissioned or permissionless blockchains. Thus, 
reducing efficiency. 
• Consensus like proof of energy, proof of concept, proof of 
identity is still having security issues. 
• Due to low validators in the network, the systems are 
vulnerable to 51% attacks. 
• Using pubic blockchains trust issues and user personal data 
leakage is still an issue.    
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:14:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 Second International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) 
216 
 
TABLE 1.  Comparison of related work based on recent applications of blockchain technology.
 Work         Publisher         Problem Addressed 
Consensus 
Algorithm 
       Limitation 
(Tanveer,Has
nain Javaid, 
2019) 
Springer       
Debit card and credit card 
(middlemen) fee. 
Proof of Work 
No incentives are given to the 
validators and users. 
(Ting Li, Wei 
Zhang, 2019) 
     IEEE 
P2P energy trading, a distributed 
scheme with grid control. 
Proof of Energy 
Energy wastage and less 
reliable in energy transaction 
settlements. 
(S. Ai, D. Hu, 
T. Zhang, 
2020) 
     IEEE 
Energy Internet, a transaction 
settlement system. 
Proof of Energy 
Higher processing time of 
asynchronous transaction 
settlement 
(B.Jia and Y. 
Liang, 2020) 
   IEEE 
DDOS attack detection with 
ensemble learning. 
Proof of Work 
Implemented only on an 
artificial blockchain. 
(M. Singh, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Intelligent vehicular network for 
trust issues in autonomous cars. 
  Proof of Work 
Costly, as camera, mic, and 
other sensors need to be 
installed on every turn on the 
road. 
(T. V. Doan, 
T. D. Pham, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Content and Traffic 
Centralization in video 
streaming services. 
Proof of Stake 
More IP hops due to distant 
servers which makes it slow and 
less reliable. 
(Regio A. 
Michelin, 
Ahmed, 2020) 
   IEEE 
Integrity establishment of video 
from untrusted sources. 
Proof of Integrity 
Increasing more cameras per 
gateway increases latency. 
(Ajay Kumar, 
Sandhya, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Making payments private, 
privacy issues, and incentives. 
Proof of Existence 
Overhead of accessing both 
private as well as a public 
blockchain. 
(Syed, 
Danish, 
Kaiwen, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Intelligent Privacy-Preserving 
electric vehicle (EV) charging 
station. 
Proof of Work 
No implementation of Proof 
of Concept, no use of Smart 
Contracts, and not 
implemented on Ethereum 
network. 
(Shitang Yu, 
Kun Luv, 
2018) 
     IEEE 
Node Mapping in intelligent 
devices using PBFT-DPOC. 
Delegated Proof 
of Contribution 
Used consensus algorithm 
has low efficiency and 
doesn’t always allow 
decentralization. 
(P. Urien, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Securing Crypto Wallets by 
managing keys. 
Based on Secure 
Smart Cards 
No Consensus Algorithm is 
used and also the cost of 
hardware used is high. 
(I. 
Makhdoom, 
F.Tofigh, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Making Consensus attack-proof 
and reducing transaction latency. 
Proof of Honesty 
Currently implemented for 
only consortium blockchains, 
not for public blockchains. 
T. Salman, R. 
Jain, and L. 
Gupta, 2019) 
   IEEE 
Reducing and detecting 
malicious node’s effect on the 
probabilistic blockchain’s 
consensus process.  
AI (agents) based 
collective decision  
Consensus calculations and 
removing malicious nodes 
from the network needs still to 
be implemented. 
(K. Wang, H. 
S. Kim, 2019) 
   IEEE 
Reducing block propagation 
time and increasing throughput 
and scalability of the system. 
Proof of Work 
Shows efficiency only when 
the nodes have different 
mining power and POW is 
still time and resource-
consuming. 
(D. Chen, H. 
Yuan, S. Hu, 
2020) 
   IEEE 
Proof of retrievability and data 
replication with incentives given 
Proof of 
Replication and 
Retrievability 
The Server is still vulnerable 
and open to server-side 
attacks. 
(M. Singh, G. 
S.    Aujla, A. 
Singh, 2020) 
   IEEE 
Securing a software-defined 
industrial network using a deep 
learning-based blockchain 
framework 
Voting Based, 
Proof of Identity, 
Proof of 
Knowledge 
Efficient for a small number 
of nodes, as the nodes 
increase throughput decreases 
sharply. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:14:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2021 Second International Conference on Secure Cyber Computing and Communication (ICSCCC) 
217 
 
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE SCOPE 
     In this paper, we present a review of recent 
researches in the field of blockchain technology 
approaches. We review and establish a comparative 
analysis based on the research studies towards 
advancements in blockchain techniques. Blockchains can 
revolutionize the “blockchain as usual” practice to 
“blockchain as a service”. Through the literature referred 
we conclude that use cases of this technology, in sectors 
such as healthcare, supply chain, business and industry, 
data management, financial, prediction market, and 
governance are shifting towards blockchain technology. 
          Future researches can be done to address the 
issues found like: 
• To validate the transactions done on the bitcoin 
blockchain takes 10 minutes and the transactions done on 
the Ethereum blockchain take up to 2 minutes, a more 
efficient approach is needed. 
• Instead of using both public and private clouds together, 
the use of Hyperledger will be efficient which is a 
consortium blockchain. 
• New consensus algorithms are needed to be developed to 
guarantee decentralization. 
• Before implementing permissioned or permissionless 
blockchains their fundamentals are needed to be studied 
to increase the overall performance and utilization of 
blockchain. 
• POS instead of POW needs to be implemented. 
• More incentives are needed to be given to attract more 
validators and 51% attack can be prevented. 
                        REFERENCES 
[1] S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system, 2008. 
[2] A next-generation smart contract and decentralized application 
platform, V Buterin - white paper, 2014. 
[3] Singh, Balpreet & Sharma, Krishna & Sharma, Nonita. (2020). 
Blockchain Applications, Opportunities, Challenges, and Risks: A     
Survey. SSRN Electronic Journal. 10.2139/ssrn.3565930. 
[4] Szabo N. (1997)," The Idea of Smart Contracts". 
[5] Neeharika Bakhla, Abhishek Kumar, Fanilal, Jayparkash. RFID 
technology in automatic toll collection. Recent Trends in Sensor 
Research & Technology. 2018 
[6] Tanveer, Hasnain & Javaid, Nadeem. (2019). Using Ethereum 
Blockchain Technology for Road Toll Collection on Highways.  
[7] T. Li, W. Zhang, N. Chen, M. Qian, and Y. Xu, "Blockchain 
Technology Based Decentralized Energy Trading for Multiple-
Microgrid Systems," 2019 IEEE 3rd Conference on Energy Internet 
and Energy System Integration (EI2), Changsha, China, 2019, pp. 
631-636, doi: 10.1109/EI247390.2019.9061928.  
[8] S. Ai, D. Hu, T. Zhang, Y. Jiang, C. Rong, and J. Cao, "Blockchain-
based Power Transaction Asynchronous Settlement System," 2020 
IEEE 91st Vehicular Technology Conference (VTC2020-Spring), 
Antwerp, Belgium, 2020, pp. 1-6, DOI: 10.1109/VTC2020-
Spring48590.2020.9129593. 
[9] B. Jia and Y. Liang, "Anti-D chain: A lightweight DDoS attack 
detection scheme based on heterogeneous ensemble learning in 
blockchain," in China Communications, vol. 17, no. 9, pp. 11-24, 
Sept. 2020, DOI: 10.23919/JCC.2020.09.002. 
[10] M. V. Rajasekhar aIoTA. K. Jaswal, "Autonomous vehicles: The 
future of automobiles," 2015 IEEE International Transportation 
Electrification Conference (ITEC), Chennai, 2015, pp. 1-6, DOI: 
10.1109/ITEC-India.2015.7386874.  
[11] M. Singh, "Tri-Blockchain Based Intelligent Vehicular Networks," 
IEEE INFOCOM 2020 - IEEE Conference on Computer 
Communications Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS), Toronto, ON, 
Canada, 2020, pp. 860-864, DOI: 
10.1109/INFOCOMWKSHPS50562.2020.9162692. 
[12] M. Suvajdzic, J. Oliverio, A. Barmpoutis, L. Wood and P. 
Burgermeister, "Discover DaVinci – A Gamified Blockchain 
Learning App," 2020 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain. 
[13] Cryptocurrency (ICBC), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2020, pp. 1-2, DOI: 
10.1109/ICBC48266.2020.9169470. 
[14] T. V. Doan, T. D. Pham, M. Oberprieler and V. Bajpai, "Measuring 
Decentralized Video Streaming: A Case Study of DTube," 2020 IFIP 
Networking Conference (Networking), Paris, France, 2020, pp. 118-
126. 
[15] P. Urien, "Crypto Terminal: A New Open Device For Securing 
Blockchain Wallets," 2020 IEEE International Conference on 
Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC), Toronto, ON, Canada, 
2020, pp. 1-3, doi: 10.1109/ICBC48266.2020.9169410. 
[16] I. Makhdoom, F. Tofigh, I. Zhou, M. Abolhasan and J. Lipman, 
"PLEDGE: A Proof-of-Honesty based Consensus Protocol for 
Blockchain-based IoT Systems," 2020 IEEE International 
Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC), Toronto, 
ON, Canada, 2020, pp. 1-3, doi: 
10.1109/ICBC48266.2020.9169406. 
[17] T. Salman, R. Jain and L. Gupta, "A Reputation Management 
Framework for Knowledge-Based and Probabilistic Blockchains," 
2019 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain), 
Atlanta, GA, USA, 2019, pp. 520-527, doi: 
10.1109/Blockchain.2019.00078. 
[18] K. Wang and H. S. Kim, "FastChain: Scaling Blockchain System 
with Informed Neighbor Selection," 2019 IEEE International 
Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain), Atlanta, GA, USA, 2019, 
pp. 376-383, doi: 10.1109/Blockchain.2019.00058. 
[19] D. Chen, H. Yuan, S. Hu, Q. Wang and C. Wang, "BOSSA: A 
Decentralized System for Proofs of Data Retrievability and 
Replication," in IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed 
Systems, vol. 32, no. 4, pp. 786-798, 1 April 2021, doi: 
10.1109/TPDS.2020.3030063. 
[20] M. Singh, G. S. Aujla, A. Singh, N. Kumar and S. Garg, "Deep-
Learning-Based Blockchain Framework for Secure Software-
Defined Industrial Networks," in IEEE Transactions on Industrial 
Informatics, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 606-616, Jan. 2021, doi: 
10.1109/TII.2020.2968946. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:14:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
		2022-08-24T21:53:46-0400
	Preflight Ticket Signature