The Subliminal Channel and Digital Signatures 
Gustavus J. Simmons 
Sandia National Laboratories 
Albuquerque, New Mexico 87185 
Abstract 
In a paper entitled "The Prisoners' Problem and the Subliminal Channel" 
[ l ] ,  the present author showed that a message authentication without secrecy 
channel providing m bits of overt communication and r bits of message auth- 
entication could be perverted to allow an I < r bit covert channel between 
the transmitter and a designated receiver at the expense of reducing the 
message authentication capability to r-I bits, vithout affecting the overt 
channel. It was also shoun that under quite reasonable conditions the detec- 
tion of even the existence of this covert channel could be made as difficult 
as the underlying cryptoalgorithm was difficult to "break." In view of this 
open -- but indetectable - existence, the covert channel was called the 
"subliminal" channel. The examples constructed in [I], although adequate t o  
prove the existence of such channels, did not appear to be feasible to extend 
to interesting communications systems. Fortunately, two digital signature 
schemes have been proposed since Crypto 83 -- one by Ong-Schnorr-Shamir [Z] 
based on the difficulty of factoring sufficiently large composite numbers and 
one by Carnal [ 3 ]  based on the difficulty of taking discrete logarithms vith 
respect to a primitive element in a finite field -- that provide ideal bases 
for implementing practical subliminal channels. This paper reviews briefly 
the essential features of the subliminal channel and then discusses implemen- 
tations in both the Ong-Schnorr-Shamfr and Gamal digital signature channels. 
* This work was performed at Sandia National Labortories supported by the U . S .  
Department of Energy under contract No. DE-ACQ4-76DPQQ789. 
T. Beth, N. Cot, and I. Ingemarsson (Eds.): Advances in Cryptology - EUROCRYPT '84, LNCS 209, pp. 364-378, 1985. 
0 Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 1985 
365 
Introduction 
The subliminal channel was first conceived of as a way of "cheating" in 
an authentication without secrecy channel of the type considered for various 
treaty compliance verification schemes [4,5]. More recently, it has been 
recognized that several digital signature schemes lend themselves equally 
well to subliminal communictions. Since there are some (significant?) dif- 
ferences between the two, we briefly review the first formulation -- based on 
perverting a message authentication without secrecy channel -- and then dis- 
cuss how such channels can also be concealed in digital signatures. 
In order to communicate m bits of information and to provide for r bits 
of authentication, at least m+r bits must be exchanged. The r bits are in a 
strict sense redundant information since they are only used by the receiver 
to partition the set of all possible messages into disjoint subsets of accept- 
able (i.e., authentic) and unacceptable messages. In complete generality, 
authentication, with or without secrecy of the information from an opponent 
depends on the message containing information already known (in some sense) 
to the receiver. The receiver equates the presence of this prearranged 
information with the authenticity of the message. Conversely, the absence 
of this information is interpreted to mean that the communication is not 
genuine. For example, authentic messages may be required to include a "one 
time" suffix known in secret to the transmitter and authorized receiver but 
not to an opponent, as is the common practice in military authentication 
systems. 
the authenticating information from a genuine message and appending it to 
a fraudulent or altered message, the information - both message and authen- 
ticating - is generally secured from outsiders by encryption. In order 
to make each symbol or collection of symbols in the cipher -- which 
Since the opponent must be prevented from simply "stripping off" 
366 
the opponent may alter -- be a function of all of the symbols in both the 
message itself and in the authenticator, the encryption is commonly done 
as a block cipher (if m+r is small enough) or else as a block chain or 
feedback cipher, so as to produce the desired "spreading" of symbol depen- 
dence. In any event, if the cryptoalgorithm is adequately secure, the prob- 
ability of the opponent being able to deceive the receiver into accepting 
a fraudulent or altered message as authentic is bounded by: 
In a message authentication without secrecy channel, a third party, 
commonly called the "host" to the communication channel from the origins of 
this problem in systems to,verify compliance with a comprehensive nuclear 
weapons test ban treaty, is given the means to decrypt the cipher and thus 
verify that nothing other than the agreed upon message is contained in the 
cipher. 
the encryptionldecryption session key used to encrypt the immediate past 
message as soon as the exchange has taken place. If a two-key cryptoalgor- 
ithm is used, he is given the decryption key in advance of the exchange. 
For single key cryptographic systems , the host must "trust" the transmit- 
terlreceiver until he receives the decryption key corresponding to the 
last cipher exchange - which if the message is very l ong  may involve an 
unacceptable level of risk (to him) of covert communication. There is no 
way of avoiding this problem for single key systems though, since if the 
host has the key in advance so that he can decrypt the cipher, he could also 
encrypt and hence create an undetectable forgery. 
-- difference €or two key cryptosystems i s  the absence of this need for even 
a temporary "trust" by either party of the other since the host can have 
If a single key cryptoalgorithm is used, this is done by giving hlm 
The essential -- and vital 
367 
the decryption key in his possession prior to any exchange of messages, and 
hence have the ability to verify the message content prior to forwarding the 
cipher. On the other hand, since the host cannot infer the unknown encryption 
key, the transmitter/receiver are confident that he cannot better his guessing 
odds of choosing an acceptable cipher. Actual authentication without secrecy 
channels are frequently much more complex than this simplified description 
suggests. The chapter entitled "Message Authentication Without Secrecy" in 
Secure Communications and Asymmetric Cryptosystems [ 4 ]  is recommended for a 
more complete discussion of this concept. 
The essential points to an authentication without secrecy channel are 
that; 
a) the receiver authenticates a message through the presence of r 
bits of redundant, i.e., expected, information in the decrypted 
cipher , 
b) the host to the communication channel verifies that nothing has 
been concealed by decrypting the ciphers and verifying that the 
resulting message is precisely what he expected based on an a priori 
knowledge of the message. 
As mentioned before, the channel is operationally different for the host 
depending on whether it is based on a single or two key cryptoalgorithm since 
this determines whether he can check for concealed information before or 
after the exchange occurs. However, this does not alter the way in which he 
satisfies himself that nothing is concealed -- namely, that the cipher decrypts 
to the expected message. 
The essential idea involved in setting up a subliminal channel as an 
indetectable part of a message authentication without secrecy channel is 
simple. We assume that the authentication channel has been implemented using 
368 
a two key cryptoalgorithm. 
the decryption key, d, in advance to enable them to verify that the overt 
channel is not being misused -- which it isn't. The public (decryption) key 
cryptoalgorithm, though, isn't quite what it appears to be. For the moment, 
assume that there are two ciphers corresponding to each message, either of 
which will decrypt, using the public decryption key, into the same (correct) 
message. The host, given either one of a pair of such ciphers, would decrypt 
it using his decryption key and be convinced that nothing was hidden in the 
message which, technically speaking, is true. The receiver however, could in 
addition to decrypting the cipher to authenticate the message and to recover 
the overt communication, also be able to learn as much as one additional bit 
of information from the identity of the particular cipher used to communicate 
the message. It is this "side" channel that is called the subliminal channel. 
In this case the host andlor opponent are given 
Figure 1 shows schematically what the host has agreed to and believes 
is taking place, i.e., the classical two key message authentication without 
secret public 
e n c r y p t i o n  d e c r y p t i o n  
m key m 
I \ 
e 
W 
Figure 1. Tvo Key Message Authentication Without Secrecy Channel 
369 
secrecy channel. h is the set of all possible messages while M is the subset 
of messages that have the prearranged redundant information and hence will be 
accepted as authentic by the receiver. For example, if the information is a 
48-bit binary number and the authenticating information i s  a suffix consisting 
of a 16-bit string of zeroes, m is the set of 264 64-bit binary numbers while 
M is the subset containing only the 248 64-bit numbers that end in 16 zeroes. 
It is assumed that the encryption function is a good randomizer, i.e., that 
the ciphers, @A, produced by encrypting the messages in M "spread" over the 
total of 264 ciphers in c in such a way that the opponent -- even i f  he knows 
the encryption function (but not the encryption key e of course) and arbitrat- 
ily many message/cipher pairs cannot do better at choosing a cipher in @A than 
random guessing. The existence of m a s  opposed to M is unimportant to the 
transmitter since he only encrypts messages from the subset M, i.e., messages 
that will be accceptable to the receiver. The existence of h is vital, how- 
ever, to both the opponent and receiver, since it provides the means by which 
the receiver detects and avoids deception. Using the decryption key, d ,  the 
receiver and the hostfopponent can decrypt any message in C, into the proper 
m EM. CA is of course unknown (to the opponent) and as difficult to deter- 
mine as the cryptoalgorithm is cryptosecure. If the opponent chooses a 
Ic. I 
I -ul 
\'A @u\ 
be a cipher in @, cipher at random, it will with a probability like 
and hence be rejected by the receiver as not being an authentic communication- 
This is what the host believes is happening, and indeed is all that is veri- 
fiable by him. 
Figure 2 shows what is actually taking place though (in our simple one- 
bit example). Instead of there being a single encryption key, e, as claimed 
by the transmitterlreceiver and as believed by the host, there are actually 
tvo  encryption keys, el and e2,  each of which encrypts the set of acceptable 
370 
secret 
encryption 
keys 
public 
decryption 
key 
2 d e 
Figure 2. One Bit Subliminal Channel 
messages into a corresponding set of acceptable ciphers disjoint from the 
set of acceptable ciphers produced by the other key. The special feature 
of the cryptoalgorithm is that either of the ciphers produced by encrypting a 
message mi with el or e2 decrypts under the key d to m i .  As indicated by the 
bold lines i n  Figure 2 for the specific choice mi = ml: 
while 
Our convention will be that the transmitter will use el to encrypt if he 
wishes to send a 0 to the receiver and e2 to send a 1. 
ing d, el and e2 can easily detect the subliminal bit sent by the transmitter. 
He first decrypts the cipher c using d to recover an m E h. If the message 
is authentic, i.e., m = mi E M  then the received c was actually one of a pair 
of ciphers, cil or ci2. If m # M, then of course the communication would be 
The receiver, know- 
37 1 
rejected by the receiver as inauthentic. 
it with both el and " 2  to calculate cil and ci2 and hence to determine which 
cipher was used by the transmitter, i.e., to determine which encryption key 
was used and thereby to detect the subliminal bit. 'It should be obvious from 
this example how the technique can be extended to allow for an arbitrary 
amount of information to be passed through the subliminal channel. In [I] 
we discussed one cryptosecure subliminal channel based on the difficulty of 
factoring sufficiently large products of three distinct primes -- which 
unfortunately couldn't be extended to practical, large capacity, subliminal 
channels. In the next section we show how to hide a large capacity sublim- 
inal channel in digital signatures. 
If mi is authentic, he then encrypts 
The Subliminal Channel 
Ong, Schnorr and Shamir recently proposed a computationally efficient 
digital signature channel based on the difficulty of factoring large composite 
numbers 121. In the interest of both completeness and brevity we summarize 
the essential points in their scheme for the three steps: key generation, 
signature generation and signature verification. 
Key Generation 
1. Tx chooses a composite n which is computationally infeasible to 
factor. The factorization of n is kept secret (if known). 
fi chooses a random u, (u,n) = 1, and calculates kt-u-? (mod n). 
il is kept secret. 
2 .  
3 .  'Rr publishes n and k as his authentication key. 
372 
Signature Generation 
Given a message m, (m,n) - 1, to be "signed"" 
1. Tx chooses a random r, (r ,n) - 1. r is kept secret. 
2.  Tx calculates 
s2 - 2 r  (" - r) (mod n) 
3 .  The triple (m, sl, 82)  is transmitted as the "signed" message. 
Authentication of Signature 
1. Rx receives (m, 81, s2) 
2.  Rx calculates 
2 a sf + k s2 (mod n) 
3. The message m is accepted as authentic if and only if 
a = m  . 
It is  important to note that in the digital signature scheme just des- 
cribed, that if we let R = log n , 3 1  bits (on average) are transmitted 
in a signed message (m, "1, 82) .  
overtly, and since there are approximately 2 signatures for any given mes- 
sage, provides approximately R bits of authentication in the signature. The 
remaining L bits are "wasted" in the digital signature scheme. We propose to 
use these "free" bits for the subliminal channel. In this respect, using the 
digital signature channel to implement a subliminal channel differs from 
what was proposed in [l] where the subliminal bits were obtained by giving up 
r 2 1  
This communicates L bits of information 
R 
373 
an equal number of bits from the authentication channel. This difference 
will also be true €or the other digital signature scheme discussed later. 
To set up the subliminal channel, in addition to the steps taken by the 
transmitter in the key generation procedure for the digital sfgnature scheme, 
the transmitter secretly communicates u to the designated receiver, Rxt, for 
the subliminal channel. 
message m through the overt channel and a covert message m 
liminal channel, where it is still desired that both the Rxt and third par- 
ties be able to verify the authenticity of the signature to m, the transmit- 
Now, when the transmitter wishes to send a signed 
* through the sub- 
ter generates the signature as follows. 
Signature Generation for the Subliminal/Signature Channel 
~~ 
Given a message m, (m,n) = 1, to be "signed" and a message m*, 
(m*,n) = 1, to be communicated subliminally: 
1. Tx calculates 
s1 = ( 5 + m* ) (mod n) 
2. The triple (m, 81, 52)  is transmitted as the "signed" message. 
Authentication of the signature by either the designated receiver , Rxt , 
or by third parties is unaffected by the presence of  the subliminal communi- 
cation. The designated receiver, however, knowing u can solve for the sub- 
liminal message as f o l l o w s :  
374 
Decoding the Subliminal Message 
The subliminal Rxt, given (m, 81,82) and knoving u, calculates 
to recover the covert message m* "hidden" by the Tx in the signature 
of m. 
The 31 bits (on average) contained in the signed message (m, sl, 52)  
have now been fully used to provide for an ilbit overt channel, an IbFt 
covert channel and I bits of authentication. An opponent or outsider is 
faced with an equally difficult (computational) task in detecting either 
that the subliminal channel exists or is being employed and in breaking the 
digital signature scheme. 
Gamal has proposed a digital signature scheme [3] based on the difficulty 
of taking discrete logarithms with respect to a primitive element in a finite 
field GF(p). 
Schnorr-Shamir digltal signature scheme, the Gamal scheme also Involves the 
same three steps: key generation, signature generation and signature veri- 
f i ca ti on. 
Folloving the same procedure adopted in presenting the Ong- 
Key Generation 
1. Tx chooses a finite field GF(p), p a prime, and a primitive element 
w E GF(p). This is public information and need not even be unique 
to the transmitter. 
2. Tx chooses a random u, u < p, and calculates k = (3.'. u is kept 
secret. 
3 .  Tx publishes k -- and if need be p and w -  as his authentication 
key. 
375 
Signature Generation 
Given a message m, m < p, to be "signed": 
1. Tx chooses a random r, (r, p-1) = 1. r is kept secret. 
2. Tx calculates 
x -  wt 
and solves for y in 
m G ux + ry (mod p-1)  
using the Euclidean algorithm. 
3.  The triple (m,x,y) Is transmitted as the signed message. 
Authentication of Signature 
1. Rx receives (m,x,y). 
2 .  Rx calculates 
a = kXxY . 
3. The message m is accepted as authentic if and only if 
In the Gamal digital signature scheme, where I - [logzp], just as in 
the Ong-Schnorr-Shamir digital signature scheme, 31 bits are transmitted to 
provide an I bit overt channel and I bits of authentication capability. We 
can use the I bits left over to achieve another subliminal channel. 
To set up the subliminal channel, in addition to the steps taken by the 
transmitter in the key generation procedure, the transmitter secretly com- 
municates u to the designated receiver, Rxt, for the subliminal channel. 
Now, when the transmitter wishes to send a signed message m through the 
overt channel and a covert m* through the subliminal channel -- where it is 
376 
still desired that both the Rxf and third parties be able to verify the 
authenticity of the signature to m, the transmitter generates the signature 
as follows: 
Signature Generation for the Subliminal/Signature Channel 
Given a message m, m < p, to be "signed," and a message m*, m* < p ,  
to be communicated subliminally: 
1. Tx calculates 
* m 
X'W 
and solves f o r  y in 
m = ux + m*y (mod p-1) 
using the Euclidean algorithm. 
2 .  The triple (m,x,y) is transmitted as the signed message. 
Authentication of the signature by either the designated receiver, Rxt ,  
or by third parties is unaffected by the presence of the subliminal communi- 
cation. 
liminal message as follows: 
The designated receiver, however, knowing u can solve for the sub- 
Decoding the Subliminal Message 
The subliminal R x f ,  given (m,x,y) and knowing u ,  calculates 
m* = y-l(~-ux) (mod p-1) 
to recover the covert message m* "hidden" by the Tx in the signature 
of m. 
The general principles underlying the implementation of a subliminal 
channel in a digital signature scheme, as illustrated in the preceding two 
377 
examples, are probably applicable to digital signature schemes in general. 
One of the author's colleagues, John DeLaurentis, has shown how to realize a 
subliminal channel in the earlier Ong-Schnorr digital signature scheme [ 6 ]  
and the author has more recently shown how to use the,cubic OSS-signature 
scheme [ 7 ]  in a similar manner. Both of these cases are more complex to use 
than the two discussed here -- but are fundamentally the same. The bottom 
line is that (several) digital signature schemes can be adapted to provide 
high capacity subliminal channels -- in which equally much information flows 
through the covert channel as through the overt channel. 
Postscript 
In the week following Eurocrypt 86 at which this paper was presented, 
J. M. Pollard successfully cryptanalyzed the Ong-Schnorr-Shamir digital 
signature scheme [ 8 ] .  This development doesn't affect the validity of the 
concept of the subliminal channel, but it does eliminate from consideration 
what was the most attractive and practical implementation. 
378 
References 
1. 
2 .  
3 .  
4 .  
5 .  
6 .  
7 .  
a. 
G. J. Simmons, "The Prisoners' Problem and the Subliminal Channel," 
Proceedings of Crypto 8 3 ,  Santa Barbara, CA, August 21-24, 1 9 8 3 ,  to 
be published by Plenum Press. 
H. Ong, C. P. Schnorr and A. Shamir, "An Efficient Signature Scheme 
Based on Quadratic Equations," to appear Proceedings of 16th Symposium 
on Theory of Computing, Washington D.C+, April 1984.  
T. El Gamal, "A New Public Key Cryptosystem and Signature Scheme Based 
on Discrete Logarithms," to appear IEEE Transactions on Information 
Theory. 
G. J. Simmons, "Message Authentication Without Secrecy,'' in Secure 
~ ~~ 
Communications and Asymmetric Cryptosystems, ed. by G. J. Simmons, 
AAAS Selected Symposia Series, Westview Press, Boulder, CO ( 1 9 8 2 ) .  
pp. 105-139.  
G. J. Simmons, "Verification of Treaty Compliance -- Revisited," 
Proceedings of the 1 9 8 2  Symposium on Security and Privacy, Oakland, 
CA, April 25-27, 1 9 8 3 ,  pp. 61-66. 
H. Ong and C. P. Schnorr, "Signatures through Approximate Represen- 
tations by Quadratic Forms," Proceedings of Crypto 8 3 ,  Santa Barbara, 
CA, August 21-24,  1 9 8 3 ,  to be published by Plenum Press. 
C. P. Schnorr, "A Cubic OSS-Signature Scheme," private communicatioa, 
May 1 9 8 4 .  
J. Pollard, "Solution of x 2  + ky2 = m (mod n)," private communication, 
April 1 9 8 4 .