Avoiding Risky Designs When Using Blockchain Technologies in Cyber-Physical Systems
Avoiding Risky Designs When Using Blockchain
Technologies in Cyber-Physical Systems
Nicholas Stifter∗†, Matthias Eckhart∗†, Bernhard Brenner∗†, Edgar Weippl∗†
∗Christian Doppler Laboratory for Security and Quality Improvement in the Production System Lifecycle, TU Wien, Vienna, Austria
†SBA Research, Vienna, Austria
firstname.lastname@sba-research.org
Abstract—Blockchain has been hailed as an emerging technol-
ogy with the potential to cause significant impact in a variety of
fields. One domain is an application in cyber-physical systems
(CPSs), e.g., as a building block for the (Industrial) Internet
of Things (IIoT) and Industry 4.0. In this regard, various use
cases and designs have been proposed that seek to leverage
the desirable properties blockchain technologies seem to offer.
While many of the principles behind blockchain have actually
been studied under the veil of Byzantine fault tolerance for
decades, some approaches, such as relying on game-theoretic
incentives and proof-of-work (PoW), are not yet fully under-
stood. This knowledge gap can leave both practitioners and
researchers in a difficult position regarding a possible application
of such technologies, as it is often unclear what guarantees and
characteristics a particular blockchain design actually achieves.
This work-in-progress paper provides an overview of blockchain
security research, outlines system designs that are likely to exhibit
vulnerabilities, and provides examples of potentially insecure
proposals in the field of CPSs that employ such designs.
Index Terms—blockchain, security, cyber-physical systems
I. INTRODUCTION
In the context of cyber-physical systems (CPSs), blockchain
technologies seem particularly suited for areas where trans-
parency, trust, and accountability is of utmost importance,
such as supply chain management, energy management, or
decentralized manufacturing. Many of the possible use cases
in these domains are currently addressed either conceptually,
or at an initial prototypical stage of implementation, as the
necessary technological foundations and principles are still
being established. The rapidly increasing body of research on
existing blockchain protocols, as well as newly proposed de-
signs and mechanisms, render it difficult to maintain oversight
of these developments and incorporate new insights.
As a result, existing use cases and implementations of
blockchain in CPSs may rely on incorrect assumptions that
could compromise their security and correct operation. The
consequences of vulnerable blockchain implementations are
particularly severe in the context of CPSs, as compromised
security can also lead to safety issues [1]. Although a con-
siderable amount of literature has been published on possible
applications of blockchain technologies within CPSs, previous
research does not provide a critical evaluation of system
attributes in existing concepts. Analyzing proposals in order
to validate blockchain design decisions and their claimed
The financial support by the Christian Doppler Research Association, the
Austrian Federal Ministry for Digital and Economic Affairs and the National
Foundation for Research, Technology and Development, and COMET K1,
FFG - Austrian Research Promotion Agency is gratefully acknowledged.
security properties is fundamental for preventing technical
debt, security issues, and the resulting safety implications.
The paper at hand is aimed to address this gap. In particular,
we provide an overview of security research on blockchain
technologies and relate it to existing proposals that utilize
blockchain in the context of CPSs, (I)IoT and Industry 4.0.
Hereby, we show that beyond identifying appropriate use cases
where blockchain could provide meaningful benefits, it is also
essential to carefully consider the particular requirements and
choose an adequate system model, as failure to do so may lead
to insecure and vulnerable designs. The preliminary results
presented in this work-in-progress paper provide an outlook
on the development of a framework to support the decision-
making process regarding the appropriate choice of blockchain
technologies for particular use cases.
II. BACKGROUND
Blockchain technologies are the core enabling mechanism
for decentralized cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin [2]. Hereby,
the necessity to trust a single third party to secure and
update a distributed transaction ledger in order to prevent
double spending of funds is avoided. The desirable charac-
teristics blockchain-based distributed ledgers appear to offer
has prompted various research fields and industries to explore
possible applications of these technologies that extend well
beyond peer-to-peer digital payments [3], [4].
It is important to note that many of the concepts, compo-
nents, and goals behind blockchain have been the subject of
study for decades [5]. In particular, the topic of Byzantine fault
tolerance (BFT) is of interest, as it addresses how (distributed)
systems can be designed to tolerate arbitrary failures or mali-
cious behavior by a subset of its components. Many blockchain
and cryptocurrency protocol designs, including Bitcoin, are
targeted at an open, peer-to-peer setting with weak identities.
In principle, in such a model anyone can participate in the
consensus mechanism, observe the ledger’s state, and issue
transactions or state updates. This design principle is gener-
ally referred to as permissionless, whereas blockchains and
distributed ledgers with a fixed set of consensus participants,
stronger identities, and restrictions on who may issue state
updates are called permissioned [6].
To achieve meaningful guarantees and BFT within a permis-
sionless system model, trade-offs and additional assumptions
are required compared to permissioned BFT protocols. Formal
analyses regarding the differences and characteristics between
blockchain and traditional BFT is a topic of ongoing research
978-1-7281-0303-7/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 1623
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[7], [8]. By explicitly highlighting the ties between blockchain
and BFT, we show its relevance to prior use cases in CPSs
and (I)IoT where BFT may be advantageous.
III. OVERVIEW OF BLOCKCHAIN SECURITY RESEARCH
A general overview of research perspectives and challenges
for Bitcoin is given in [9]. The properties of the Bitcoin
protocol, termed Nakamoto Consensus (NC), are first formally
analyzed in [10] and an overview of related research is
provided in [7], [8]. A discerning characteristic between NC
and most BFT protocols is a lack of consensus finality in
the former, i.e. only eventual consistency is achieved. This
is a trade-off between liveness and safety of the underly-
ing consensus [7]. Generally speaking, NC-style blockchains
only achieve consistency over a common prefix of blocks
with a probability that increases exponentially with newly
mined blocks [10]. In practice, this means that the head
of a blockchain can change, revert, or be conflicting and
must first stabilize before being agreed upon. Failing to take
this property into consideration may lead to incorrect system
states, even within permissioned settings [11]. An analysis of
parametrizations of public PoW blockchains and a framework
to determine their security and performance is given in [12].
Sompolinsky and Zohar summarize and improve upon Bit-
coin’s security guarantees regarding double spending attacks,
providing bounds for safely accepting transactions [13].
Missing consensus finality in NC also introduces the abil-
ity of block withholding attacks [14], [15] that adversely
affect the chain quality [10]. Zhang and Preneel provide a
comprehensive overview and analysis framework for security
in PoW blockchains [16]. The game-theoretic components
and modeling of player incentives in NC-style blockchains
is still an open research question. Recently, Azouvi et al.
provides a systematization of literature on the topic [17].
Bribing attacks constitute a particular aspect of rational players
and player incentives [18]. Ullrich et al. discusses attacking
reliable power grid operation through PoW cryptocurrencies
[19]. Routing attacks have the potential to severely disrupt
mining operations [20] and facilitate this scenario.
Depending on the particular application scenario or use case,
blockchain technologies may not be an ideal solution. Wüst
and Gervais [21] and Klein et. al. [22] provide frameworks
for identifying appropriate use cases. Many permissionless and
permissioned blockchain designs are novel and do not provide
rigorous security and correctness analyses. Cachin and Vukolić
[23] discusses a variety of blockchain consensus protocols and
analyze their claimed characteristics.
a) Discussion: The above overview highlights that key
characteristics of novel blockchain protocols are still the topic
of discussion and their provided guarantees are not always
clear. Many of the outlined attacks against NC-style PoW
blockchains may also be adopted by an adversary in a per-
missioned PoW setting, once mining nodes are compromised.
If a modest set of (permissioned) consensus participants is ac-
ceptable, relying on well-established BFT protocols currently
remains a prudent approach, as the well researched, and often
stronger, security guarantees and characteristics offer a clear
advantage [24].
IV. RISK INDICATORS IN BLOCKCHAIN CHARACTERISTICS
Based on our prior overview of blockchain security research,
we highlight designs, system characteristics, and assumptions
that are indicative of unproven or risky approaches. Systems
that exhibit such properties are not necessarily vulnerable,
however there exists considerably less research and expe-
rience, requiring additional diligence and careful protocol
analysis to ensure correctness and security.
i. Permissioned + Proof-of-Work: An application of PoW
in a permissioned setting is indicative of a less than ideal
system configuration. The security guarantees of PoW are
derived from an honest computational majority [2]. PoW
can be readily outsourced to other hardware, and mech-
anisms to prevent this generally rely on game-theoretic
incentives that do not apply in most permissioned sys-
tems. Further, PoW-based consensus generally only offers
eventual consistency and not consensus finality.
ii. Unproven Protocol Components and Primitives: This
includes consensus protocols and cryptographic algo-
rithms that have not been formally analyzed and rigor-
ously studied. Further, protocol compositions should also
be re-evaluated as their security guarantees may change.
iii. Additional Correctness Requirements: Components or
participants that are required to be correct at all times,
beyond the defined thresholds for BFT, may present a
single point of failure and can introduce further security
risks. Different failure tolerance thresholds or permissible
types of failures within the same system design also
warrant closer inspection.
iv. Permissioned + Dynamic Consensus Membership:
Achieving dynamic group membership in a Byzantine set-
ting is a difficult problem [7]. Bitcoin and NC presents a
particular solution in the permissionless setting, however
general solutions for a permissioned environment with
realistic system assumptions remain an open research
question. Protocols that intend to achieve such guarantees
should be carefully analyzed.
v. Permissioned + Incentives: The assumption of addi-
tional game-theoretic incentives, such as monetary reward
structures, can be problematic as there is still consider-
ably less security research on protocols employing these
mechanisms [17]. Utilizing monetary incentives may fur-
thermore introduce unwanted new attack surfaces through
bribing and as a direct bounty for successful attacks.
vi. Consistency Requirements + No Consensus Final-
ity: Special care needs to be taken if consensus safety
guarantees are weakened, e.g., by a lack of finality.
Unless confirmation times are carefully and appropriately
chosen, various attacks become possible [13]. Proposals
and use cases where this is the case should explicitly
acknowledge and address the possible effects.
vii. Sensitive Data in Transactions and Ledger: If data
contained within the ledger or any transactions may be
1624
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
used by an adversary for attacks, the design should be
closely examined for possible vulnerabilities.
V. ANALYSIS OF CPSS & (I)IOT BLOCKCHAIN USE CASES
We present and analyze four proposed approaches of em-
ploying blockchain technologies in the context of CPSs and
(I)IoT where the herein introduced risk indicators apply to
aspects of the design. The analysis is not comprehensive and
only serves to highlight that the presented guidelines are able
to identify possible risk factors.
A. Securing SCADA Communication via the Blockchain
1) Approach: A blockchain-based scheme for securing
SCADA communication using a permissioned PoW blockchain
is presented in [25]. An optimization approach for choosing
appropriate chain parametrizations is described to help ensure
that the real-time requirements of control and monitoring
functions are met by the underlying blockchain.
2) Possible Risk Factors: i, v, vi; An analysis of the
presented system model highlights a possibly problematic
assumption. It is indicated that the mining power remains
constant for all designated mining entities. To prevent a
miner from outsourcing its PoW, it is suggested to employ a
technique presented by Eyal and Sirer [26], as well as utilizing
a permissioned model where authorized miners are required to
provide a valid signature for the PoW to be considered valid.
However, such a deterrent against outsourcing is based on
game-theoretic incentives that are not immediately applicable
in the presented system model. It is hence likely possible
that an adversary who has compromised a mining node can
outsource the PoW and perform a variety of known attacks
against NC-style blockchains, and possibly even achieve a
computational majority within the network.
3) Possible Amendments: The reliance on PoW-based con-
sensus should be replaced with a more established consensus
mechanism that is specifically designed for the intended per-
missioned system model.
B. Collaborative Development of Power Electronic Devices
1) Approach: An approach for the collaborative develop-
ment of power electronic devices using blockchain in the
context of Industry 4.0 is presented in [27]. It is outlined how a
producer may use a blockchain to present offers for the design
and implementation of power electronic devices. Engineers
that agree to the task and collaboratively solve the problem are
automatically reimbursed using locked cryptocurrency units
if the design is implemented and verified by all engineers.
The possibility of blockchain forks is explicitly acknowledged,
indicating a lack of consensus finality.
2) Possible Risk Factors: iii, iv, vii; The presented ap-
proach does not fully discuss and specify the necessary trust
assumptions between all involved parties. Based on the avail-
able information, collaboration by malicious engineers could
lead to defraudment of the producer by verifying an incorrect
design and receiving subsequent payment. It is outlined that
a producer may create new offers if previous ones were inad-
equate, necessitating some form of cancellation mechanism
of old offers. It must be ensured that a producer cannot
maliciously cancel or stall ongoing offers. In the presented
design, data from engineers needs to be shared with other
participants and may be stolen or copied by malicious parties
that monitor transactions on the ledger. Further, an application
of MultiChain within a permissioned setting may lead to
undesirable characteristics of the underlying blockchain, as the
protocol has not yet been rigorously analyzed [23].
3) Possible Amendments: The introduction of strong iden-
tities for all involved parties may help to disincentivize par-
ticipant misbehavior. If a blockchain is used without finality,
adequate stabilization time needs to be assured to avoid state
reversions and forms of double-spending where the offer is
reverted after the provided designs have already been pub-
lished. It is unclear how collaboration can be readily fostered
while preventing malicious parties from stealing or copying
other designs. The introduction of a commit-reveal scheme
may hamper such illicit front-running attempts.
C. Blockchain-based Protection Framework for Smart Meters
1) Approach: A distributed blockchain-based protection
framework for smart meters to protect modern power systems
against cyber attacks is proposed [28]. The approach builds
on a reconfigured SCADA network that employs a PoW
blockchain in a permissioned setting, together with a majority
voting scheme to authenticate both mined blocks, as well as
the sensor data that they include. This voting mechanism is
intended as an additional countermeasure to prevent successful
attacks unless a majority of the system is compromised.
2) Possible Risk Factors: i, vi; The presented scheme
follows an interesting approach that can be considered a hybrid
design between traditional BFT consensus protocols based
on voting, and a PoW blockchain. However, in the design
several essential aspects are not outlined. Without additional
prevention mechanisms, a compromised miner may outsource
its PoW, allowing it to perform censorship attacks on the data
being committed by mining empty blocks. Further, it is unclear
how consensus participants vote in case of blockchain forks
and if tie-breaking mechanisms between competing blocks
follow the longest chain rule such as Bitcoin [2] or employ
some other mechanism. An adversary with sufficient mining
power may either be able to revert an already committed state
by mining another longer chain, or it may compromise liveness
by logically partitioning the network and prevent a majority
vote on blocks in case participants only vote for one of the
competing blocks and reject all others as invalid. A more
formal specification and analysis of the presented protocol
seems necessary.
3) Amendments: Employing a well-studied, formally ana-
lyzed, BFT protocol with consensus finality that is executed
by a clearly defined subset of nodes would largely address the
outlined issues and also provide high data throughput.
D. Blockchain-based IIoT Architecture for Smart Factories
1) Approach: An IIoT architecture that leverages
blockchain technologies and is targeted at enhancing
1625
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
security and privacy in smart factories is presented in [29].
We hereby focus on the particular aspect of the proposal
that employs blockchain technologies, namely the so called
management hub layer. Hereby, the authors point out issues
of employing PoW and accompanying incentive components
of public blockchains and abandon them in favor of a
permissioned setting. It is proposed to employ a form of
PoW based on Statistical Process Control (SPC) or other
comparison algorithms, however design details are left open.
2) Possible Risk Factors: i, ii, vi; In [29] the reliance
on a PoW mechanism based on SPC or other comparison
algorithms is suggested. However, a detailed protocol descrip-
tion and security analysis of the PoW design and subsequent
blockchain construction is not provided. Based on the de-
scribed properties and code examples, it is likely that finality
is not guaranteed, as multiple management hubs appear to
be able to broadcast blocks concurrently. Management hubs
appear to act as a single trusted entity for sensors and devices
connected to them from a sensing layer and may perform
malicious actions such as selective censoring of data.
3) Amendments: A more traditional and well-studied BFT
consensus algorithm such as PBFT (Practical Byzantine Fault
Tolerance) should be employed, as it offers consensus finality
and its security guarantees are well defined [30]. This approach
is also acknowledged as a possible alternative to the proposed
design by the authors themselves. The adversarial model
may also need to be re-evaluated to ensure that a single
management hub is unable to manipulate or censor data.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
Within this work-in-progress paper we present current re-
search for creating a decision framework by which risks and
security issues within blockchain or distributed ledger designs,
with a particular focus on CPSs and (I)IoT, can be identified.
In contrast to prior art, our goal does not lie within identifying
relevant use cases, but rather to identify whether a particular
design or set of technologies presents a suitable choice for
the given system model and whether the expected guarantees
can actually be satisfied. Our analysis of existing proposals
that exhibit design characteristics which we classify as risk
indicators highlights their usefulness in identifying potential
issues or vulnerabilities. In particular, we observe that the
combination of permissioned blockchains and proof-of-work
consensus is a risk prone design choice that could be readily
avoided by relying on well-studied BFT consensus algorithms.
REFERENCES
[1] B. Miller and D. Rowe, “A survey of scada and critical infrastructure
incidents,” in Proc. of the 1st Annual Conference on Research in
Information Technology, ser. RIIT ’12. ACM, 2012, pp. 51–56.
[2] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Dec
2008. [Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[3] A. Goranović, M. Meisel, L. Fotiadis, S. Wilker, A. Treytl, and T. Sauter,
“Blockchain applications in microgrids an overview of current projects
and concepts,” in IECON 2017-43rd Annual Conference of the IEEE
Industrial Electronics Society. IEEE, 2017, pp. 6153–6158.
[4] T. Fernández-Caramés and P. Fraga-Lamas, “A review on the application
of blockchain to the next generation of cybersecure industry 4.0 smart
factories,” IEEE Access, vol. PP, pp. 1–1, 04 2019.
[5] A. Narayanan and J. Clark, “Bitcoin’s academic pedigree,” vol. 15, no. 4.
New York, NY, USA: ACM, aug 2017, pp. 20:20–20:49.
[6] T. Swanson, “Consensus-as-a-service: a brief report on the emergence
of permissioned, distributed ledger systems,” Apr 2015.
[7] N. Stifter, A. Judmayer, P. Schindler, A. Zamyatin, and E. Weippl,
“Agreement with satoshi - on the formalization of nakamoto consensus,”
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/400, 2018.
[8] J. Garay and A. Kiayias, “Sok: A consensus taxonomy in the blockchain
era,” Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2018/754, 2018.
[9] J. Bonneau, A. Miller, J. Clark, A. Narayanan, J. A. Kroll, and E. W.
Felten, “Sok: Research perspectives and challenges for bitcoin and
cryptocurrencies,” in IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2015.
[10] J. Garay, A. Kiayias, and N. Leonardos, “The bitcoin backbone protocol:
Analysis and applications,” in Advances in Cryptology-EUROCRYPT
2015. Springer, 2015, pp. 281–310.
[11] C. Natoli and V. Gramoli, “The blockchain anomaly,” in 15th IEEE
International Symposium on Network Computing and Applications.
IEEE, 2016, pp. 310–317.
[12] A. Gervais, G. O. Karame, K. Wüst, V. Glykantzis, H. Ritzdorf,
and S. Capkun, “On the security and performance of proof of work
blockchains,” in Proc. of the 2016 ACM SIGSAC. ACM, 2016.
[13] Y. Sompolinsky and A. Zohar, “Bitcoin’s security model revisited,” 2016.
[14] I. Eyal and E. G. Sirer, “Majority is not enough: Bitcoin mining is
vulnerable,” in Financial Cryptography and Data Security. Springer,
2014, pp. 436–454.
[15] A. Sapirshtein, Y. Sompolinsky, and A. Zohar, “Optimal selfish mining
strategies in bitcoin,” in Financial Cryptography and Data Security,
J. Grossklags and B. Preneel, Eds. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer Berlin
Heidelberg, 2017, pp. 515–532.
[16] R. Zhang and B. Preneel, “Lay down the common metrics: Evaluating
proof-of-work consensus protocols’ security,” in 2019 IEEE Symposium
on Security and Privacy, 2019.
[17] S. Azouvi and A. Hicks, “Sok: Tools for game theoretic models of
security for cryptocurrencies,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1905.08595, 2019.
[18] P. McCorry, A. Hicks, and S. Meiklejohn, “Smart contracts for bribing
miners,” in 5th Workshop on Bitcoin and Blockchain Research, Financial
Cryptography and Data Security 18 (FC). Springer, 2018.
[19] J. Ullrich, N. Stifter, A. Judmayer, A. Dabrowski, and E. Weippl, “Proof-
of-blackouts? how proof-of-work cryptocurrencies could affect power
grids,” in International Symposium on Research in Attacks, Intrusions,
and Defenses. Springer, 2018, pp. 184–203.
[20] M. Apostolaki, A. Zohar, and L. Vanbever, “Hijacking bitcoin: Routing
attacks on cryptocurrencies,” in 2017 IEEE Symposium on Security and
Privacy (SP), May 2017, pp. 375–392.
[21] K. Wüst and A. Gervais, “Do you need a blockchain?” in 2018 Crypto
Valley Conference on Blockchain Technology (CVCBT). IEEE, 2018.
[22] S. Klein and W. Prinz, “A use case identification framework and use case
canvas for identifying and exploring relevant blockchain opportunities,”
in Proceedings of 1st ERCIM Blockchain Workshop 2018. European
Society for Socially Embedded Technologies (EUSSET), 2018.
[23] C. Cachin and M. Vukolić, “Blockchain consensus protocols in the wild,”
arXiv:1707.01873, 2017, accessed:2017-09-26.
[24] M. Vukolić, “The quest for scalable blockchain fabric: Proof-of-work
vs. bft replication,” in International Workshop on Open Problems in
Network Security. Springer, 2015, pp. 112–125.
[25] K. Koumidis, P. Kolios, and C. Panayiotou, “Optimizing blockchain for
data integrity in cyber physical systems,” 01 2018, pp. 73–80.
[26] I. Eyal and E. G. Sirer, “How to Disincentivize Large Bitcoin Mining
Pools,” Available: (http://hackingdistributed.com/2014/06/18/how-to-
disincentivize-large-bitcoin-mining-pools), [Accessed: 12-July-2019].
[27] Y. Yan, B. Duan, Y. Zhong, and X. Qu, “Blockchain technology in
the internet plus: The collaborative development of power electronic
devices,” in IECON 2017-43rd Annual Conference of the IEEE Industrial
Electronics Society. IEEE, 2017, pp. 922–927.
[28] G. Liang, S. R. Weller, F. Luo, J. Zhao, and Z. Y. Dong, “Distributed
blockchain-based data protection framework for modern power systems
against cyber attacks,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 3,
pp. 3162–3173, May 2019.
[29] J. Wan, J. Li, M. Imran, D. Li, and F. e-Amin, “A blockchain-based
solution for enhancing security and privacy in smart factory,” IEEE
Transactions on Industrial Informatics, pp. 1–1, 2019.
[30] M. Castro, B. Liskov et al., “Practical byzantine fault tolerance,” in
OSDI, vol. 99, 1999, pp. 173–186.
1626
Powered by TCPDF (www.tcpdf.org)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:15 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.