Introducing a Fair Tax Method to Harden Industrial Blockchain Applications against Network Attacks: A Game Theory Approach
Citation: Stodt, F.; Reich, C.
Introducing a Fair Tax Method to
Harden Industrial Blockchain
Applications against Network
Attacks: A Game Theory Approach.
Computers 2023, 12, 64. https://
doi.org/10.3390/computers12030064
Academic Editors: Yu Chen, Sachin
Shetty and Shantanu Pal
Received: 21 February 2023
Revised: 13 March 2023
Accepted: 15 March 2023
Published: 16 March 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
computers
Article
Introducing a Fair Tax Method to Harden Industrial Blockchain
Applications against Network Attacks: A Game
Theory Approach
Fatemeh Stodt * and Christoph Reich *
Institute for Data Science, Cloud Computing and IT Security, Furtwangen University of Applied Sciences,
78120 Furtwangen im Schwarzwald, Germany
* Correspondence: fatemeh.stodt@hs-furtwangen.de (F.S.); christoph.reich@hs-furtwangen.de (C.R.)
Abstract: Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) systems are enhancing the delivery of services and
boosting productivity in a wide array of industries, from manufacturing to healthcare. However,
IIoT devices are susceptible to cyber-threats such as the leaking of important information, products
becoming compromised, and damage to industrial controls. Recently, blockchain technology has
been used to increase the trust between stakeholders collaborating in the supply chain in order to
preserve privacy, ensure the provenance of material, provide machine-led maintenance, etc. In all
cases, such industrial blockchains establish a novel foundation of trust for business transactions which
could potentially streamline and expedite economic processes to a significant extent. This paper
presents an examination of “Schloss”, an industrial blockchain system architecture designed for multi-
factory environments. It proposes an innovative solution to increase trust in industrial networks by
incorporating a fairness concept as a subsystem of an industrial blockchain. The proposed mechanism
leverages the concept of taxes imposed on blockchain nodes to enforce ethical conduct and discipline
among participants. In this paper, we propose a game theory-based mechanism to address security
and trust difficulties in industrial networks. The mechanism, inspired by the ultimatum game,
progressively punishes malicious actors to increase the cost of fraud, improve the compensation
system, and utilise the reward reporting capabilities of blockchain technology to further discourage
fraudulent activities. Furthermore, the blockchain’s incentive structure is utilised to reduce collusion
and speed up the process of reaching equilibrium, thereby promoting a secure and trustworthy
environment for industrial collaboration. The objective of this paper is to address lack of trust among
industrial partners and introduce a solution that brings security and trust to the forefront of industrial
blockchain applications.
Keywords: blockchain; Industry 4.0; IIoT; trust management; game theory; tax
1. Introduction
The rise of digitisation in industrial production environments as part of Industry 4.0
and the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) has led to the development of various modern
use cases. These use cases include distributed production, external machine condition
monitoring, machine maintenance by third parties, and spare part delivery on demand [1].
However, in order to ensure smooth operations it is crucial for all components, operators,
managers, integrators, and stakeholders to work together seamlessly. Moreover, different
situations require different levels of security and prioritisation within these systems.
Artificial intelligence (AI) is transforming the cybersecurity landscape by enhancing
the capabilities of blockchain management systems and process mining approaches [2].
With the increasing complexity and volume of cyberthreats, blockchain-based security
solutions are becoming more prevalent [3]. AI-powered blockchain management systems
can detect and prevent cyberattacks by analysing patterns in data and identifying potential
threats [4]. Additionally, the integration of blockchain in Industry 4.0 applications has
Computers 2023, 12, 64. https://doi.org/10.3390/computers12030064 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/computers
https://doi.org/10.3390/computers12030064
https://doi.org/10.3390/computers12030064
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/computers
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0863-0907
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9831-2181
https://doi.org/10.3390/computers12030064
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/computers
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/computers12030064?type=check_update&version=1
Computers 2023, 12, 64 2 of 16
enabled process mining approaches that leverage AI to enhance cybersecurity [5]. By
analysing transactional data on the blockchain, AI-powered process mining can detect
anomalies and prevent fraudulent activity, thereby strengthening the security of industrial
systems [6]. Overall, the combination of AI and blockchain is a promising approach to
improving cybersecurity in various industries [7].
Maintaining the reliability and security of IIoT networks is essential for long-term
success. Blockchain technology has emerged as a key tool in managing the risks associated
with these networks. By combining cybersecurity measures, assurance services, and best
practices, blockchain networks can minimise the risk of attacks and fraud [8]. However,
it is important to note that security in a blockchain network depends on the behaviour
of system participants, not just the technology itself [9]. Although traditional industrial
networks such as Modbus, Profinet, KNX, CanBus, BacNet, and EtherCat remain widely
used in Industry 4.0 and are unlikely to be replaced entirely by blockchain-based networks,
integrating blockchain technology with these networks through gateways or adapters
can provide secure and scalable data exchange while maintaining the functionality of
existing networks.
In the context of IIoT, blockchain technology provides a decentralised and secure
infrastructure for data exchange, enabling secure and efficient machine-to-machine com-
munication. It can be used to incentivise positive behaviour among system participants
and establish a fair taxation system for resource distribution. Therefore, the combination
of IIoT and blockchain technology offers a promising solution for enhancing the security,
scalability, and efficiency of industrial production environments.
To regulate the behaviour of participants in an industrial blockchain network, a
non-cash-incentive taxation system can be implemented to fund a reward system that
incentivises positive behaviour and penalises immoral behaviour. In this sense, blockchain
networks can be seen as distributed networks similar to human societies, especially when
considering the growing interconnectedness of IoT devices and the expanding networks
they are a part of.
Fairness in computer networks deals with the allocation of resources across applica-
tions; fairness is achieved when resources are distributed equitably [10]. The investigation
of fairness in computer networks serves two purposes: first, to improve network behaviour
by promoting equitable resource distribution, and second, to enable new fair applications
that are currently not feasible in existing networks. The distributed nature of blockchain
networks can be compared to social behaviour [11]; fairness can be established in the
network through a taxation system. The aim of this paper is to introduce a fair taxation
system in a blockchain network as a subsystem of the Schloss system architecture [12]. The
Schloss system architecture seeks to establish collaboration between industrial networks in
a distributed manner. This project introduces a distributed blockchain-based architecture
for IIoT that incorporates a measuring system to evaluate the behaviour and trustworthi-
ness of nodes in the network, thereby creating a trustworthy environment within which
different participants in industrial processes can collaborate.
The key contributions of this paper are:
• A taxation scheme for blockchain participants to deter malicious attacks.
• The introduction of a game theory mechanism within the network to establish fairness
among nodes.
The rest of this paper is structured as follows: Section 2 reviews related works in the
field; Section 3 outlines the system issues and objectives; Section 4 explains the schema
design; Section 5 addresses security concerns; and Section 6 provides the conclusions.
2. State of the Art
The issue of fairness in the rapidly developing world of new technologies, especially
with the growth of AI and IoT, has sparked many discussions and debates. In their research,
Huelsen et al. highlighted the vulnerabilities in social networks, IoT, blockchain, and AI,
Computers 2023, 12, 64 3 of 16
and stressed the importance of considering fairness problems associated with these new
technologies [13].
As a result, researchers have been searching for solutions to address fairness in net-
works. Li et al. proposed an IoT security threat model that uses deep learning to create
a fair environment by autonomously learning from attacks [14]. Additionally, Hu et al.
discussed the vulnerability of trust relationships between network nodes and introduced
a blockchain-based software-defined network architecture that rewards nodes based on
contract theory to achieve fairness [15].
Fairness is a critical aspect of network design and operations; it entails ensuring that
all nodes have an equal opportunity to perform tasks based on their computational capacity.
Wang et al. proposed an information exchange protocol for IoT devices that uses entropy
measurement in rational information exchange protocols to promote fairness [16]. The
authors argued that this protocol can enable IoT devices to interact fairly, making it possible
to achieve a higher level of efficiency and security.
In the healthcare industry, fairness is crucial to the provision of quality services.
Nwebonyi et al. proposed a protocol for ensuring fairness and security in IoT-driven
healthcare by employing a blockchain-based approach [17]. The authors suggested that
blockchain technology could be used to ensure that all stakeholders in the healthcare
industry have equal access to data while at the same time preserving privacy and security.
Efficient management of industrial IoT data is another critical area where fairness
is required. Jiang et al. suggested a heuristic and min-heap-based optimal algorithm for
putting industrial IoT data into permissioned blockchains [18]. The proposed algorithm is
designed to ensure that all nodes have equal access to data and computational resources.
By promoting fairness in the distribution of data, the authors argued that this algorithm
can contribute to the overall efficiency of the system.
IoT devices are designed to maximise their value while ensuring security within the
constraints of their hardware and software. One approach to understanding the behaviour
of these devices is to view them through the lens of game theory, which considers the
strategic interactions of rational actors in situations of conflict or cooperation [19]. By mod-
elling the behaviour of IoT devices as rational, game theory can provide insights into their
decision-making processes and help identify strategies for achieving desirable outcomes.
However, the use of game theory in the context of IoT networks is not without
challenges. For instance, a key problem is preventing cheating and fraud in the process
of issuing transactions [20]. Researchers have proposed various approaches to address
this issue, including the use of smart contracts and consensus mechanisms to ensure the
integrity of transactions [21].
Game theory has been applied to discussions on taxation as well, with a focus on pre-
venting tax evasion. Research in this area has explored various strategies for incentivising
compliance and discouraging fraud, such as increasing penalties for non-compliance or
introducing rewards for good behaviour [22,23]. By leveraging game theory and related
tools, researchers can gain a deeper understanding of the challenges involved in securing
IoT networks and develop more effective solutions to address these challenges.
Blockchain technology has gained widespread attention for its potential to increase the
efficiency of asset management and to reduce transaction costs in the commercial banking
sector [24]. Beyond the financial industry, numerous studies have explored the potential
applications of blockchain technology to improve efficiency and fairness in other areas,
including taxation. For instance, Sogaard et al. investigated the use of blockchains to
reduce administrative burden and enhance transparency in tax administration [25]. Alzubi
et al. proposed a modified blockchain-based tax compliance framework that integrates
smart contracts and machine learning to achieve fairness and transparency [26]. Similarly,
Yayman et al. proposed a blockchain-based solution to enhance tax compliance and reduce
fraud in the tourism industry [27]. Wang et al. explored the application of blockchain
technology in the field of e-government and proposed an architecture for secure and
transparent tax collection and management [28]. In addition, Ayyappath et al. presented a
Computers 2023, 12, 64 4 of 16
design framework for a blockchain-based tax compliance system that incorporates game
theory and smart contracts to promote fairness and transparency [29]. Finally, Pelaez et al.
investigated the potential of blockchain technology to improve the fairness and efficiency
of the tax collection process by enhancing transparency and reducing corruption [30].
However, despite the focus on using blockchain for taxation purposes, no one has
previously proposed using taxation-inspired methods as part of a blockchain network to
achieve greater fairness for participants.
3. Attack Vectors and Challenges for Blockchain Applications
3.1. Security Risks
The security of blockchain technology is often praised as being very strong; however,
it is directly tied to the amount of hash power supporting the network. In this section,
we discuss the most common attack scenarios against blockchain systems. The issue
with blockchains is that majority power can have a negative impact. This is because the
blockchain operates on a consensus system in which all decisions are made by a majority
of the nodes. Unfortunately, this means that nodes with a majority of computational power
or stake can take advantage of this to make decisions that suit their own interests.
3.1.1. Sybil Attack
The Sybil attack scenario involves three types of nodes: honest, Sybil, and attacker
nodes, as depicted in Figure 1. To carry out the attack, the attacker creates multiple Sybil
nodes and connects them to honest nodes, thereby disrupting the authentic connections
between honest nodes in the P2P network. When the attacker acquires a disproportionate
level of control over the P2P network, they can take control of it. The attacker can then use
their Sybil nodes and an attack method to launch various threats that harm the reputation
system of the P2P network.
Honest nodes Sybil nodes
Disconnected honest
nodes from main network
Attacker
node
Figure 1. Sybil attack scenario in a P2P network.
In a distributed network, an attacker can carry out two different types of Sybil attacks,
known as “Sybil community” and “Scattered Sybil”.
In the case of a “Sybil community” attack, as illustrated in Figure 2a, the attacker
creates many connections within the Sybil community, meaning that Sybil nodes are
strongly connected to each other. However, the Sybil community has limited ability to
connect with trustworthy nodes. In other words, there are only a few connections between
Sybil nodes and honest nodes.
Industrial Blockchain Issue 1: In industrial networks or blockchain, attackers may try
to introduce a Sybil community as a new sub-network or small company in the industrial
network in order to launch a Sybil attack against the industrial blockchain.
A “Scattered Sybil” attack involves attackers present in multiple domains, as shown
in Figure 2b. Unlike a Sybil community attack, a scattered Sybil attack is able to form
connections with regular users in addition to those with other Sybil identities. This ability
Computers 2023, 12, 64 5 of 16
to imitate the social structure of a typical user makes scattered Sybil attacks particularly
dangerous, as attackers can gain access to many honest nodes.
Honest nodes Sybil nodes
H
on
es
t n
od
es
(a) Sybil community
Sub-network 1 Sub-network 2
Su
b-
ne
tw
or
k 
3
(b) Scattered Sybil
Figure 2. Sybil attack.
Industrial Blockchain Issue 2: In industrial networks or blockchains, attackers may
attempt to spread out their Sybil nodes across different sub-networks or organisations in
order to gain varying access to honest nodes and eventually infect the entire network with
Sybil nodes.
3.1.2. Double-Spend Attack
In a double-spend attack, an attacker attempts to create a separate ledger version by
forking the original blockchain (Figure 3a). Blocks are then generated on this new ledger
without sharing it with the public blockchain network. This results in two different ledgers,
one controlled by the attacker and the other by the honest nodes.
When the attacker pays for a product, they transfer the money to the seller. However,
they only spend the money on the honest nodes’ ledger, not on their secret ledger. The
network’s nodes always consider the longest chain to be the valid one (Figure 3b). If the
attacker gains more computational power and builds a longer chain faster, the honest nodes
will eventually accept the attacker’s chain as the valid one.
As a result, the transaction accounting for the money is no longer on the chain, while
the attacker has already received the merchandise, leaving the seller without payment. The
attacker is then free to use the money for other purposes.
0 B
10 B
(a)
0 B
10 B
(b)
Figure 3. Ledger state in a Double-Spend attack. (a) Create a separate ledger version by forking the
original blockchain by attacker. (b) Takeover the main chain by attacker.
Computers 2023, 12, 64 6 of 16
3.1.3. 51% Attack
The 51% attack is the most lethal hash rate-based attack on a blockchain [31]. As an
example, numerous alternative cryptocurrencies (alt-coins) with vastly different market
capitalisations have been introduced. This has made 51% assaults against alt-coins plausible,
as only a small percentage of miners from larger currencies must transfer to a smaller
currency in order to control 51% of the network hash rate of the smaller coin. This has led to
the development of economic models that take into account the motivations for launching
a 51% assault in a world where a sufficient hash-rate can be obtained if the attacker is
prepared to pay [32]. These theories imply that successful attacks must be either lucrative
or break even unless miners have significant fixed expenses connected with their mining
gear that cannot be recovered in the event of an attack.
Table 1 shows a summary of related attacks on blockchain networks and analyses the
nodes’ behaviour in the different attack cases. By studying the behaviour of the nodes, it is
possible to consider their specific behaviours, which can provide useful hints for designing
a mechanism to prevent various attack types in the proposed Schloss system.
Table 1. Behavioural Comparison in Related Attacks.
Attack Name Features Attack Goal Nodes Behaviour Related
Issue
Sybil
Community
There are malicious nodes in the
same sub-network or community,
and the number of attack linkages to
honest nodes is restricted.
Intentionally upload malicious
transactions or wrong voting to
manipulate the entire system.
Behave as normal nodes and
regularly repeat certain behaviours.
Issue 1
Scattered Sybil Malicious nodes are spread in each
sub-network, and the number of
attack linkages to honest nodes is
higher.
Distribute spam and malware in
order to launch other attacks, or
invade the privacy of other users.
Intentionally repeat a certain
behaviour often.
Issue 2
Double-Spend The hidden fork must be mined
faster than the original blockchain.
The danger that a cryptocurrency
may be used twice or more is
known as double-spending.
No activity or updates from nodes
for quite some time.
Issue 3
51% Attack A group of miner nodes that control
over 50% of the network’s mining
hash rate or stake.
Prohibit other miners from
publishing blocks if they control the
majority of the power on the
network.
According to Ethereum statistics,
the longest chain of mined blocks
by the same mining pool equates to
17 blocks, which happens with a
frequency of 0.000008% over a
given time [33].
Issue 3
Industrial Blockchain Issue 3: Considering an industrial blockchain network, it is
necessary to keep newly joined accounts and miners under supervision in order to prevent
a 51% attack. Due to the smaller size of industrial blockchain networks, it is easier to obtain
a majority; therefore, such networks are even more vulnerable to this type of attack.
3.2. Inflation
Incentive mechanisms represent a solution that can ensure nodes’ good behaviour.
The idea of providing rewards to the most trustworthy nodes, it is possible to encourage
them to maintain good behaviour. Problems may arise, however, when the blockchain
needs to provide the nodes with their reward.
Consider a blockchain network in which payment of currencies to nodes is required for
each mining block or operation and there is no limit to the quantity of coins in the network.
This results in network inflation [34], meaning that the blockchain loses its value; thus, it
is forced to issue more coins to complete tasks, further depreciating the coins’ worth. For
this reason, a new kind of digital money called a stablecoin is gaining popularity. However,
if a stable-coin is linked to a particular fiat currency it is subject to inflation in the reserve
currency, and may ultimately lose value as the this currency depreciates. Thus, in order
to govern a blockchain network there must be a finite currency supply and a method of
circulating money inside the blockchain without inducing inflation.
Computers 2023, 12, 64 7 of 16
Industrial Blockchain Issue 4: In the case of industrial networks, the production
of an infinite number of coins via the industrial blockchain would result in inflation. If
the fairness is merely determined by the amount of money and all spending is on node
transactions, the wealthiest firms always enjoy the majority of network power.
4. Fairness Solution
To understand the security vulnerabilities and issues in a network, the impact of
malicious node behaviour can be evaluated by examining Tables 1 and 2. The behaviour of
nodes in a network can reveal their underlying intentions. To ensure that the network is
trustworthy, it is essential to create a strategy and mechanism design that incentivises good
behaviour among nodes. Mechanism design theory involves designing mechanisms that
produce desired outcomes and takes into account the individual incentives and motivations
of nodes. To encourage trustworthy behaviour, a fairness-based taxation approach can be
applied to network nodes. This creates an incentive mechanism by making it advantageous
for nodes to act in a trustworthy manner. Game theory can be used to determine the best
strategy for each type of node and develop the mechanism to achieve the overall objective
of a secure network.
Table 2. Overview of the issues.
Industrial Blockchain Issue Effect on System
Issue 1 Scattered Sybil attacks involving attackers present in multiple
industrial sub-networks
Issue 2 Double-Spend attacks
Issue 3 51% attacks and majority attacks
Issue 4 Inflation in case of new coins created for rewards
4.1. Methodology of Game Theory: Main Features and Pillars
Game theory is a mathematical framework used to model strategic interactions be-
tween rational decision-makers. The main features of game theory include the use of formal
models to represent interactions, the assumption of rationality on the part of players, and
the analysis of outcomes in terms of payoffs or utilities. The following pillars form the
foundation of game theory:
Players: Game theory assumes that there are at least two players involved in a strategic
interaction. These players can be individuals, groups, or even countries.
Actions: Players have a set of possible actions available to them, and they choose an
action based on their preferences and beliefs about the other players’ actions.
Payoffs: The outcome of a game is measured in terms of payoffs or utilities. These
payoffs represent the benefits or costs to each player from the various possible outcomes.
Information: Players may have different levels of information about the game and
the other players. Game theory distinguishes between complete information games in
which all players know all aspects of the game, and incomplete information games in which
certain aspects of the game are unknown to certain players.
Strategies: Players can adopt different strategies based on their preferences and beliefs.
A strategy is a plan of action that a player chooses in order to achieve their objectives.
Equilibrium: A solution to a game is an equilibrium, where each player’s strategy is a
best response to the strategies of the other players. The most commonly studied type of
equilibrium in game theory is the Nash equilibrium, where no player has an incentive to
deviate from their strategy given the strategies of the other players.
In summary, game theory provides a powerful tool for analysing strategic interactions
between rational decisionmakers. By modelling interactions between players, their possible
actions, and the outcomes of those actions, game theory allows us to understand and predict
behaviour in a wide range of settings, from economics and politics to social interactions
and evolutionary biology
Computers 2023, 12, 64 8 of 16
4.2. Definition of the Game
A system for fair taxation establishes the foundation for an ultimatum bargaining
game [35] based on concerns about the network’s goals and the fairness of charging network
nodes. The ultimatum game (Figure 4) has grown in popularity as a tool for economic
experimentation. The ultimate game can be modelled as follows:
Actors: Each node in the network can be considered as an actor.
Strategy: Each node has two strategies, i.e., to be either trustworthy or malicious.
Payoffs: The payoffs for each node can be modelled as follows:
1. If a node is trustworthy, it receives a reward in the form of a fraction of the tax
collected from all the nodes in the network.
2. If a node is malicious, it incurs a punishment in the form of the blocking of
its deposit.
Game Formulation: The game can be formulated as a two-player non-cooperative game
where each node is a player and its strategy is to either be trustworthy or malicious.
The payouts for each player depend on the strategies of all the players in the network.
Game Solution: The Nash equilibrium, where each node chooses its strategy such that
it cannot improve its payoffs by changing its strategy unilaterally, is the solution to
the game.
Proposer
Fair Unfair
Responder
Accept Reject
(0,0)(d, 1-d)
(0.5, 0.5)
Figure 4. Extensive version of the mini-ultimate game.
Here, we explore a straightforward scenario with two players (notation and definitions
are defined in Table 3), the full node of the blockchain as Proposer (P) and the light node
in the blockchain as Responder (R). Considering a tax relationship in which P wishes
to suggest a tax for an item from R and the profit (PF) created by the deal is more than
zero (PF > 0), we suppose that there are two feasible outcomes and that each player has
a preference for one of them. Let PFθ ∈ [0, PF] and θ ∈ {P, R} denote the trade profit
achieved by Player P in outcome θ, and Player R denote the excess realised by Player P
in outcome θ. We assume, without sacrificing generality, that PFP > PFR. In this example,
Player P prefers result P, while Player R prefers result R. For the sake of clarity, we
suppose that they barter over the likelihood of each player being picked to execute his or
her proposed conclusion. The game’s timing is as follows:
1. Player P distributes the probabilities of achieving the preferred outcome (θpre f ered) by
selecting θpre f ered[0, 1]; the probability that Player P will implement their own desired
result is (1− θpre f ered), with the probability that Player R will implement θpre f ered
being their ideal result.
2. Player R evaluates their probability of achieving the desired result and may accept or
reject it.
Computers 2023, 12, 64 9 of 16
3. The ambiguity is resolved, with payoffs (x, y)− x being realised for Player P and
payoffs y being realised for Player R. If Player R accepts and Player P is able to
achieve the desired result, the payoffs are (PFP, (PF− PFP)). If Player R accepts and
is able to carry out the selected result, the payoffs are (PFR, (PF− PFR)). If Player R
is rejected, there is no trade, and the payoffs are be (0, 0).
Table 3. Notation and definitions.
Symbol Definition
PF Profit
θ Outcome
θpre f ered Prefer outcome
Ienvy Aversion to disadvantageous inequality
Iguil Aversion to advantageous inequality
In Step 1, Player P has the complete opportunity to implement their own preferred
outcome. In Step 2, standard game-theoretic reasoning predicts that Player R will take any
opportunity to achieve their own chosen result. Below is the utility function based on the
fairness model of Fehr and Schmit [36]. The utility function is as follows:
ũ(x, y) = x− Ienvy.max[0, y− x]− Iguil .max[0, x− y] (1)
which assumes that Ienvy ≥ Iguil ≥ 0 and Iguil ≤ 1.
Considering risk aversion utility function ν(x), where r is the risk tolerance parameter,
we have
ũ(x, y) = ν(x) + x− Ienvy.max[0, y− x]− Iguil .max[0, x− y] (2)
where r < 1 denotes risk aversion and r > 1 denotes risk-preferring tendencies. The overall
risk preferences do not exhibit constant relative risk aversion unless Iguil = 1, meaning that
we are in the domain of advantageous inequality. Based on [37] for all Iguil ∈ [0, 1] and 2,
the fairness of the expected outcome is equal to
Ω(F) = u(E[x], E[y]). (3)
Considering (3), the players assess the utility function’s own-payoff component using
anticipated values. Because a proposed allocation of θpre f ered = 1/2 ensures expectation
payoff equality, a rational Player P never offers more than this to Player R in equilibrium;
therefore, it is better to focus on θpre f ered < 1/2. In this case, the predicted inequality is
detrimental to R.
Considering Satio’s model [38], for anticipated inequality averse players, players
assess their own reward in terms of expected utility; R will accept the suggestion in this
circumstance if and only if
ur = θpre f ered.PFr + θpre f ered.PF− IenvyR .PF(1− 2 ∗ θpre f ered) ≥ 0. (4)
The minimal level of approval for R is
θpre f ered ≥
IenvyR
(1 + 2 ∗ IenvyR + PFr−1)
. (5)
In this case, the utility of p is:
up = (1− θpre f ered).PFr + (1− θpre f ered).PF− Iguilp .PF(1− 2 ∗ θpre f ered) ≥ 0. (6)
Computers 2023, 12, 64 10 of 16
The utility in (6) is positive even if θpre f ered = 0 and Iguilp = 1. Thus, the participants
are more likely to reach an agreement, and on average the minimal acceptance thresholds
for standard and hazardous ultimatum games should be identical.
Game theory plays a crucial role in the proposed mechanism. Each node in the network
is viewed as an actor, and has two strategies, namely, to be either trustworthy or malicious.
The payoffs for each node can be modelled as follows: if a node is trustworthy, it receives a
reward R that is a fraction of the tax collected from all the nodes in the network. On the
other hand, if a node is malicious it incurs a punishment P in the form of the blocking of
its deposit.
The game is formulated as a two-player non-cooperative game, where each node
is a player and its strategy is to either be trustworthy or malicious. The mathematical
formulation of the game can be expressed as a matrix, where each row represents the
payoffs for a node when it is trustworthy and each column represents the payoffs for a
node when it is malicious. The Nash Equilibrium, where each node chooses its strategy
such that it cannot improve its payoffs by changing its strategy unilaterally, is the solution
to the game. In this case, no node has any incentive to deviate from its chosen strategy, as
this could only result in a worse outcome.
4.3. Main Procedure: The Mini-Ultimatum Game
The proposed mechanism aims to address the issues of inflation and dominance of
powerful nodes by incorporating a tax rate, which is calculated based on the amount
of money in each light node’s wallet. The network takes into account the possibility of
punishment and makes it more difficult for malicious actors to target nodes.
The proposed procedure for our system is depicted in Figure 5 and comprises six
steps that are performed for each epoch. These steps are carried out by full nodes that
act as committee members responsible for running the incentive mechanism. In order to
determine the fair amount of tax that each light node should pay, the committee members
use game theory concepts that take into account the light node’s behaviour and wallet
balance within the network.
More specifically, the game theory approach employed in our system is designed to
incentivise light nodes to behave in a way that benefits the overall network while ensuring
fairness and transparency in the tax collection process. To achieve this goal, the committee
members use a token-based mechanism (TMS) design that suggests the appropriate tax
amount for each light node based on its performance in the network.
The TMS algorithm takes into account a range of factors, including the light node’s
transaction history, network activity, and overall contribution to the network’s security and
stability. This information is used to generate a score for each light node, which is then
used to determine the amount of tax it should pay. Using this approach, the tax collection
process is fair and transparent and the light nodes are incentivised to contribute positively
to the network.
Algorithm 1, “Initialise”, sets up the necessary parameters such as the certificate status,
ledger, and wallet amounts for each participant. It checks whether the ledger is positive
and whether each participant’s wallet is equal to or greater than a certain amount; then, it
sets the participants, subtracts a specific amount from the full node’s wallet, and sets the
deposit and reward amounts.
Computers 2023, 12, 64 11 of 16
full node
light node
(D1)
light node
(D3)
light node
(D2)
The strategy part of mechanism:
To be sure light nodes rates
honestly
Step 1- Initialize
1-1) Full-node set the n=voter group (light nodes that have a valid
certificate and no anomaly report from rule analyzer). 
1-2)Full node set the deposit amount= D, reward amount= R and
Constant number= C.
With the deposit, we make it costly for
attackers to change the majority vote.
Step 3 - Voting Step
Each eligible light node, that paid a deposit, sends a preference list
with trust rate
For example, the full node will receive the following lists:
List D3:
(D2, 0.9)
(D1, 0.6) 
List D2:
(D3, 0.8)
(D1, 0.5) 
List D1:
(D2, 0.8)
(D3, 0.7) 
Step 4 - Election Calculation
3-1) full node receives all the preference lists from all light nodes.
3-2) it runs Schulze based on inputs and obtains a preference list of
all light nodes.
Step 5 -  Send the list to TMS 
Step 2 - calculation of Expected payoff
 Each light node calculate the expected payoff value for voting, based
on probability of win reward= P1, probability of just return deposit=P2,
and probability of losing =P3  based on history of results for each light
node.
 
Step 6 - Payoff
5-1) get trust value of each device from block
5-2) decide for Punishment or incentive
...
After a while, that TMS calculate trust
value with all the factors.
Punishment/ incentive mechanism for
light nodes to move in an honest way.
Figure 5. Extensive version of the mini-ultimate game.
Algorithm 1 Initialise
Input: Eligible Nodes, Certificate Status, Rule Anomaly Status, Ledger, FullNode, LNi, BD,
D, C
1: state← “Init”
2: if Ledger[FullNode] < 0 then
3: return False
4: end if
5: for i ∈ LNi do
6: if wallet[i] < D then
7: return False
8: end if
9: end for
10: participants← LNi
11: CandidateGroup← LNi
12: wallet[FullNode]← wallet[FullNode]− ΣR
13: deposit← D
14: reward← R
15: constant← C
16: for i ∈ LNi do
17: wallet[i]← wallet[i]− D
18: end for
19: state← “PayoffCalculation”
20: return True
Computers 2023, 12, 64 12 of 16
Algorithm 2, “Expected Payoff Calculation”, calculates the expected payoff for each
participant by adding and subtracting specific amounts and dividing by the number of
participants. The result is stored as “ExpectedPayoff”.
Algorithm 2 Expected Payoff Calculation
Input: Participants, Reward, Constant, Deposit, P1, P2, P3
1: Initialise:
2: a. Set p1, p2, and p3.
3: b. Calculate the expected payoff:
4: expected payoff =
(
Reward
(number of participants·Constant) + Deposit · p1
)
+(Deposit · P2)−
(Deposit · p3)
5: c. Store the result in a variable “ExpectedPayoff”.
Algorithm 3 is the main algorithm; it takes inputs from the other two algorithms and
other sources and outputs the “Trusty Nodes” and “Rewards”. It starts by setting the
reward and deposit amounts, running the Tax algorithm to announce the tax amount to
the light nodes, and applying send transactions for each light node, then calculates the
expected payoff and sends the deposit to the blockchain.
The algorithm collects the preference lists of all nodes and runs the Schulze algorithm
to determine the trust value of each node. The top 10% of trustworthy nodes are selected
and rewarded, malicious nodes with low trust values have their deposits blocked, and
trustworthy nodes have their deposits returned.
Algorithm 3 Algorithm for Incentivising Good Behaviour in the Network
Input: Epochs, Initialise algorithm, Tax algorithm, Expected Payoff algorithm, Schulze algorithm,
TMS
Output: Trusty Nodes, Rewards
1: for each epoch do
2: Get input from Initialise algorithm
3: Set the reward as R, deposit as D, and constant number as C from full nodes to the network
4: Run Tax algorithm and announce tax amount to light nodes
5: for each light node per epoch do
6: while wallet amount > tax amount do
7: Apply send transaction
8: end while
9: Run Expected Payoff algorithm and send deposit to blockchain
10: end for
11: for each node that paid deposit do
12: Join the vote to the neighbours and create a preference list
13: end for
14: for each local network full node do
15: Receive all the preference lists from light nodes and run Schulze algorithm to obtain a
preference list of all light nodes
16: end for
17: for all full nodes in the network do
18: Collect the preference lists of all sub-networks as input for TMS
19: end for
20: Calculate the trust value for each node in the network using TMS
21: for each node in the network do
22: if node is malicious and has low trust value then
23: Block deposit
24: else if node is trustworthy then
25: Return deposit
26: end if
27: end for
28: Select the top 10% trusty nodes and pay reward to them
29: end for
Computers 2023, 12, 64 13 of 16
4.4. Real-World Use Case
Consider a real-world scenario where three stakeholders, A, B, and C, are part of a
decentralised industrial factory collaboration. A, B, and C are expected to behave well;
however, bad behaviour may nonetheless occur. Algorithm 1 sets up the necessary pa-
rameters for each participant, such as their wallet amounts and the deposit and reward
amounts. Algorithm 2 calculates the expected payout for each participant based on the
inputs received from Algorithm 1. Algorithm 3 takes the inputs from the other algorithms
and runs the necessary computations to determine the trust value of each node. Initially,
all three nodes are selected as trustworthy, and are rewarded accordingly.
However, after a few rounds of interactions, stakeholder B begins to provide false
inputs in an attempt to cheat the other stakeholders. This results in the trust value of
stakeholder B being reduced, and they are penalised accordingly. Over time, if stakeholder
B continues to engage in bad behaviour their trust value could decrease even further,
potentially resulting in their removal from the network.
Meanwhile, stakeholders A and C continue to behave well and provide accurate inputs,
resulting in their trust values increasing over time. As a result, they may receive more
responsibility within the network and potentially even be rewarded with additional benefits.
This demonstrates the importance of having a trust algorithm that is able to adapt to
changing circumstances and account for bad behaviour when it occurs while continuing to
reward good behaviour.
4.5. Advantages of Applying the Tax Game to Blockchains
The purpose of this paper is to propose a tax mechanism based on game theory for
enhancing trustworthiness in industrial blockchains. To the best of our knowledge, the
incorporation of taxation into blockchains has not been previously explored. The tax
mechanism proposed in this paper operates on a per-account basis and applies to all node
activities, including those from malicious entities that enlist in the blockchain using fake
identities. The primary goals of this approach are to ensure fairness in node activities and
to prevent majority attacks.
The design of a blockchain tax should be guided by the following objectives:
1. Decentralisation: as the number of nodes in the network increases, centralised trust
management techniques may become infeasible. This strategy, informed by the trust
management system described in Schloss, employs a decentralised approach that
leverages full nodes and light nodes to distribute trust values and ensure system
stability and scalability.
2. Network fairness and balance: using trust values to assess nodes and impose taxes,
this mechanism helps to maintain honest nodes in the network. The combination of
being honest and facing an uncertain time limit presents a challenge for malicious
nodes, as it is contrary to their objective and causes harm to honest nodes.
3. Deterring and complicating the work of hackers and malicious agents: enrolling in and
paying taxes for an indefinite period of time while accounting for the production of
additional nodes for a majority attack is cost-prohibitive. Additionally, as participants
in this game are assumed to be rational, remaining in the network as a malevolent
entity is not advantageous or cost-effective.
5. Discussion and Security Analysis
This section discusses security aspects of the suggested technique.
Industrial Blockchain Issue Privacy: The use of private and public keys is a critical
component of blockchain privacy. To secure user transactions, blockchain systems use
asymmetric cryptography. In these systems, each user has a public and a private key.
These keys are cryptographically-linked random sequences of numbers. It is theoretically
impossible for a user to determine another user’s private key from their public key. This
makes hostile nodes unable to track an overlay node.
Computers 2023, 12, 64 14 of 16
Security: The blockchain is primarily responsible for the security of the design. Each
transaction in the blockchain is accompanied by a data hash, which protects the integrity
of the data. All transactions are encrypted using asymmetric encryption algorithms that
guarantee privacy. Consequently, the issues mentioned in Section 3 around an attacker
being able to seize control of nodes or the network addresses are addressed:
Addressing Industrial Blockchain Issue 1: Addressing the addition of a new small com-
pany or workshop with new devices, the new stakeholder must obtain the consent of
the private blockchain’s members and other stakeholders. In this situation, the danger of
establishing a Sybil community is too low, as members are unwilling to add an unknown
company. In the Schloss architecture, each node is rated based on its neighbours with
known trustworthy nodes. The network is then divided into two divisions depending
on the tax method’s test preference. These settings define the partition’s border, often
known as the “cutoff”. Hence, nodes that are firmly linked to honest reputable ones are
ranked higher.
Addressing Industrial Blockchain Issue 2: The purpose of a distributed Sybil attack is to
spread spam, ads, and malware, steal and breach users’ privacy, and intentionally influence
the reputation system. Malicious nodes in the network masquerade as regular users while
purposefully disseminating spam, ads, and viruses. In the proposed method for enrolling
new devices, which takes into account the mechanism’s design and the proposed technique,
new devices must register for voting, however, their vote is not yet taken into account;
instead, their behaviour is monitored for an undetermined number of iterations. The rogue
nodes have little effect on the network, as in order to have an effect to the node’s status it is
necessary to have numerous positive rates in order to overstate the target node or many
bad rates in order to undervalue it.
Addressing Industrial Blockchain Issue 3: In the case of a Sybil node, it is not advantageous
for an attacker to place devices in the network for a long amount of time while they are
behaving in an honest manner. Assuming that a malicious node will behave ethically,
eventually allowing it to vote and have its votes counted, it must pay a deposit and tax. In
the case of malicious voting, the deposit is stopped by the full nodes, and the malicious
node is placed back into the test cycle. Therefore, it is too expensive for an attacker to
maintain malicious nodes.
Addressing Industrial Blockchain Issue 4: The full nodes calculate the tax required for
each node to be permitted to vote. This is contingent on the budget required for rewarding
the most trustworthy nodes and the quantity of money in each node’s wallet. In this
situation, the blockchain prevents inflation and money circulation within the network.
While the tax is based on the amount of money in each wallet, it is less than the award,
prevents tax requests from being denied. Moreover, using a random integer N to test
newly enrolled devices prevents them from receiving network power. The network makes
decisions about who can operate the system by selecting the nodes that prove most reliable
over time. Table 4 shows a summary of related issues and then summarises the solutions
offered by proposed method.
Table 4. Summary of solutions offered by the proposed fairness system.
Issue Solution
Issue 1 Adding new members to the network requires consensus
Issue 2 Newly enrolled devices have their behavior monitored for an undetermined
number of iterations to minimize their effect on the network.
Issue 3 51% Requiring a deposit and monitoring the behavior of new nodes makes it
expensive for attackers to maintain malicious nodes in the network.
Issue 4 The full nodes calculate the tax for each node based on the amount of money in
their wallet, preventing inflation and money circulation.
Computers 2023, 12, 64 15 of 16
6. Conclusions
In conclusion, this paper presents a novel decentralised taxation mechanism that
incorporates a trust management system in an industrial network. By implementing the
Schloss subsystem, full nodes are able to assess the credibility of transactions based on
the trust values of all nodes stored on the blockchain. The tax is aggregated among the
full nodes and distributed based on the trust values and wallet status of each node. This
system provides a secure and reliable environment for all nodes to work together, and
prevents majority attacks and inflation within the blockchain. The exact tax amount and the
undisclosed iteration number ensure the integrity of the system. Our proposed mechanism
has the potential to establish a safe and efficient intelligent industrial network, and provides
an incentive structure that promotes fairness and reliability.
As a future research direction, we suggest investigating the potential role of sustain-
ability and digital transition issues in further developing the proposed mechanism. Further
research could explore how the proposed mechanism converges or diverges from other
approaches. The theoretical justification can be strengthened by discussing how the pro-
posed mechanism compares to previous methodological contributions. By addressing these
areas, the proposed mechanism can be further validated, contributing to the development
of more efficient and secure industrial networks.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, F.S.; writing—original draft preparation, F.S.; review and
editing, C.R. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by the Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) under
reference number COSMIC-X 02J21D144, and supervised by Projektträger Karlsruhe (PTKA).
Data Availability Statement: All data were presented in main text.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Massaro, A. Advanced Control Systems in Industry 5.0 Enabling Process Mining. Sensors 2022, 22, 8677. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
2. Obodoekwe, E.; Fang, X.; Lu, K. Convolutional neural networks in process mining and data analytics for prediction accuracy.
Electronics 2022, 11, 2128. [CrossRef]
3. Stodt, J.; Schönle, D.; Reich, C.; Ghovanlooy Ghajar, F.; Welte, D.; Sikora, A. Security audit of a blockchain-based industrial
application platform. Algorithms 2021, 14, 121. [CrossRef]
4. Abdullahi, M.; Baashar, Y.; Alhussian, H.; Alwadain, A.; Aziz, N.; Capretz, L.F.; Abdulkadir, S.J. Detecting cybersecurity attacks
in internet of things using artificial intelligence methods: A systematic literature review. Electronics 2022, 11, 198.
5. Massaro, A.; Gargaro, M.; Dipierro, G.; Galiano, A.M.; Buonopane, S. Prototype cross platform oriented on cybersecurity, virtual
connectivity, big data and artificial intelligence control. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 197939–197954. [CrossRef]
6. de Campos Souza, P.V.; Guimarães, A.J.; Rezende, T.S.; Silva Araujo, V.J.; Araujo, V.S. Detection of anomalies in large-scale
cyberattacks using fuzzy neural networks. AI 2020, 1, 5. [CrossRef]
7. Stodt, J.; Stodt, F.; Reich, C.; Clarke, N. Verifiable Machine Learning Models in Industrial IoT via Blockchain. In Proceedings of
the 12th International Advanced Computing Conference, Hyderabad, Telangana, 16–17 December 2022.
8. Stodt, F.; Stodt, J.; Reich, C. Blockchain Secured Dynamic Machine Learning Pipeline for Manufacturing. Appl. Sci. 2023, 13, 782.
[CrossRef]
9. Ferretti, M.; Nicolazzo, S.; Nocera, A. H2O: Secure Interactions in IoT via Behavioral Fingerprinting. Future Internet 2021, 13, 117.
[CrossRef]
10. Denda, R.; Banchs, A.; Effelsberg, W. The fairness challenge in computer networks. In Proceedings of the International Workshop
on Quality of Future Internet Services, Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 25–26 September 2000; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg,
Germany, 2000; pp. 208–220.
11. Monrat, A.A.; Schelén, O.; Andersson, K. A survey of blockchain from the perspectives of applications, challenges, and
opportunities. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 117134–117151. [CrossRef]
12. Ghovanlooy Ghajar, F.; Sikora, A.; Welte, D. Schloss: Blockchain-Based System Architecture for Secure Industrial IoT. Electronics
2022, 11, 1629. [CrossRef]
13. Graglia, M.A.V.; Huelsen, P.; Lazzareschi, N. The Growing Moral Challenge in the Face of Technologies: Internet, Social Networks,
IoT, Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence. J. Innov. Sustain. RISUS 2021, 12, 17–29. [CrossRef]
14. Li, Z.; Ge, Y.; Guo, J.; Chen, M.; Wang, J. Security threat model under internet of things using deep learning and edge analysis of
cyberspace governance. Int. J. Syst. Assur. Eng. Manag. 2022, 13, 1164–1176. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/s22228677
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/36433272
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/electronics11142128
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/a14040121
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3034399
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/ai1010005
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/app13020782
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/fi13050117
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2936094
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/electronics11101629
http://dx.doi.org/10.23925/2179-3565.2021v12i2p17-29
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13198-021-01533-w
Computers 2023, 12, 64 16 of 16
15. Hu, J.; Reed, M.; Thomos, N.; AI-Naday, M.F.; Yang, K. Securing SDN-controlled IoT networks through edge blockchain. IEEE
Internet Things J. 2020, 8, 2102–2115. [CrossRef]
16. Wang, Y.; Yang, G.; Li, T.; Li, F.; Tian, Y.; Yu, X. Belief and fairness: A secure two-party protocol toward the view of entropy for
IoT devices. J. Netw. Comput. Appl. 2020, 161, 102641. [CrossRef]
17. Nwebonyi, F.N.; Martins, R.; Correia, M.E. Security and Fairness in IoT Based e-Health System: A Case Study of Mobile
Edge-Clouds. In Proceedings of the 2019 International Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing, Networking and
Communications (WiMob), Barcelona, Spain, 21–23 October 2019; pp. 318–323.
18. Jiang, S.; Cao, J.; Wu, H.; Yang, Y. Fairness-based packing of industrial IoT data in permissioned blockchains. IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informatics 2020, 17, 7639–7649. [CrossRef]
19. Nana, Z.; Xiujian, W.; Zhongqiu, Z. Game theory analysis on credit risk assessment in E-commerce. Inf. Process. Manag. 2022,
59, 102763. [CrossRef]
20. Liu, S. Analysis of Accounting Fraud in Enterprises Based on Game Theory—Take the Case of Geeya Technology Company
Limited Fraud as an Example. In Proceedings of the 2021 2nd Asia-Pacific Conference on Image Processing, Electronics and
Computers, Dalian, China, 14–16 April 2021; pp. 373–376.
21. Mkrtchian, S.M. Criminal and Legal Protection of Relationships in the Area of Blockchains Functioning and Cryptocurrency
Turnover: New Challenges. In Ubiquitous Computing and the Internet of Things: Prerequisites for the Development of ICT; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2019; pp. 355–361.
22. Dufwenberg, M.; Nordblom, K. Tax evasion with a conscience. J. Public Econ. Theory 2022, 24, 5–29. [CrossRef]
23. Greenberg, J. Avoiding tax avoidance: A (repeated) game-theoretic approach. J. Econ. Theory 1984, 32, 1–13. [CrossRef]
24. Gu, R. Blockchain and Decentralized Modeling for Corporate Tax Planning. In Proceedings of the 2021 Third International
Conference on Inventive Research in Computing Applications (ICIRCA), Coimbatore, India, 2–4 September 2021; pp. 497–500.
25. Søgaard, J.S. A blockchain-enabled platform for VAT settlement. Int. J. Account. Inf. Syst. 2021, 40, 100502. [CrossRef]
26. AlZubi, A.A. Modified hierarchical method for task scheduling in grid systems. Int. J. Adv. Comput. Sci. Appl. 2017, 8, 67–75.
27. Yayman, D. Blockchain in Taxation. J. Account. Financ. 2021, 21, 2158–3625.
28. Wang, J. Application of blockchain technology in tax collection and management. In Proceedings of the International Conference
on Cyber Security Intelligence and Analytics, Haikou, China, 28–29 February 2020; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2020;
pp. 50–58.
29. Ayyappath, A. Designing Blockchain-Based Taxation Systems: A Cost Benefit Analysis. In Advances in Distributed Computing and
Machine Learning; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2022; pp. 73–80.
30. Peláez-Repiso, A.; Sánchez-Núñez, P.; Calvente, Y.G. Tax regulation on blockchain and cryptocurrency: The implications for open
innovation. J. Open Innov. Technol. Mark. Complex. 2021, 7, 98. [CrossRef]
31. Rosenfeld, M. Analysis of hashrate-based double spending. arXiv 2014, arXiv:1402.2009.
32. Heilman, E.; Narula, N.; Tanzer, G.; Lovejoy, J.; Colavita, M.; Virza, M.; Dryja, T. Cryptanalysis of curl-p and other attacks on the
iota cryptocurrency. IACR Trans. Symmetric Cryptol. 2020, 367–391. [CrossRef]
33. Aponte-Novoa, F.A.; Orozco, A.L.S.; Villanueva-Polanco, R.; Wightman, P. The 51% attack on blockchains: A mining behavior
study. IEEE Access 2021, 9, 140549–140564. [CrossRef]
34. Bocart, F. Inflation propensity of Collatz orbits: A new proof-of-work for blockchain applications. J. Risk Financ. Manag. 2018,
11, 83. [CrossRef]
35. Güth, W.; Schmittberger, R.; Schwarze, B. An experimental analysis of ultimatum bargaining. J. Econ. Behav. Organ. 1982,
3, 367–388. [CrossRef]
36. Fehr, E.; Schmidt, K.M. A theory of fairness, competition, and cooperation. Q. J. Econ. 1999, 114, 817–868. [CrossRef]
37. Brock, J.M.; Lange, A.; Ozbay, E.Y. Dictating the risk: Experimental evidence on giving in risky environments. Am. Econ. Rev.
2013, 103, 415–437. [CrossRef]
38. Saito, K. Social preferences under risk: Equality of opportunity versus equality of outcome. Am. Econ. Rev. 2013, 103, 3084–3101.
[CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.3017354
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102641
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TII.2020.3046129
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102763
http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/jpet.12547
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0022-0531(84)90071-1
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.accinf.2021.100502
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/joitmc7010098
http://dx.doi.org/10.46586/tosc.v2020.i3.367-391
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3119291
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/jrfm11040083
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0167-2681(82)90011-7
http://dx.doi.org/10.1162/003355399556151
http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.103.1.415
http://dx.doi.org/10.1257/aer.103.7.3084
	Introduction
	State of the Art
	Attack Vectors and Challenges for Blockchain Applications
	Security Risks
	Sybil Attack
	Double-Spend Attack
	51% Attack
	Inflation
	Fairness Solution
	Methodology of Game Theory: Main Features and Pillars
	Definition of the Game
	Main Procedure: The Mini-Ultimatum Game
	Real-World Use Case
	Advantages of Applying the Tax Game to Blockchains
	Discussion and Security Analysis
	Conclusions
	References