3© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
H. L. Gururaj et al. (eds.), Convergence of Internet of Things and Blockchain 
Technologies, EAI/Springer Innovations in Communication and Computing, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-76216-2_1
Chapter 1
Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
J. Sudeep , S. C. Girish , Karthik Ganapathi, K. Raghavendra , 
Hong Lin, and P. Subramanya
1.1  Introduction
The role of technology has presented a significant part in everyone’s life. With the 
rapid growth of Internet and communication technologies, people around the world 
are doing transactions digitally across various domains like banking, healthcare, 
and business. The revolution of technologies happens very often; one such technol-
ogy is called “blockchain” which will be a game-changer in many functional sectors 
of the society. Today, people are more conscious when they hear about the word 
“money.” It has become an integral part of people’s life. It can take the form of a 
banknote, plastic card, or coins. Quite often, you might have visualized the image 
of the banknote, some coins, or credit cards. It is just an object which has an intrin-
sic value to do transactions.
J. Sudeep () · S. C. Girish 
Department of Information Science and Engineering, NIE Institute of Technology,  
Mysuru, Karnataka, India
e-mail: sudeep@nieit.ac.in; girishc@nieit.ac.in 
K. Ganapathi 
VSG Software Solutions Private Limited, Mysuru, Karnataka, India
e-mail: karthik@vsgsoftwares.com 
K. Raghavendra 
Department of Computer Science and Engineering, NIE Institute of Technology,  
Mysuru, Karnataka, India
e-mail: raghavendrak@nieit.ac.in 
H. Lin 
Department of Computer Science, University of Houston-Downtown, Houston, TX, USA
e-mail: linh@uhd.edu 
P. Subramanya 
DevOps Engineer, Akuna Capital, Greater Chicago, IL, USA
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-76216-2_1&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-76216-2_1#DOI
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7427-4555
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2331-5999
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1256-1975
mailto:sudeep@nieit.ac.in
mailto:girishc@nieit.ac.in
mailto:karthik@vsgsoftwares.com
mailto:raghavendrak@nieit.ac.in
mailto:linh@uhd.edu
4
Imagine you are going to a restaurant along with your family and ordering food 
items. The waiter serves the order and provides a bill that needs to be paid. The pay-
ment is digitally done with the interventions of the third-party agents. There is no 
direct communication between the payer and the receiver. This eventually led to the 
invention of new technology, where there is direct communication between the 
sender and the receiver. Before the invention of money into financial and economic 
system to do transactions, the concept of barter system was introduced in the era of 
1920 by the Mesopotamian tribes for the exchange of materials, for instance, if two 
people want to exchange goods, i.e., a bag of wheat with a set of leather boots. 
There will be a direct communication for exchanges of goods. However, conflicts 
might arrive, if there is an opinion difference among a person who complies with 
other persons concerning the transactions. Therefore, money acted as a desire for 
the economy which enabled all types of transactions to be carried out in detail. The 
concept of Blockchain technology is analogous to a barter system, except that the 
transactions are digitally done without face-to-face involvement of individuals and 
interventions of third-party agents.
1.1.1  What Is Blockchain and How It Works?
One of the important valuable assets in the digital world is data which needs to be 
protected and managed. With skillful criminal people, there is always a threat to 
steal data. In the past, several methods are proposed to protect the valuable data. 
One such approach is the use of Blockchain technology. In simple terms, a 
Blockchain refers to a chain of blocks that store data. Every data cached inside the 
block depends on Blockchain types. The main intent is to encode the sequence of 
characters in digital documents using cryptographic algorithms so that it’s not pos-
sible to antecede them or to mess with them [1]. A Blockchain is a digital ledger that 
is spread completely to anyone who is intended to learn and use it. It becomes very 
difficult to change it once data is archived inside a Blockchain. Every block contains 
data, the hash of the current block with hash of previous block. The transaction 
details of the sender and receiver and number of coins are stored in a Bitcoin 
Blockchain. Each block has a long sequence hash key which is unique that makes it 
difficult to break by felony hackers. Once the block is created, its hash is counted. 
Any changes made inside a block cause the hash to change. Often, hashes are very 
useful when we want to detect changes to blocks. The next element inside each 
block is the hash of the previous block [2, 3].
As shown in the Fig. 1.1a [4], let’s assume that we have a chain of three blocks 
in a Blockchain network. Each block has a hash and hash of the previous block. So 
block number three points to hash of block number two, and block number two 
points to hash of block number one. The first block is a special block which is called 
“genesis block” which can’t point to the previous block. Now, let’s say that we tam-
per the second block as shown in Fig.  1.1b [4]. These changes the hash block. 
Consecutively, it makes adjacent blocks unacceptable as it points to tampered block. 
J. Sudeep et al.
5
Nowadays, supercomputers are fast enough to compute millions of hash codes per 
second, so we cannot rely solely on hash concept to avoid tampering. To alleviate 
this problem, Blockchain has a concept called “proof of work.” This method delays 
the process of new block creation. It takes nearly ten minutes to compute the essen-
tial proof of work in the case of Bitcoins to insert into the Blockchain [3]. Any 
alteration in a single block results in recomputation of proof of work. So the proof 
of work and use of hash concept make the Blockchain more secured. The peer-to- 
peer network concept is also used by Blockchain where anybody can get the full 
copy of Blockchain when they join to that network. The existing nodes of the 
Blockchain examine the new block which is created by somebody. Each node veri-
fies that block to make sure that it hasn’t been tampered with. All nodes mutually 
ensure a “consensus” to add new block to its chain. They comply which are valid 
and invalid blocks. Blocks that are meddled will be rejected by other nodes in the 
network. So to effectively tamper a Blockchain, all blocks on that chain need to be 
meddled, recalculate the proof of work for each block, and take control of peer-to- 
peer network. Then, only the tampered block become accepted by everyone. 
Fig. 1.1 (a) Genesis block. (b) Tampered block
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
6
Blockchain is constantly evolving. One of the most recent developments is the cre-
ation of “smart contracts” which makes a Blockchain more secure [4].
1.1.2  Basic Framework of Blockchain
In the previous sections, we gave a brief outline of Blockchain and introduced how 
a Blockchain works. We take a deep dive into the Blockchain framework by explain-
ing the different Blockchain types along with its structure. This section also 
describes the role of smarts contracts, centralized and decentralized networks, and 
challenges faced by Blockchain. So let’s get started.
1.2  Types of Blockchain with Its Structure
Let’s take a look at three major types of Blockchain in detail:
• Public Blockchain.
• Private Blockchain.
• Hybrid Blockchain.
Public Blockchain. As the name itself signifies, it is one type of Blockchain 
which is open to everyone who is interested to participate as users, miners, develop-
ers, and any other stakeholders. The Blockchain transaction which happens is fully 
transparent and can be examined by anyone regardless of details of the transactions. 
These are designed to be completely decentralized with “no individual or entity 
control” where the transactions are recorded in the Blockchain or the order in which 
they are processed. A public Blockchain is highly resistant since it is open to join 
networks regardless of location, nationality, etc. This makes it hard for the authori-
ties to shut the network down. Lastly, these have a token with them designed to 
motivate and reward the stakeholders in the network. Some examples of public 
Blockchain are Bitcoin and Ethereum [5]
Private Blockchain. Unlike a public Blockchain, private Blockchain are focused 
on specific stakeholders or organizations who want to collaborate and share data but 
don’t want their sensitive business information visible on the public domain. By 
nature, they are more centralized. In a private Blockchain, each stakeholder needs 
the consent to join the peer network or group. All the transactions are available to 
the stakeholders of the private local ecosystem which has been permitted to join that 
network. Private Blockchain may or may not have token associated with the chain. 
The entity running the chain has complete control over the participants or the gov-
ernance structures. Some examples of private Blockchain are Hyperledger and R3 
Corda [5, 6].
Hybrid Blockchain. As the name itself signifies, it is another type of Blockchain 
that combines the features of the above two Blockchain, i.e., private and public. It 
J. Sudeep et al.
7
combines the privacy and transparency benefits of public and private Blockchain 
which offers the flexibility to the businesses to select what type of data makes it 
public and private. In this type, the user will have the complete control of data that 
needs to be stored and provides some restrictions to gain access to other data. The 
only selected portion of data will be sent to the public while keeping other data in a 
private network. In a hybrid Blockchain, any users can easily join the public net-
work, while all the transactions in the private network are completely verified within 
that network. Some example of hybrid Blockchain is the Dragonchain [5, 6]. Now, 
let’s take a closer look at the basic structure of the Blockchain along with its 
components.
A Blockchain is a network of computers connected with every node in the net-
work. There is a specific protocol imposed on the data in which every node has to 
agree and follow the constraints imposed on the shared data in the network. This 
makes the Blockchain structure very unique from other networks. As seen in Fig. 1.2 
[7], every block in a Blockchain has two pieces of information, namely, the header 
block and transaction counter block. Every block in the header has one parent block 
which has a previous block hash value. Each block header has the following piece 
of information:
Fig. 1.2 Structure of Blockchain
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
8
Block version: It specifies the version of the block used for validating the block.
Merkel tree root hash: It basically has all the hash values for all types of transac-
tions in a block within a Blockchain.
Timestamp: It represents the present time in unit seconds.
nBits: It represents the original value of the available block of the hash.
Nonce: It is a random nonrepeated four-byte field which starts with zero and 
increases with every calculation.
Parent block hash: This block points to the previous block which has a previous 
hash value of 256 bits depending on the type of cryptographic algorithms 
used [7].
1.3  Smart Contracts and Its Benefits
The idea of a smart contract was the brainchild of Nick Szabo in the year 1993 who 
is a computer scientist and a cryptographer. It can be simply defined as a small com-
puter program which runs on top of Blockchain network. A smart contract provides 
a very powerful capability of code execution for embedding business logic on the 
Blockchain. These are the set of instructional codes that are stored on a Blockchain 
network which will be executed automatically based on some conditions. Smart 
contracts work on the basic principles of “simple if then else.” At the simplest level, 
it is just a piece of code or program which is executed automatically based on some 
predetermined conditions. It is some type of agreement or a contract that gets auto-
matically executed without any human involvement.
One of the better ways to understand the smart contract is through an example. 
Let’s assume that you are buying a car from a dealer through a financial scheme. 
This involves a series of steps, wherein you need to interact with several people like 
financer, broker, lender, sales representative, and banker. This could be a tedious 
and frustrating process as it requires a lot of involvement from several people. One 
smart idea to streamline this process is to use a smart contract which eases the work-
flow of this system. With smart contracts, it’s possible to create trust among the 
several stakeholders with ease of transactions. Since complete data is stored on the 
Blockchain network, the identity of the buyer with all his credentials is within the 
block which enables the lenders to quickly decide the credit. Smart contracts could 
be created between the bank, dealer, and lender so that the funds can be automati-
cally released to the various stakeholders based on agreed terms and conditions. 
With this, the transfer of ownership will be automatic, and the complete transactions 
are recorded in the Blockchain network which can be verified anytime [8, 9]. Now, 
let’s look at some of the benefits of smart contracts [8]
Transparency. One of the key aspects of any system to operate is completely 
dependent on the information. Automation played a crucial role in processing and 
managing digital data. It is possible to have full access and visibility of terms and 
conditions to concerned individuals without any disputes.
J. Sudeep et al.
9
Accuracy. One of the primary goals of smart contracts is to maintain the records 
of all terms and agreements in a precise manner. It is an important aspect, as omis-
sions will result in transaction errors. So smart contracts try to avoid the pitfalls and 
improve the accuracy of the transactions.
Speed. With the rapid growth of communication technologies and wide usage of 
the Internet, smart contracts run as a freeware code that can execute the transactions 
quickly. This saves the time required to do the transactions when compared to tradi-
tional business processes.
Storage and Backups. One of the key aspects of smart contracts is the ability to 
store complete transaction details in a single Blockchain which can be used for 
future reference. So whenever there is a loss of data, all the data attributes can be 
completely covered from storage. thereby providing full support for com-
plete backup.
1.4  Centralized and Decentralized Networks
So far, we have seen the different types of Blockchain and understood the role of 
smart contracts along with its benefits. Now, it’s time to understand the importance 
of different types of networks supported by Blockchain technology. Let us under-
stand the concept in simple terms.
As seen in Fig. 1.3 [10], the Blockchain networks can be broadly classified into 
two types, namely, centralized and decentralized.
Centralized Networks. In this type of network, all nodes are connected to the 
centralized hub. This hub acts as an information server. All data are routed through 
a centralized server. When a message is transferred from one node to another node, 
it passes through the central hub. This is also called as “private network” as only 
authorized users are allowed to use this network due to entry restriction [11].
Decentralized Networks. This network is similar to that of a centralized net-
work except that there is a single network connected to a centralized hub, whereas 
in decentralized networks, there is a chain of networks, i.e., multiple networks are 
Fig. 1.3 Types of networks in Blockchain
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
10
connected to a centralized hub which enables the proper exchange of messages 
between them.
1.5  Blockchain Challenges
Even though Blockchain has a wide variant of applications, still, there are few chal-
lenges faced in terms of deployment and adaptability in industrial applications and 
other sectors. Some of them are given below [12].
Scalability. The biggest challenges of implementation of Blockchain are the 
inability of the technology to scale as large number of users is managed at a single 
time. Multiple users get connected through a chain of Blockchain structure. Different 
algorithms are used to process the transactions which seems to be a tedious task. 
The Bitcoin Blockchain can handle 3–7 transactions per second, On the other hand, 
Ethereum Blockchain can handle 15–20 transactions. This makes it not feasible to 
work for large industrial applications.
No Common Standard. With numerous platforms available in Blockchain envi-
ronment, there is no common standard defined that can be used for project imple-
mentation. Many active projects use different platforms which have its own 
protocols, coding language, and consensus mechanism that make it difficult to use 
in industrial applications. Many organizations are working toward building a stan-
dard version in Blockchain to reform cross-platform collaborations.
Privacy. Another challenge that needs to be addressed is privacy concern in pub-
lic Blockchain. All transactions of electronic ledgers in public Blockchain are visi-
ble to all servers which are more vulnerable to attacks. Some degree of modification 
is required in public Blockchain to restrict access to authorized persons only. For 
example, under any circumstances, the patient medical records can’t be disclosed to 
the public.
Security. One of the major concern in the public Blockchain is that these are 
more vulnerable to attacks. As per [12], all the transactions in a Blockchain network 
are verified by miners which are present in the same network. Any miner which 
gains control of 51% of nodes on that network will restrict other miners to create a 
block and delay validating new transactions. These types of attacks decreases the 
number of miners that want to join the Blockchain network.
1.6  History of Blockchain
Initially, the origin of Blockchain started with the concept of adding timestamp to 
digital documents in the year 1991, by two data scientists Stuart Haber and W. Scott 
Stornetta, for avoiding the backdated and tampering of documents. This system got 
an upgradation in the year 1992 by the addition of cryptographic algorithm, provid-
ing security for the chain of digitally stored documents according to the timestamp.
J. Sudeep et al.
11
Later in the year 2008, a paper related to peer-to-peer, decentralized network- 
based digital cash was proposed by Satoshi Nakamoto called Bitcoin. This was the 
first cryptocurrency that came to the market with the functionalities of Blockchain 
as the backbone.
Later in the year 2013, the upgradation with respect to Bitcoin happened with a 
scripting language as addition for building decentralized applications. This crypto-
currency got its name as “Ethereum.” Presently, there are more than 20000+ crypto-
currencies available in market, which works on Blockchain technology.
1.7  Comparison of Blockchain with Notebook
In simpler terms, a Blockchain is compared to notebook as shown in Fig. 1.4 [13]. 
A blockchain is a distributed immutable ledger. Every entry in a notebook will take 
one line when anything is written into it. Similarly, Blockchain can be viewed as a 
notebook where entries will be written but can’t be erased. Each page in a notebook 
is compared to a block on a Blockchain, and entries in a page are blockchain trans-
actions. When Blockchain is compared to a notebook, it is precise to adopt that not 
all Blockchains are created equal just as all notebooks are equal. For example, the 
handling of transactions in Ethereum is somewhat different from Hyperledger 
Fabric with respect to ordering and validation. Blockchain is a revolutionary way of 
Fig. 1.4 Blockchain comparison to a notebook
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
12
implementing trust which removes third-party agents. It is transaction backend 
database which is secure which is read by everyone in the database. If anything 
needs to be changed in the database, transactions are created which should be 
accepted by all in the network; Blockchain is a fully robust technology, while data-
base is not a robust technology [13].
1.8  Future of Blockchain in Industrial Applications
The usage of cryptocurrency has made Blockchain one of the promising technolo-
gies in the digital world. The revenue of industrial application can be improved 
through operational implementation by sharing data across multiple sectors. In this 
section, two applications are discussed that provide benefits to society [14, 15].
1.8.1  Telecommunication
Extreme competition and pressure to innovate are often faced by few industries in 
telecom domain. With billions of subscribers worldwide, telecom sectors employ 
different strategies to attract the brand-new customers, satisfying the current one 
and replacing the old. Demand for 5G network created impact for high-speed data. 
Technologies like AI and Internet of Things (IoT) are creating pressure to indus-
tries. Blockchain employs strategic levels to handle data privacy and operational 
challenges in 5G telecommunication networks which are as follows.
Data Privacy. Blockchain secures the privacy of data by protecting data and 
reducing annoyance through user preferences and immutable records. For example, 
Bharti Airtel in collaboration with IBM are working together to protect 250 million 
users’ data from spam callers. Airtel uses Blockchain scrubbing process to protect 
users’ mobile numbers from telemarketers. Immutable record of user preference is 
the next step to handle personal data and secure privacy.
Customer Experience. The customer experiences can be improved by creating 
new avenues and expanding business opportunities in industries. Smartphones and 
digital wallets are now merged rapidly that created pathways to offer financial ser-
vices. Many banking applications use smartphones to make digital payments. There 
are three key ingredients to perform operations—a mobile platform to host applica-
tion, customer relationship for postpaid billing, and meet Know Your Client (KYC) 
standard. All that is missing is a secure transaction with acceptance of payments; 
Blockchain overcomes this problems. TBCASoft and SoftBank in collaboration 
with IBM Blockchain are working together to build Cross-Carrier Payment System 
(CCPS) where payments can be made to local trader by single unified global pay-
ment platform. Immutable record and distributed ledger technology is adapted by 
TBCASoft to optimize transactions. CCPS uses smartphone access to provide over-
the-top (OTT) payments [16].
J. Sudeep et al.
13
1.8.2  Healthcare
Pharmaceutical sector is one of the prime departments in healthcare domain which 
focuses on patient safety through quality medicines. Blockchain revolutionizes 
healthcare enterprises by enabling new ecosystem with increased quality care. 
Several governments and other organizations collaborate to ensure safety of medi-
cines with quality ingredients. Innovation requires continues evaluation, manufac-
turing with proper distribution, and technical approach to provide solution.
Different organizations like IBM, Walmart, Merck, and KPMG propose a 
Blockchain solution in response to FDA pilot program to accept this technology for 
verifying and tracking pharmaceutical product. Several challenges of the pharma-
ceutical supply chain are addressed through Blockchain technology with its immu-
table data, sharable ledger, and ability to track drug origin. Pilot program was 
devised to allow quick alert to supply chain partners. The process of notification is 
manual and fragmented using diverse systems which increased the response time 
and number of patients [17].
The pilot program proposed two objectives to check if Blockchain technology 
would be suitable to address pharmaceutical supply chain needs which are as 
follows:
• To achieve interoperability requirements in a secure way, Blockchain provides a 
common record of product movement connecting different systems and 
organizations.
• Improve safety of patient by bringing about product alerts and increasing visibil-
ity to suitable supply chain partners in the product investigation.
• The Blockchain successfully exhibited the above objectives.
1.9  Case Studies of Blockchain
Even though Blockchain has evolved as a disruptive technology, it has provided 
opportunities to scholars and industry personnel to explore this technology in detail, 
which contributes solutions to the society. This section will throw light about some 
case studies [18] and how it can be solved using the Blockchain technology in inter-
disciplinary fields like the judicial system and land and revenue sectors.
1.9.1  Judicial System of India with Its Issue 
and Blockchain Solutions
The judicial system is one of the main pillar of Indian democracy which indicates 
the rules in how democracy works. The judiciary is the institution which provides 
justice and executes the new laws and amendments passed by the government. The 
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
14
purpose of justice is defeated over years due to the pendency of cases. Still, millions 
of cases are still pending in Indian courts for the past 10 years. Many persons have 
struggled to seek justice and lost their lives in legal trials. Even though the judicial 
systems are considered to be the powerhouse of the system, still, there are a lot of 
loopholes in the current system. Key stakeholders like police, advocates, judicial 
officials, and individuals are utilizing these existing loopholes for their own bene-
fits. In fact, over a period of time, stakeholders will lose faith and trust in the judicial 
systems. According to [19], regarding the ease of doing business operations, World 
Bank ranks India at 77th out of 190 countries concerning the trait of judicial stan-
dards. What are the prime reasons for many cases pending in the courts? A report 
from the supreme court and other chief judicial officials stated that the delay was 
due to the acute scarcity of judges which lead to the pendency of cases. The details 
of the pending cases in various courts are shown in Table 1.1 [20].
A report submitted by the Law Commission in 2009 states that in Delhi high 
court, to clear the pendency cases, it would require around 464 years with the avail-
able strengths of judges. However, we can’t say that shortage of judges is the only 
reason for justice being delayed [20]. A study conducted by Vidhi Centre for legal 
policy states that 8086 orders are cleared by Delhi high court between 2011 and 
2015. They categorized it as delayed cases if it is pending for more than 2 years. 
There are two prospects of delay, i.e., court side and counsel side delays. Finally, the 
survey summarizes that 82% of the delays caused could be credited to counsel-
lor [21].
If gouged deeper with a reality check, the current records include statements of 
stakeholder getting pieces of evidence updated, modified, misplaced, or sometimes 
deleted to defeat opponent, thus destroying the justice. Is it possible to provide jus-
tice to all using current technology and solve the core judicial issues to speed up the 
judicial process? The answer is yes and it is possible through Blockchain technol-
ogy. Even if there is a 1% improvement in the current judiciary, it hits the minds of 
crores of people to gain faith in the judicial system.Some of the challenges of the 
current Indian judicial systems is as follows:
Provenance: The origin of data has lacked currently in Indian judicial systems. The 
original data can be easily forged by any external agency which needs to be 
questioned.
Transparency: Besides having the copies of certified legal documents, the judicial 
systems lack transparency as a result of dereliction conducted by lawyers and 
other court officials which doesn’t prevail justice.
Table 1.1 Pendency of cases in Indian judicial system
Court (as on)
Pending cases
Cases pending for 
more than 10 years
Civil Criminal Civil Criminal
Supreme court (19 February 2016) 48,418 11,050 1132 84
High court (31 December 2014) 3,116,492 1,037,465 589,631 187,999
Subordinate courts (31 December 2014) 8,234,281 18,254,124 611,658 1,432,079
J. Sudeep et al.
15
Data integration: Many judicial representatives will have the information of par-
ticular zones. It’s a better opportunity to integrate criminal records across the 
country so that it can track offender with their data to impede undue events in 
the future.
Scalability: Existing legal system is not scaled to maintain case records uniformly 
across different parts of states.
The abovementioned challenges can be tackled completely using Blockchain 
technology. As a part of the solution, different stakeholders like police, court offi-
cials, individuals, lawyers, and judges need to register their credentials on a 
Blockchain as shown in Fig. 1.5 [20].
After successful registration, each stakeholder will be granted an authenticated 
and unique wallet identifier with an address. To log into the wallet, a two-factor 
authentication like wallet ID, a password is required. This wallet ID is a combina-
tion of alphanumeric characters which will be used as a username through which all 
transactions are recorded. A unique hash key is generated to a block for validating 
the transactions. To send funds from wallets, the recipient address or QR code is 
required. All these details will be stored on the Blockchain, and the stakeholder can 
access credentials like a case number, court number, date of proceedings, advocate, 
judge and investigation officer details, and next hearing dates. The events will be 
automatically executed by smart contracts which are notified to the convict regard-
ing the petition filed through email. Figure 1.6 [20] shows Blockchain solution for 
Indian judicial system.
In current scenarios, intermediaries in the judicial system have a fair chance to 
intervene and affect the processes of judicial systems. Let’s take a close look at it 
one by one.
Next Date. As per the present court proceedings, the hon’ble judges in the cur-
rent judicial system allocate the next hearing date for the proceedings of case. 
However, the officials of court who sit adjacent to the judge will record the next date 
on the document ledger. The proponent of the court who has a good harmony with 
these officials enables court officials to bribe them and ask them to pen down the 
next date as per their wish, e.g., hon’ble magistrate might have given the next date 
as 15 September, but the court official might note down the next date as 15 October. 
This is a major loophole in the judicial system as there is a prohibition of audio and 
video recordings in court which is a major loss to a victim in terms of delay with 
court proceedings. One solution using Blockchain technology is to design an effi-
cient algorithm for the next date generation based on court type, type of case, differ-
ent Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) sections, case 
age, FIR number, advocate name, etc. This information should be intimated to all 
the individuals through email for the next date.
Warrant Issuance. In the present court proceedings, the hon’ble judge in the 
judicial systems issues an order to recover the fine. As a part of this process, the 
judge passes an order with the issuance of a warrant against the complainant or 
respondent for the recovery of the fine. The court officials direct the concerned 
police station to issue the warrant to take necessary action and report back within a 
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
16
Police Court Official Individual/lawyer Judge
Blockchain Network
Block nBlock 0 Block n+1 Block n+2 Smart
Contracts
SubmitApplication
File Petition
MarkAttendance
GenerateNextdate
ProvideCertifiedCopy
IssueWarrent
SubmitUpdates
UpdateStatus
SubmitPetition
SubmitApplication
SubmitReply
RequestCertifiedCopy
ConfirmAttendance
ConfirmNextDate
RequestAnotherDate
PassOrder
ApproveCertifiedCopyRequest
RejectCertifiedCopyRequest
Node6 Node4
Node2 Node5
Node1
Node3
Node7
Fig. 1.5 Proposed Indian judicial system
J. Sudeep et al.
17
certain time period along with recovery details for further actions. However, some-
times, the court officials do not issue the recovery warrants to concerned individuals 
or police stations for several months or years unless it is followed up by the indi-
viduals or the advocate if not traced. Even if it is dispatched to the police, it will be 
difficult enough to keep track of when it was dispatched to the police to take further 
actions. In turn, the police may delay these actions for several reasons defeating the 
purpose of justice. The solution to this problem is achieved through Blockchain 
technology. The state government issues the predefined warrant format for different 
Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) sections. Here, 
smart contracts can be used effectively to automatically generate the warrant upon 
the issuance of the order and add an action for police Blockchain. A report can be 
submitted to the court by the police through Blockchain which cannot be altered or 
deleted.
1.10  Maintenance of Land Records Using Blockchain
Keeping a secure data and storing it in real time are considered as some of the big-
gest challenges of the revenue department. Several issues related to land records 
arise due to inadequate information in different sections of the department and hav-
ing no proper record management. Currently, registration of lands is done through 
Fig. 1.6 Blockchain solution for Indian judicial system
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
18
paper format which is more vulnerable and can be tampered easily. Due to unavail-
ability or limited support of database, tracking changes of records in real time com-
plicates the land issue registry. This problem can be solved using the Blockchain 
technology which is immutable, scalable, and more secure. With Blockchain, it’s 
possible to store any information in real time. Any person can now sell, buy, or 
transfer the assets which are owned with less or no interventions from third-party 
agents like brokers making the system more transparent, secure, and cheaper.
1.10.1  Current Scenarios
In India, across all states, there are around two to three departments which take care 
of property-related registration and land-related documents. They are as follows.
Department of Stamps and Registry (DoSR). This department has the respon-
sibility to maintain land registration along with verification during transfer of docu-
ments. This handles different types of deeds such as transfer of immovable property, 
marriage registration, bond paper, and other land-related documents. There are sev-
eral different ways of acquiring immutable property like inheritance, through will, 
property purchase, property granted by court, or court. All the work of registration 
process and public interaction takes place at the Office of Sub-Registrar (OSR) 
which has the responsibilities like estimating value of the property, registering and 
preserving copies of sale deeds, collection of stamp duties, and issuing registration 
certificate
Department of Revenue (DoR). This department has the responsibility of pre-
paring and maintaining records or transaction. Apart from these, it has complete 
authority of verifying transaction to handle disputes from revenue courts and any 
other governing agencies.
Survey and Settlement Department. This department has the responsibility of 
maintenance of cadastral and other survey maps [22]. Globally, many organizations 
have developed numerous platforms for maintenance of land records through 
Blockchain. Propy [23] is one platform which uses website and distributed applica-
tion (dApps) for providing solution using Blockchain. Testbed [24] is another 
Swedish project which provides solution through Blockchain.
1.10.2  Blockchain Solutions
Even though digitization has improved the maintenance of property documents of 
land records, still, security, privacy, and transparency are major concerns for the 
revenue department. This problem can be solved using Blockchain technology 
which uses smart contracts for land record maintenance. Different stakeholders like 
the buyer, seller, bank, and government are involved in carrying out a Blockchain 
transaction. User details (buyers, sellers) are registered on a web portal to buy or sell 
J. Sudeep et al.
19
the property, and all the transactions are recorded on each different block in a 
Blockchain. The various roles of stakeholders are as follows:
Government: Any unowned land or property is registered by the government with 
details of land with its location (area per square feet).
Buyer: Using the website, the buyer registers details on a portal. The buyer is one 
who plans to buy assets.
Seller: The seller registers details on a portal using a website. The seller is one who 
wants to sell the property and notifies if there is any appeal from the buyer.
Bank: The bank acts as middle agent to authenticate the status of the buyer and seller.
Any user who needs to buy or sell the property needs to go through with the 
registration process. Figure 1.7 [10] describes the registration process where stake-
holders like buyers, sellers, bank, and government create an account and get a pri-
vate transaction key. Each user has unique key and address for website created by 
the Blockchain. Using this private key and address, user can log into the website for 
undergoing transactions [23].
After successful registration, the user can sell or buy single or multiple proper-
ties. Figure  1.8 [10] portrays the process of selling the land property where the 
buyer sends a request to the seller. The trade will be successful if the seller accepts 
Note : A single Smart contract 
will be deployed by the
government initially over ethereum
blockchain 
Distributed WebApp
(Smart contract) 
User
Register / Sign Up
Assign Account Address
and Private Key
Fig. 1.7 User registration process for web app
Choose properties
to be sold
Display the requests 
Distributed
WebApp 
Display properties 
for Sale
 Send request for 
interested property 
 Get land information 
Seller Buyer
Block 1 Block 2 Block 3 Block n
Ethereum Blockchain
Fig. 1.8 Process of selling land property using Blockchain
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
20
request from the buyer and the buyer has sufficient ethers. The seller puts the prop-
erty information that needs be sold on the application display with the property cost 
as digital currency ethers. The trade would be successful if all rules are satisfied as 
per the contract terms.
The buyer can buy the saleable property according to the price and owner details 
along with location of the land. Figure 1.9 [10] describes the process involved in 
buying property. Using the digital signature of the web app, the buyer makes a 
request to the seller to buy a property. The seller can accept or reject the request 
depending upon his interest. If the seller accepts request of the buyer, the smart 
contract will be automatically executed to check if all conditions are agreed and the 
consent is sent with money transfer in form of ethers. The buyer affirms it using 
digital signature, and the transaction is completed with land transferred to the 
buyer [23].
1.11  Conclusion
Blockchain is considered as one piece of emerging technology which has created an 
impact on the digital world. Even though this technology is not known to many 
people, it revolutionized and created an impression in the industrial world. This 
Blockchain technology has made life simpler by storing the information on a block 
by which some traditional transactions are transformed to being smooth and 
protected.
Block 1 Block 2 Block 3 Block n
Ethereum Blockchain
Accept / Reject
Display status
Check if buyer has enough
ether, if yes transfer ether and
change land title
Seller Buyer
Distributed
WebApp
Notify buyer
Add new block of transaction
Fig. 1.9 Process of buying land property using Blockchain
J. Sudeep et al.
21
This chapter shows a brief insight about the fundamentals of Blockchain technol-
ogy and how it works and explains the role of genesis block and other blocks in 
Blockchain. The different Blockchain types are discussed and the role of smart con-
tracts to create trust and ease the transactions without third-party interventions. This 
chapter addresses solutions to industrial applications using blockchain technology 
in telemedicine and healthcare sectors which benefits society. This chapter con-
cludes that functioning of Blockchain is secure and how it is implemented in many 
areas by considering two important case studies in the field of judicial and revenue 
systems.
References
 1. Chakravarty, S. R., & Sarkar, P. (2020). Introduction to blockchain: An introduction to algo-
rithmic finance, Algorithmic trading and blockchain (pp.  137–143). Emerald Publishing 
Limited. https://doi.org/10.1108/978- 1- 78973- 893- 320201017.
 2. Chen, L., Cong, L., & Xiao, Y. (2019, August 10). A brief introduction to blockchain econom-
ics. https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3442691.
 3. Laurence, T. (2019). Introduction to blockchain technology. Van Haren Publishing. https://
www.vanharen.store/amfilerating/file/download/file_id/4.
 4. Web Article: Blockchain & how it works. Retrieved May 2018, from https://steemit.com/
Blockchain/@suraj.blogit/what- is- Blockchain
 5. Ratta, P., Kaur, A., & Sharma, S. (2020). A secured decentralized technology on blockchain. 
IJAST, 29(108), 2851–2859. Retrieved June 5, 2020, from https://www.researchgate.net/
publication/341930378_Blockchain_secure_Decentralized_Technology.
 6. Web Article: Different Blockchain types. Retrieved March 2018, from https://dragonchain.
com/blog/differences- between- public- private- Blockchains
 7. Kaur, A., et al. (2020 May). Blockchain: A path to future, cryptocurrencies and Blockchain 
technology applications (pp. 25–42). https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119621201.ch2.
 8. Web Article: Smart contracts on Blockchain. Retrieved July 2018, from, https://www.ibm.
com/blogs/Blockchain/2018/07/what- are- smart- contracts- on- Blockchain/
 9. Raghavendra, K., & Ramesh, B. Managing the digital identity in the cloud: The current sce-
nario. In 2015 IEEE International Conference Electrical, Computer and Communication 
Technologies (ICECCT) (pp. 1–4).
 10. Bhorshetti, H., Ghuge, S., Kulkarni, A., & Bhingarkar, S. (2020). Land record mainte-
nance using Blockchain. In D.  Patel et  al. (Eds.), IC-BCT 2019. Blockchain Technologies 
(pp. 205–214). Singapore: Springer. https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 981- 15- 4542- 9_17.
 11. Van Hijfte, S. (2020 July). Blockchain platforms: A look at the underbelly of dis-
tributed platforms. Morgan & Claypool Publishers. https://doi.org/10.2200/
S01022ED1V01Y202006CSL011.
 12. Blog Article: key challenges to be addressed for adoption of 
Blockchain. Retrieved November 29, 2019, from https://cyfuture.com/
blog/8- key- challenges- to- be- addressed- for- adoption- of- Blockchain/
 13. Joseph Holbrook, J. (2020). Introduction to blockchain technologies: Architecting enterprise 
blockchain solutions (pp. 1–26). https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119557722.ch1.
 14. Web Article: Explore Industry Applications on Blockchain. Retrieved July 2018, from https://
www.ibm.com/in- en/Blockchain/industries
 15. IBM. (2020). FDA DSCSA Blockchain interoperability pilot project report. Available via 
DIALOG. Retrieved February 2020, from https://www.ibm.com/downloads/cas/9V2LRYG5
1 Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
https://doi.org/10.1108/978-1-78973-893-320201017
https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.3442691
https://www.vanharen.store/amfilerating/file/download/file_id/4
https://www.vanharen.store/amfilerating/file/download/file_id/4
https://steemit.com/Blockchain/@suraj.blogit/what-is-Blockchain
https://steemit.com/Blockchain/@suraj.blogit/what-is-Blockchain
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341930378_Blockchain_secure_Decentralized_Technology
https://www.researchgate.net/publication/341930378_Blockchain_secure_Decentralized_Technology
https://dragonchain.com/blog/differences-between-public-private-Blockchains
https://dragonchain.com/blog/differences-between-public-private-Blockchains
https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119621201.ch2
https://www.ibm.com/blogs/Blockchain/2018/07/what-are-smart-contracts-on-Blockchain/
https://www.ibm.com/blogs/Blockchain/2018/07/what-are-smart-contracts-on-Blockchain/
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-4542-9_17
https://doi.org/10.2200/S01022ED1V01Y202006CSL011
https://doi.org/10.2200/S01022ED1V01Y202006CSL011
https://cyfuture.com/blog/8-key-challenges-to-be-addressed-for-adoption-of-Blockchain/
https://cyfuture.com/blog/8-key-challenges-to-be-addressed-for-adoption-of-Blockchain/
https://doi.org/10.1002/9781119557722.ch1
https://www.ibm.com/in-en/Blockchain/industries
https://www.ibm.com/in-en/Blockchain/industries
https://www.ibm.com/downloads/cas/9V2LRYG5
22
 16. Astarita, V., Giofrè, V. P. et al (2020): A review of blockchain-based systems in transportation 
information 2020, 11, 21. DOI https://doi.org/10.3390/info11010021.
 17. Mezquita, Y., Casadovara, R., et al. (2020 September). Blockchain based architecture for the 
control of logistics activities: Pharmaceutical utilities case studies. https://doi.org/10.1093/
jigpal/jzaa039.
 18. Farshidi, S., Jansen, S., & Verkleij, J. (2020). Decision support for blockchain platform selec-
tion: Three industry case studies, IEEE transactions on Engineering management (pp. 1–20). 
doi: https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2019.2956897.
 19. Press Information Bureau, Government of India, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, India 
Improves Rank by 23 Positions in Ease of Doing Business. (2018). https://dipp.gov.in/sites/
default/files/press_release_EODB_20112018.pdf
 20. Khairwal, N., & Shah, R. (2020). Current Indian Judicial System: Issues and Blockchain 
Solutions. In D. Patel et  al. (Eds.), IC-BCT 2019. Blockchain Technologies (pp.  229–239). 
Singapore: Springer.
 21. Nitin K., Shalini S, Sumathi C. (2017) Inefficiency and judicial delay. New Insights from the 
Delhi High Court. Vidhi Centre for Legal Policy (pp. 1–32) India.
 22. Case study. (2019). Land records on Blockchain. Retrieved February 22, 2019, from https://
www.emudhra.com/
 23. Propy Team. (2017). White paper, Global property store with decentralized title registry. 
Retrieved July 17, 2017, from https://assets.whitepaper.io/documents/
 24. Kairos Future. (2017). A development project with lantmateriet, Landshypotek Bank, SBAB, 
Telia Company, Chromaway and Kairos Future. In: The land registry in Blockchain – testbed. 
Available via DIALOG. Retrieved March 2017, from https://static1.squarespace.com/static/
Blockchain_Landregistry_Report
J. Sudeep et al.
https://doi.org/10.3390/info11010021
https://doi.org/10.1093/jigpal/jzaa039
https://doi.org/10.1093/jigpal/jzaa039
https://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2019.2956897
https://dipp.gov.in/sites/default/files/press_release_EODB_20112018.pdf
https://dipp.gov.in/sites/default/files/press_release_EODB_20112018.pdf
https://www.emudhra.com/
https://www.emudhra.com/
https://assets.whitepaper.io/documents/
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/Blockchain_Landregistry_Report
https://static1.squarespace.com/static/Blockchain_Landregistry_Report
	Chapter 1: Blockchain: A New Era of Technology
	1.1 Introduction
	1.1.1 What Is Blockchain and How It Works?
	1.1.2 Basic Framework of Blockchain
	1.2 Types of Blockchain with Its Structure
	1.3 Smart Contracts and Its Benefits
	1.4 Centralized and Decentralized Networks
	1.5 Blockchain Challenges
	1.6 History of Blockchain
	1.7 Comparison of Blockchain with Notebook
	1.8 Future of Blockchain in Industrial Applications
	1.8.1 Telecommunication
	1.8.2 Healthcare
	1.9 Case Studies of Blockchain
	1.9.1 Judicial System of India with Its Issue and Blockchain Solutions
	1.10 Maintenance of Land Records Using Blockchain
	1.10.1 Current Scenarios
	1.10.2 Blockchain Solutions
	1.11 Conclusion
	References