GAME-BC: A Graph Attention Model for Exploring Bitcoin Crime
GAME-BC: A Graph Attention Model for Exploring 
Bitcoin Crime 
Kai Sun 
School of Computer 
Beijing Information Science and 
Technology University 
Sensing and Computational Intelligence 
Joint Lab  
Beijing Information Science and 
Technology University 
Beijing, China 
sunkai0211@163.com 
Kun Meng* 
School of Computer 
Beijing Information Science and 
Technology University 
Sensing and Computational Intelligence 
Joint Lab  
Beijing Information Science and 
Technology University 
Beijing, China 
mengkun1024@163.com 
Ziqiang Zheng 
School of Computer 
Beijing Information Science and 
Technology University 
Sensing and Computational Intelligence 
Joint Lab  
Beijing Information Science and 
Technology University 
Beijing, China 
zhengzq2333@163.com 
Abstract—Blockchain technology has been invented as a 
fundamental technique to the cryptocurrency Bitcoin in 2008, 
which is decentralized, consensus and cryptographic leger. 
However, due to the anonymity of the Blockchain, Bitcoin has 
been becoming one critical finance platform applied to transfer 
or hidden criminal income by offenders. Bitcoin crime refers to 
criminal activities which use Bitcoin as a criminal tools, criminal 
object or criminal settlement. Typical bitcoin crimes include 
online gambling, money laundering, fraud and more. To address 
these issues, our work aims to propose an efficient method to 
find transactions related with Bitcoin crime in the Bitcoin 
network. Which will efficiently support regulators to combat 
Bitcoin crimes. Through collecting and concluding kinds of 
Bitcoin crimes, we find several typical relation patterns among 
Bitcoin transactions with respect to crimes, and then construct 
and analysis a bitcoin criminal transaction network. At last, we 
study a graph neural network model with attention mechanisms 
to detect illegal transactions. Experimental results show that our 
method can achieve better classification accuracy, and has the 
ability to efficiently detect criminal clues and locate related 
illegal transactions.  
Keywords—Blockchain technology, Bitcoin crime, Graph 
Neural Network, Attention Mechanism, Node Classification  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin play an important role in 
the Web 3.0 and metaverse. Blockchain is a distributed ledger 
technology that connects blocks of data in an ordered manner. 
It is made impossible to tamper or forge by means of 
cryptography. However, due to its decentralized and highly 
anonymous features, users can transfer money using Bitcoin 
without having to provide any identifying information [1][2]. 
As a result, the real user is hidden behind a virtual address, 
which gives criminals an opportunity to take advantage of this 
[3]. 
Bitcoin crime refers to criminal activities related to the use 
of bitcoin as a criminal tools, criminal object or criminal 
settlement. Specifically, criminals are using Bitcoin as a 
criminal tool and object of crime when conducting illegal 
activities such as money laundering and fraud. In August 2012, 
BTCST created a Ponzi scheme to lure victims into investing 
in Bitcoin-related opportunities that involved 700,000 
Bitcoins. On the other hand, criminals used bitcoin as a 
settlement method in dark web transactions and online 
gambling, which is typical of bitcoin crimes. in 2013, the US 
government shut down the dark web trading platform Silk 
Road[4], which involved a total of $1 billion in bitcoin. In 
2017, the "WannaCry" virus broke out on the global internet. 
It caused a large number of files on computers to be encrypted 
and demanded high ransoms to be paid in Bitcoin to unlock 
them. Hence, it is necessary to devise a method to detect 
transactions on the Bitcoin network related to Bitcoin crimes. 
It could help regulators to track illegal transaction patterns and 
provide meaningful insight into the fight against illegal 
criminal activity [5]. 
Blockchain is open and transparent, and the data in Bitcoin 
is openly traceable. However, for reasons of protecting user 
privacy, the anonymity of Bitcoin makes it difficult to link 
blockchain data to real users. Meanwhile, since the 
introduction of Bitcoin in 2008, the block height has been over 
750,000. All bitcoin transaction processes are publicly booked 
in the blockchain and the number of transactions is huge. As a 
result, it is difficult to detect a clear relationship between 
suspicious transactions and crime after many transactions. In 
the huge scale of bitcoin transaction data, traditional detection 
methods are able to identify illegal patterns. However, 
because it is limited by the complexity and diversity of 
transaction behaviors, traditional methods are difficult to 
detect all abnormal transactions comprehensively, and suffer 
from low accuracy and insufficient generalization [6][7]. 
Bitcoin transactions and historical information are 
publicly available. Although the users are anonymous, the 
transactions are all interconnected. We can detect transactions 
based on these connections and then track down illegal 
transactions. Bitcoin transactions are characterized by a 
directed graph, so it is natural that they can be analyzed from 
a graph perspective. Consequently, combining traditional 
feature engineering and graph data analysis can improve the 
accuracy of user transaction behavior analysis on Bitcoin [8]. 
However, current methods ignore global features and 
correlations between neighboring nodes, resulting in the loss 
of some important information. 
Based on the above analysis, this paper proposes a bitcoin 
illegal transaction detection method combining graph model 
and attention mechanism based on bitcoin transaction graph 
network. We aim to achieve the detection of illegal 
transactions through the classification of nodes in the Bitcoin 
transaction graph. Our main contributions include： 
1) We use a method for modelling Bitcoin network 
scenarios based on graph models. Mapping bitcoin data into a 
topological graph to achieve a complete representation of 
blockchain information. 
2) We complete feature extraction and classification of 
transaction nodes by combining an attention mechanism with 
a graph convolutional neural network model, which improves 
the accuracy of the model. 
342
2022 6th International Symposium on Computer Science and Intelligent Control (ISCSIC)
978-1-6654-5488-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ISCSIC57216.2022.00077
20
22
 6
th
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
si
um
 o
n 
C
om
pu
te
r S
ci
en
ce
 a
nd
 In
te
lli
ge
nt
 C
on
tro
l (
IS
C
SI
C
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
54
88
-9
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IS
C
SI
C
57
21
6.
20
22
.0
00
77
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3) Finally, we adopt the method of fusing the base features 
of transaction nodes and network features, which effectively 
improves performance of the transaction node classification 
model. 
II. RELATED WORK 
In recent years, security incidents in Bitcoin have been 
frequent, such as money laundering, theft, and fraudulent 
practices [9]. Researchers at Stanford University began 
focusing on money laundering in Bitcoin transactions as early 
as 2013, when they attempted to explore Bitcoin money 
laundering by clustering transaction addresses. Hirshman et al 
[10] first used Kmeans to cluster users in order to narrow 
down the target data. However, due to the lack of data labels, 
it was difficult to verify the effectiveness of the algorithm in 
tracking "bitcoin mixing" services. But they find that the 
transaction behaviors of some users are clearly abnormal after 
clustering, laying the foundation for future research into 
abnormal patterns in transaction data. Pham et al [11][12] use 
network analysis techniques to study bitcoin transactions. 
They first extracted user features and transaction features 
related to illegal behaviors patterns and used the local outlier 
detection algorithm Local Outlier Factor (LOF) to construct 
an abnormal detection model. Due to the lack of data labels, 
the authors used three approaches as a way to evaluate the 
validity of their study: checking real cases, comparing the 
distance to Kmeans clustering centers, and comparing the 
consistency of abnormal transactions with abnormal users. 
Based on Pham et al.'s research, to solve the problem of high 
computational complexity when the LOF algorithm is applied 
to large-scale Bitcoin transaction data, Monamo et al [13][14] 
proposed to use trimmed-Kmeans, an algorithm that can 
achieve both cluster analysis and anomaly detection, for 
abnormal transaction detection. In this paper, we analysis the 
transaction characteristics of illegal behaviors in Bitcoin and 
propose a classification model to classify Bitcoin transactions. 
Graph neural networks have been applied in many fields 
and it can perform multiple tasks such as node classification, 
node relationship prediction, network similarity, etc. Weber et 
al [15][16] did an exploration of graph convolutional networks 
for detecting illegal transactions in the Bitcoin network. They 
mapped bitcoin data into a graph network and transformed the 
clustering problem of users and transactions into a 
classification problem of nodes in the graph. Based on this, 
they applied the Graph Convolutional Network (GCN) 
method to detect illegal transaction nodes, but did not achieve 
good results. Alarab et al [17][18] improved on the classical 
graph convolutional network. They proposed to connect the 
node embedding obtained from the graph convolution layer 
with a single hidden layer obtained from a linear 
transformation of the node feature matrix, introducing the idea 
of feature fusion for the first time in deep learning. In 2021, 
Chen et al [19] used publicly available Bitcoin data to collect 
theft events in it and captured behavioral features and some 
basic network features in terms of feature extraction. They 
used five supervised learning methods such as Support Vector 
Machine (SVM) and three unsupervised learning methods 
such as LOF to detect frequent bitcoin thefts. Based on this, 
we explore the mining of richer features related to illegal 
behaviors in the Bitcoin graph network using interaction 
information. 
III. DATA, FEATURE AND METHODS 
A. Bitcoin Data 
The data in bitcoin is stored on the blockchain in the form 
of a distributed ledger, and the raw data of the blockchain is 
stored in the form of data files on the full nodes of the 
blockchain network. These data files constitute the basis of the 
blockchain, and are also the most effective way to obtain block 
and transaction data for blockchain data analysis. An 
innovative aspect of this paper is to map bitcoin data into a 
graph structure. We first parse and integrate the raw data. Then 
valid information is extracted and blocks of information that 
are not relevant to the transaction are eliminated. Finally, the 
transaction graph is constructed according to the relationship 
that the output of the previous transaction is the input of the 
next transaction. 
Tx1
Input:
Add1
Output:
Add2
Add3
Tx2
Input:
Add4
Add5
Output:
Add6
Tx3
Input:
Add2
Add6
Output:
Add7
Add8
Tx4
Input:
Add8
Output:
Add9
Add10
 
Fig. 1. Bitcoin trading graph construction relationship 
The graph consists of nodes and edges, so as shown in 
Fig.1, the nodes of the graph in this paper represent 
transactions and the edges represent the flow of bitcoins 
between transactions. Different bitcoin crimes are expressed 
in different ways in the bitcoin transaction graph. Criminals 
usually make a number of transactions when bitcoin 
laundering, which is reflected in the transaction graph where 
multiple clusters of nodes appear. This has important 
implications for the analysis of characterization efforts. 
B. Feature Construction 
Different illicit transactions generally have different 
behavioral characteristics. For example, in money laundering 
transactions, the bitcoin addresses involved in the transaction 
are active for a short period of time and the average number 
of input and output addresses for the whole transaction is 
usually high. At the same time, criminals will often use many 
small transactions to increase the concealment of their money 
laundering behavior. For theft transactions, criminals often 
have a large number of wallet addresses, and the average 
number of input and output amounts between transaction 
addresses is roughly equal. Therefore, one of our main tasks 
is to filter out the more influential features based on the 
features provided by the Elliptic dataset. We filtered the 
features based on the Pearson product-moment correlation 
coefficient and the feature dispersion perspective. The aim of 
this work is to remove features with high correlation and 
dispersion, thereby reducing the feature dimensionality in 
order to increase the accuracy of the training. 
C. Detecting Methods 
Our proposed approach is shown in Fig.2 and is divided 
into two main modules: an attention layer and a graph feature 
convolution layer. 
343
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Fig. 2. Model framework diagram 
The overall flow of the model is as follows: first, the 
classifier model takes as input the feature information matrix 
of the bitcoin transaction and the graph information matrix of 
the bitcoin transaction consisting of the transaction 
relationships. By optimizing the classifier model for "illegal 
and legal" classification, the intermediate features are used as 
the output. This process can be interpreted as increasing the 
correlation between intermediate features and abnormal 
illegal transactions. The aim is to solve the problem of 
extracting transaction graph features related to illegal behavior 
and to optimize the computational cost. Subsequently, the 
extracted transaction graph features are stitched with the 
feature information of the transactions themselves. The new 
feature vector obtained is used as the input to the classifier, 
and the final classification results for the illegal and legal 
classes are obtained. Our proposed method attempts to solve 
the problem of effective use of graph information in the 
detection of illegal transaction behavior, while attempting to 
improve the detection accuracy of the model. 
The advantages of the attention mechanism approach in 
the Bitcoin transaction graph are as follows: The graph 
attention mechanism is a strategy that uses self-attention to 
compute the hidden features of each node in the graph by 
distributing attention values according to the importance of 
neighboring transaction nodes. It is flexible, efficient and 
portable in the generation of embedding vectors for bitcoin 
transaction nodes. 
In this method, the Elliptic dataset contains the Bitcoin 
transaction graph 𝐺 = (𝑁, 𝐸), where 𝑁 represents the set of 
transaction nodes and 𝐸  represents the set of edges in the 
graph. As shown in Equation (1) below, the input to the 
attention model is the set of features ℎ of the transaction nodes, 
each dimension represents the feature vector matrix of a node, 
and the output is the updated node embedding matrix ℎ′. 
ℎ = {ℎ
→
1, ℎ
→
2, ℎ
→
3…ℎ
→
𝑁}, ℎ
→
1 ∈ ℝ𝐹                   (1) 
The convolutional layer is similar to the feedforward layer 
in that the output of each layer represents a new set of node 
feature vectors polymerized by an attention mechanism. To 
achieve the transformation of feature dimensions a weight 
matrix W ∈ ℝ𝐹′×𝐹 needs to be trained, where the attentional 
machine value α:ℝ𝐹′ × ℝ𝐹′ → ℝ  is introduced for self-
attention, where the attentional correlation coefficient is 
expressed as Equation (2), which represents the importance 
metric of node 𝑗 to node 𝑖. 
𝑒𝑖𝑗 = 𝑎(𝑊ℎ′
→
,𝑊ℎj
′
→
)                      (2) 
The complete attention mechanism is expressed as 
Equation (3), where 𝒩𝑖 represents all neighboring nodes of 
node 𝑖 : 
𝛼𝑖𝑗 =
exp( LeakyReLU (𝐚
→𝑇[𝐖𝐡
→
𝑖∥𝐖ℎ
→
𝑗]))
∑ exp⁡(LeakyReLU⁡(𝐚
→𝑇[𝐖
→
𝑖∥𝐖
→
𝑘]))
𝑘∈𝒩𝑖
       (3) 
In addition, we propose a fusion feature extraction method. 
The process of node feature extraction for the Bitcoin 
transaction graph is shown in Fig.3 below. First, the blue 
module process is to extract the graph features of each node. 
After four attention convolution layers, a node embedding 
vector with 64-dimensional feature information is passed. 
Then self-attention weighting is performed to obtain the node 
graph feature vector. Based on the connection relationship 
between nodes, all node feature vectors are superimposed and 
summed to obtain node aggregation features. The feature 
aggregation method is chosen as a superposition summation 
rather than a stitching. This is to deal with the problem of the 
number of nodes in the graph varying from scene to scene 
using a defined network structure, and also to preserve 
information on the number of nodes. The nodes' aggregated 
graph feature vectors are stitched together with the nodes' own 
feature vectors (red module) to obtain the initial 128-
dimensional fused feature vector. Again, weighted by the self-
attentive network, the final fused feature vector of transaction 
nodes with dimension 128 is obtained. 
 
Fig. 3. Schematic diagram of the feature fusion process 
344
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IV. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 
A. The Elliptic Dataset 
In this experiment, we chose Elliptic which provides a 
dataset of bitcoin with tagging. The Elliptic dataset is tagged 
with legal transaction entity nodes and illegal transaction 
entity nodes. Illegal transaction entity nodes are transacting 
with money laundering organizations, Ponzi schemes, 
ransomware, telecoms fraud, etc. The Elliptic dataset has 
203769 transaction nodes and 234355 directed bitcoin 
transaction streams. Of these, about 2% (4545) transactions 
were marked as illegal, 21% (42019) transactions were 
marked as legal, and the rest were marked as unknown. In 
addition to this, the dataset was divided into 49 time steps. 
The Elliptic dataset provides information on the data at 49 
time steps, each of which can be processed into a graph 
structured data. The nodes in the graph structured data are 
each transactional entity and there are 166 dimensional 
features on each node. The first 94 dimensional features are 
the features that exist on the nodes themselves, and the other 
72-dimensional features are the features obtained by 
aggregating the relational nodes. The edge relationship 
between nodes represents the existence of a transactional 
relationship between nodes. Each node has its own label, and 
there are 3 types of labels, namely illegal, legal and unknown. 
B. Experimental Setup 
The data from the Elliptic dataset is divided into positive 
and negative samples. The negative samples were defined as 
illegally labelled transaction nodes and the positive samples 
as legally labelled samples. The training and test sets were 
divided in the ratio of 7:3, where the first 34 time steps were 
the training data and the last 15 time steps were the test data. 
After removing the unlabeled node samples, the total number 
of node samples in the training set was 29896, of which 3668 
were illegal transaction nodes. The total number of node 
samples in the test set was 16,670, of which 1,083 were illegal 
transaction nodes. 
For the experimental model setup, the Adam optimizer 
was used for training, with 650 rounds of iterative training. 
The learning rate was set at 0.005 and the dropout rate at 0.6 
after iterative adjustment. 35 time steps of data were used for 
training and 14 subsequent time steps were used for validation 
evaluation. The hidden layer feature dimensions were set to 
100 and 22, and the input data were subjected to batch gradient 
descent in multiple continuous time step windows in each 
round. The transaction data contained within each time-step 
window differed, but were largely maintained at an average 
level. Cross entropy is used here as the loss function due to the 
extremely uneven distribution of the samples' own labels.  
In order to explore the optimal structure of an attention-
based graph neural network model for detecting illegal trading 
behavior in the Bitcoin network, we analyzed the effect of 
different model structures on detection effectiveness. We first 
try to use skip connections in the structure, and try different 
graph-based attention models for the neural network, as well 
as try to adjust the hyperparameters used in the training. 
Finally, we evaluate the impact of the number of intermediate 
node embeddings and the number of training iterations for the 
training set, the validation set and for accuracy. 
C. Results and Discussion 
The final results on the test set are shown in Fig.4. The 
attention model proposed in this paper outperforms both the 
GCN model and the MLP+GCN model in terms of accuracy, 
recall and the overall evaluation metric F1. Moreover, it 
improved 13.6 and 2.2 percentage points in F1 score and 
accuracy rate respectively compared with the GCN model and 
MLP+GCN model. 
 
Fig. 4. Experimental results 
It can also be seen from Fig.5 that the training and 
validation loss curves do not fluctuate significantly during the 
training process, and the model converges stably and is 
controllable overall. The validation set dynamically adjusts 
the hyperparameters during the training process, effectively 
avoiding the occurrence of overfitting and underfitting. This 
demonstrates that the attention mechanism is able to distribute 
different weights to neighboring nodes depending on their 
characteristics, which reflects the influence of certain 
important nodes and is consistent with our intuition in reality. 
In addition, with the introduction of the attention mechanism, 
the computation of the embedding of new transaction nodes is 
only related to the nodes neighboring on the shared edge, 
without the need to obtain information about the whole 
transaction graph. Above all, it is more friendly to the 
computational and memory resources needed to carry out the 
experiment. 
 
 
Fig. 5. Training effect graph 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
We propose a model based on the attention mechanism to 
detect illegal transactions in the Bitcoin transaction network. 
Compared to GCN, the attention mechanism does not rely on 
spectral theory, which allows it to be used as an inductive 
model, meaning that the full graph nodes do not have to be 
predicted. And to prevent the feature information of the nodes 
themselves from being overwhelmed by neighboring nodes, 
the concept of feature fusion is introduced in the attention 
345
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
layer. Experimental results show that our proposed attention 
mechanism combined with graph neural networks 
significantly improves the performance of traditional graph 
neural network models applied only. 
Bitcoin detection by using graph structured data is highly 
dependent on the quality of the graph structure. For the Bitcoin 
network as a whole, the dataset we used is small and suffers 
from class imbalance. In future work, we consider applying 
larger bitcoin graph structure datasets to detection and try to 
solve the class imbalance problem for the dataset. The 
optimization of graph convolutional networks in combination 
with other models will also be further explored. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Alabdulwahhab F A. “Web 3.0: the decentralized web blockchain 
networks and protocol innovation,” 2018 1st International Conference 
on Computer Applications & Information Security (ICCAIS), IEEE, 
2018, pp.1-4. 
[2] Passinsky, Asya. "Should Bitcoin be classified as money?" Journal of 
Social Ontology 6.2, 2020, pp. 281-292. 
[3] Cao, R., Meng, K., Sun, K., & Zheng, Z. “Evaluation Model of Data 
Consistency Mechanism in Decentralized Network Application.” In 
2021 IEEE 9th International Conference on Information, 
Communication and Networks (ICICN), 2021, pp. 389-394. 
[4] Braga, Romulo Rhemo Palitot, and Arthur Augusto Barbosa Luna. 
"Dark Web and Bitcoin: An Analysis of the Impact of Digital 
Anonymate and Cryptocurrencies in the Practice of Money Laundering 
Crime," Direito e Desenvolvimento, vol.50, pp.270, 2018. 
[5] Berdik D, Otoum S, Schmidt N, et al. “A survey on blockchain for 
information systems management and security.” Information 
Processing & Management, vol.58, no.1, pp.102397, 2021. 
[6] Xiaomeng J, Fan Z, Shenwen L, et al. “Data Analysis of Bitcoin 
Blockchain Network Nodes,” 2020 15th IEEE Conference on 
Industrial Electronics and Applications (ICIEA). IEEE, 2020, pp.1891-
1895. 
[7] Lee C, Maharjan S, Ko K, et al. “Toward detecting illegal transactions 
on bitcoin using machine-learning methods” International Conference 
on Blockchain and Trustworthy Systems. Springer, Singapore, 2019, 
pp.520-533. 
[8] Gaihre A, Luo Y, Liu H. “Do bitcoin users really care about anonymity? 
an analysis of the bitcoin transaction graph” 2018 IEEE International 
Conference on Big Data (Big Data). IEEE, 2018, pp.1198-1207. 
[9] Van Wegberg, Rolf, Jan-Jaap Oerlemans, and Oskar van Deventer. 
"Bitcoin money laundering: mixed results? An explorative study on 
money laundering of cybercrime proceeds using bitcoin," Journal of 
Financial Crime, 2018. 
[10] Hirshman, Jason, Yifei Huang, and Stephen Macke. "Unsupervised 
approaches to detecting anomalous behavior in the bitcoin transaction 
network," Technical report, Stanford University, 2013. 
[11] Pham, Thai, and Steven Lee. "Anomaly detection in the bitcoin system-
a network perspective," arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.03942, 2016. 
[12] Pham, Thai, and Steven Lee. "Anomaly detection in bitcoin network 
using unsupervised learning methods." arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1611.03941, 2016. 
[13] Monamo, Patrick, Vukosi Marivate, and Bheki Twala. "Unsupervised 
learning for robust Bitcoin fraud detection," 2016 Information Security 
for South Africa (ISSA). IEEE, 2016, pp.129-134. 
[14] Monamo, Patrick M., Vukosi Marivate, and Bhesipho Twala. "A 
multifaceted approach to Bitcoin fraud detection: Global and local 
outliers," 2016 15th IEEE International Conference on Machine 
Learning and Applications (ICMLA). IEEE, 2016, pp.188-194. 
[15] Weber M, Chen J, Suzumura T, et al. Scalable graph learning for anti-
money laundering: A first look[J]. arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.00076, 
2018. 
[16] Weber, Mark, et al. "Anti-money laundering in bitcoin: Experimenting 
with graph convolutional networks for financial forensics," arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1908.02591, 2019. 
[17] Alarab, Ismail, Simant Prakoonwit, and Mohamed Ikbal Nacer. 
"Competence of graph convolutional networks for anti-money 
laundering in bitcoin blockchain." Proceedings of the 2020 5th 
International Conference on Machine Learning Technologies, 2020, 
pp.23-27. 
[18] Alarab, Ismail, and Simant Prakoonwit. "Graph-Based LSTM for Anti-
money Laundering: Experimenting Temporal Graph Convolutional 
Network with Bitcoin Data," Neural Processing Letters, 2022, pp.1-19. 
[19] Chen, Binjie, Fushan Wei, and Chunxiang Gu. "Bitcoin Theft 
Detection Based on Supervised Machine Learning Algorithms," 
Security and Communication Networks 2021, 2021. 
 
346
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.