Proof of Travel for Trust-Based Data Validation in V2I Communication
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 1
Proof of Travel for Trust-Based Data Validation in
V2I Communication
Dajiang Suo, Baichuan Mo, Jinhua Zhao, and Sanjay E. Sarma
Abstract—Previous work on misbehavior detection and trust
management for Vehicle-to-Everything (V2X) communication
security is effective in identifying falsified and malicious V2X
data. Each vehicle in a given region can be a witness to report
on the misbehavior of other nearby vehicles, which will then be
added to a ”blacklist.” However, there may not exist enough
witness vehicles that are willing to opt-in in the early stage
of connected-vehicle deployment. In this paper, we propose a
”whitelisting” approach to V2X security, titled Proof-of-Travel
(POT), which leverages the support of roadside infrastructure.
Our goal is to transform the power of cryptography techniques
embedded within Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) protocols into
game-theoretic mechanisms to incentivize connected-vehicle data
sharing and validate data trustworthiness simultaneously.
The key idea is to determine the reputation of and the
contribution made by a vehicle based on its distance traveled and
the information it shared through V2I channels. In particular,
the total vehicle miles traveled for a vehicle must be testified
by digital signatures signed by each infrastructure component
along the path of its movement. While building a chain of
proofs of spatial movement creates burdens for malicious vehicles,
acquiring proofs does not result in extra costs for normal vehicles,
which naturally want to move from the origin to the destination.
The POT protocol is used to enhance the security of previous
voting-based data validation algorithms for V2I crowdsensing
applications. For the POT-enhanced voting, we prove that all
vehicles choosing to cheat are not a pure Nash equilibrium using
game-theoretic analysis. Simulation results suggest that the POT-
enhanced voting is more robust to malicious data.
Index Terms—V2I, crowdsensing, security, Blockchain, game
theory, voting.
I. INTRODUCTION
VEHICLE-to-Infrastructure (V2I) communication tech-
nologies show promises in improving traffic in urban
areas during rush hours [1] and assisting the transportation
management center (TMC) in responding to emergency situa-
tions [2], [3], [4]. While the V2I data about vehicle movement
and status can be used for signal control to ameliorate traffic
congestions, the data containing sensing information about
road emergencies (e.g., incidents or work zones) can help the
TMC and emergency responders allocate rescuing resources,
plan routes [4], and determine if it is necessary to create
D. Suo and S. Sarma are with the Department of Mechanical Engineering,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. USA e-mail:
djsuo, sesarma@mit.edu.
B. Mo is with the Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering,
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. USA e-mail:
baichuan@mit.edu.
J. Zhao is with the Department of Urban Studies and Planning, Mas-
sachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, MA, 02139. USA e-mail:
jinhua@mit.edu.
Corresponding author: Dajiang Suo (djsuo@mit.edu)
geofences around incident sites [5], [6]. Previous studies show
that information about road incidents sent from vehicles to
public safety answering points (PSAP) contributes to reducing
the response time of emergency vehicles for achieving a low
mortality rate [7].
For a traffic event to be broadcasted through V2I channels,
the information regarding the time, location, severity, and
surrounding environment of the event is crucial for the TMC
to make correct decisions [8]. However, it is challenging for
a roadside unit (RSU) to verify a nearby V2I event in real-
time before disseminating it to the TMC due to the existence
of malicious vehicle nodes. For example, an adversary who
holds valid vehicle credentials can fabricate vehicle identities
and have compromised vehicles send fake V2I messages to
infrastructure [9], [10], [11].
Previous work on V2X security focuses on eliminating mis-
behaving vehicles by detecting malicious Vehicle-to-Vehicle
(V2V) [12], [13], V2I [14], or vehicle-to-cloud (V2C) mes-
sages [15]. Additionally, any connected vehicle can be a
”witness” and share misbehavior reports with the misbehavior
authority (MA) [16], [17]. The MA can then decide whether
to revocate V2X certificates assigned to a given vehicle based
on the misbehavior reports, as shown in Fig. 1 (the right part).
Although these approaches are proved to be effective in
detecting and reporting malicious behaviors to the MA, there
may not exist enough ”witness” vehicles with V2X connec-
tivity in the early stage of connected vehicle deployment [18].
More importantly, owners of connected vehicles need incen-
tives to opt-in for V2X services and share their observations. In
general, previous work does not answer another fundamental
question regarding the adoption of V2I services: How can
we incorporate incentive mechanisms into V2X protocols to
encourage each vehicle to share its own data about vehicle
movement, traffic events, and trust evaluations for other vehi-
cles?
As a complement to the previous ”blacklisting approaches”
that pay more attention to eliminating misbehavior by detec-
tion, this paper proposes a Proof-of-Travel (POT) protocol
to simultaneously tackle the issues of incentive designs and
the trustworthiness of V2I-reported data. The POT protocol
is essentially a ”whitelisting approach” in the sense that it
focuses on ”impeding” misbehavior by increasing the cost of
being malicious, as shown in Fig. 1. At the same time, the POT
protocol can incentivize connected vehicle adoption and V2I
data exchange by enabling normal vehicles to gain a reputation
from the travel proof. The desire to maintain a high reputa-
tion score, which is derived from cryptography mechanisms
embedded within the POT protocol, can then serve as the
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 2
Fig. 1: The role of the Proof of Travel protocol in the V2I security landscape.
incentive to promote the sharing activities of V2I data. While
building a chain of proofs of spatial movement creates burdens
for malicious vehicles to launch attacks, acquiring proofs does
not result in extra costs for normal vehicles, which naturally
want to move from the origin to the destination. Compared to
our previous work in [19], this paper makes extensions and
contributions in the following aspects.
• Setting up the trust foundation for incentivizing V2X
adoption. Previously, participants for V2X testing ac-
tivities are often chosen on a voluntary basis. For ex-
ample, a traditional vehicle model whose owner wants
to opt in must be installed with aftermarket onboard
units (OBUs) supporting wireless vehicular communica-
tion [20]. Therefore, the automotive and transportation
industries need to find effective and secure ways of
engaging more stakeholders and customers before V2X
technologies become ready for mass deployment. Inspired
by the altruistic behaviors of users to gain reputational
points in crowdsensing platforms, we propose a proof of
travel protocol (POT) to measure each vehicle’s contribu-
tions to vehicular networks in a trustworthy manner. The
proposed POT protocol transforms a vehicle’s movement
into reputational points by using cryptographic techniques
such that it is impossible for an adversary group to gain
a reputation unless they are willing to pay the extra cost
incurred by ”compulsory” spatial movement. Unlike pre-
vious proof-based consensus protocols [21], [22], which
introduce computational burden for both normal and ma-
licious nodes, the voting algorithm building on the POT
protocol aims to prevent malicious nodes from gaining
disproportional influence on the network by increasing
their burdens of spatial movement without incurring extra
cost for normal vehicles. As a result, adversaries will
lose interest in tampering with or fabricating V2I data if
the cost of these malicious behaviors is greater than the
rewards they earn, which is justified by using probabilistic
analysis.
• Improving previous voting-based data validation algo-
rithms by using the proposed POT protocol. While both
the traditional plurality voting and the POT-enhanced
voting algorithms can be used to verify the authenticity
and accuracy of traffic events shared by nearby vehicles
in real time, the latter is more robust. Specifically, the
POT-enhanced voting prevents the trust mechanisms from
being abused by adversaries with forged, incorrect, or
inaccurate information about traffic and roads [8]. With
reasonable assumptions, we prove that all vehicles choos-
ing to cheat is not a pure Nash equilibrium based on
game-theoretic analysis.
• Evaluating the security and the performance of the POT-
enhanced data validation algorithm through a simulation
study. For security, the simulation results suggest that the
proposed POT-enhanced voting algorithm is more robust
to malicious V2I reports than the benchmark algorithm.
When the POT protocol is used, at least a 10% decrease
in the percentage of invalid events can be achieved with
reasonable voting parameters. Additionally, the simula-
tion results support the tradeoff decision between the
event criticality (how much tolerance we have regarding
event correctness) and the timing constraint (how quickly
the event needs to be confirmed and routed) for different
types of V2I-based crowdsensing applications.
This paper is organized as follows. Section II presents
previous work on the incentive design for V2X communication
and the security mechanisms for validating V2I data. In
Section III, we present assumptions about adversaries and the
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 3
vehicular network. The detailed procedures of collecting proof
of travel by vehicles and V2I voting game for traffic event
validation are given in Sections IV and V. In Sections VI
and VII, we perform security analysis on the proposed POT
protocol and the POT-enhanced voting algorithm and evaluate
their security and performance through a simulation study.
Section VIII discusses issues regarding real-world deployment.
Section IX concludes by summarizing the main results and
presenting unresolved issues in the POT protocol as future
work.
II. PREVIOUS WORK
Previous work on the incentive designs and the trustworthi-
ness of V2I-reported data disseminated in vehicular networks
are often closely related. Specifically, there exist security
mechanisms designed for two stages in the V2I data life cycle:
the process of data transmission between vehicles and infras-
tructure and the process of data recording in distributed ledgers
maintained and shared among infrastructure components, as
summarized in Table I.
For the process of data transmission between vehicles and
infrastructure, previous work has discussed incentivizing each
connected vehicle to share the data regarding its status, move-
ment, and observations of the surrounding environment by
digital rewards (e.g., digital coins) [21], [24]. However, rather
than determining the reward based on the data transmission
frequency[21] or the number of times a vehicle participates
in data transmission and forwarding activities[24], our paper
proposes the idea of using a vehicle’s distance traveled to
measure its contributions and thus determine its rewards. One
unique feature of the distance value in the proposed POT
protocol is that the vehicle miles traveled is verifiable as the
corresponding distance is derived from a chain of location
proofs the vehicle has acquired from RSUs along its path of
movement [30].
After an RSU receives data shared by a vehicle, the RSU
needs to verify the digital identity of the vehicle for Se-
curity considerations. In addition to authentication based on
cryptography methods, such as message authentication code
and digital signatures [32], there are two trust-based methods
for identity verification based on vehicle reputation. First, the
digital rewards earned by the vehicle can be used to determine
its reputation as the value measures the contribution the vehicle
makes to data-sharing activities after it joins the network
for a period of time. This type of method can suffer the
potential of Sybil attacks in which an inside adversary use
stole vehicles or compromise vehicle credentials to fabricate
multiple digital identities such that the adversary can gain a
disproportionately stake or influence on the network [33]. One
solution to prevent identity spoofing is to require the vehicle
to show location proofs, which are issued by RSUs the vehicle
has interacted with during the path of its movement [26],
[27], [29]. The second way is to have a trusted infrastructure
aggregate rating of trust evaluation from nearby vehicles with
which the target vehicle has exchanged data to derive a total
reputation score [25], [22]. This type of method assumes a
certain level of the penetration rate of vehicles with V2X
connectivity.
If vehicle-shared data contains information about a traffic
event with a high criticality level (e.g., incidents) and requires
emergency responses, an RSU needs to verify the authenticity
of these data before disseminating and reporting them to the
transportation management center. In addition to relying on
cryptography-based approaches [21], [23], [22] or redundancy
by relying on heterogeneous channels [30], the RSU can also
utilize voting algorithms that are Byzantine fault tolerant to
determine the event accuracy and authenticity when it receives
multiple V2I messages regarding the same traffic event [28].
Our paper develops a voting algorithm in which the weight
of each vote corresponds to the sender’s reputation score
determined by its previous proof of travel behaviors, which
is different from previous voting-based approaches for V2I
message authenticity [24], [25], [28].
Although the process of V2I data recording (in Table I)
is not the focus of this paper, we summarize previous work
to give readers a complete view of the V2I data life cycle.
In particular, recent work recommends the use of distributed
ledgers shared among RSUs to store V2I-shared data for
future use, such as post-event investigation by law enforce-
ment agencies [34], [35]. For this reason, we need to have
mechanisms for ensuring data consistency between different
ledgers (i.e., sequence of data records) and preventing compro-
mised RSUs from adding fabricated data records or tampering
with the ledgers. Previous work relies on the proof-of-work
(POW) [21], [22], proof-of-stake (POS) protocols [23], or the
combination of both [25] to select validators among RSUs,
which construct, audit, and propose new data blocks to be
written into distributed ledgers. It is worth mentioning that
the issues of RSUs’ incentives of contributing their compu-
tation and storage resources for data recording [23] and the
determination of trust in RSUs have not been fully explored
and deserve more attention.
III. ATTACK MODELS AND SYSTEM ASSUMPTIONS
The POT protocol targets adversaries who want to compro-
mise V2I-based transportation applications that utilize crowd-
sourced information from multiple vehicles. In particular, we
are interested in the inside adversary who can indirectly
compromise the V2I services by spoofing fake vehicle iden-
tities and submitting falsified events or sensing data. Also,
the adversary can spoof multiple digital identities to flood
the RSUs with bogus information. These attacks become
possible if someone can get easy access to cryptography
materials embedded within the onboard units (OBUs), such as
”evil mechanics” [36]. Due to the existence of after-market
devices during the early phase of V2X deployment, it is
straightforward for someone to gain expertise in manipulating
V2X OBUs [11]. For example, the local transportation agency
in Tampa, Florida in the U.S. was trying to hire instructors
and students from a local college through a paid internship
to install over 1,000 OBUs in vehicles that participated in the
connected vehicle pilot program [37].
Additionally, we assume that adversaries are motivated by
profit-seeking behaviors, i.e., adversaries can gain economic
benefits from fabricating vehicle identities and spoofing V2I
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 4
TABLE I: Previous work on the incentive designs and the trustworthiness of V2I data dissemination and recording
Data transmission between vehicles and RSUs Data recording in distributed ledgers shared among RSUs
Authors Incentives for
vehicles sharing
data
Trust on the vehi-
cle itself
Authenticity of
vehicle-shared
data
Incentives for
RSUs recording
data
Trust on RSUs Consistency and
Tamperproofing
of data records
Liu et al. [21] Data coin based
on data contribu-
tion frequency
Verified by RSUs,
no details
POW, RSUs win-
ning in POW as
validators
Kang et al. [23] Verified by RSUs,
no details
Encourage high-
reputation miners,
i.e., RSUs, to
participate based
on contract theory
Aggregation of
trust ratings by
nearby vehicles
Delegated POS,
RSUs with higher
reputation as
validators
Li et al. [24] Data coins by for-
warding V2X mes-
sage
The amount of
coins owned
Voting algorithms
with Byzantine
fault tolerance
Yang et al. [25] Aggregation of
trust ratings by
nearby vehicles
Voting algorithms
based on Bayesian
inference
POW and POS,
RSUs with higher
stake more likely
to win in POW
Liu et al. [22] Aggregation of
trust ratings by
nearby vehicles
and false message
rate
Identity-based
group signature
POW, RSUs win-
ning in POW as
validators
Chang et al. [26] Path of physical
movement attested
by timestamp Lo-
cation certificates
issued by RSUs
Assuming that
RSUs are fully
trustworthy
Park et al. [27] Timestamp
location
certificates issued
by RSUs
Assuming that
RSUs are fully
trustworthy
Liu et al. [28] Proof of knowl-
edge shown by ve-
hicles
Voting algorithms
with Byzantine
fault tolerance
Baza et al. [29] Proof of work
shown by vehicles
Path of physical
movement attested
by timestamp Lo-
cation certificates
issued by RSUs
Relying on
threshold signature
(from multiple
RSUs) as one
RSU can be
compromised
Falco et al. [30] Distributed hash
table
Redundency in the
distributed hash ta-
ble
OEMs to protect
data and secure
OTA update
Internal server
owned by OEMs
POW, full
blockchain node
run by OEMs or
fleet manager
Chan et al. [31] In-vehicle network
blockchain
Hash record stored
on blockchain
This paper Reputation or
stake earned by
proof of vehicle
movement
Path of physical
movement attested
by timestamp Lo-
cation certificates
issued by RSUs
Voting algorithms
in which eligibil-
ity to vote is deter-
mined by proof of
travel
RSU semi-trusted
data with false traffic events. We assume that adversaries
are rational in an economic sense: adversaries will give up
launching attacks if the rewards of being malicious are less
than the cost incurred by following the POT protocol. From
the perspective of game theory, each vehicle, whether it is
normal or malicious, always tries to maximize its payoff.
This is because the proposed POT protocol is a ”whitelist-
ing” approach that impedes adversaries by increasing the cost
of launching attacks, rather than trying to detect malicious
behaviors or eliminating adversaries. For this reason, the only
prerequisite for each adversary to launch the attacks discussed
earlier is that the attacker must be in close proximity to
the target RSUs (i.e., within RSUs’ communication range) to
acquire location signatures (a concept that will be presented
later) in a sequential manner.
To further illustrate the relations between the attacks and
transportation applications, we present attack trees for V2I-
based transportation services that rely on crowdsource sensing
information shared by CVs, including road surface or local
weather notifications, traffic event and emergency management
and local sensing and dynamic map services, as shown in
Fig. 2. They are derived based on the architecture designs for
the communication between connected vehicles and the road-
side computing platforms proposed by the U.S. Department of
Transportation (DoT) [38].
a) Weather and road surface conditions report through
crowd-sensing: Since weather and road surface conditions
can influence traveler’s decisions, pavement friction, and
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 5
Fig. 2: The attack model of V2I-enabled crowdsensing applications.
vehicle performance and stability, it is beneficial for both
transportation agencies and individual travelers to get pre-
cise and dynamic views of road surface and environmental
conditions along all road segments [39]. Other than relying
on fixed-position roadside infrastructure-mounted sensors to
monitor road weather conditions, transportation agencies may
also leverage information from mobile sources. In regions
where infrastructure-mounted sensing devices only provide
limited coverage of observed areas, CV-based crowdsensing
can provide timely information about the weather and road
surface conditions that change dynamically. Previously with
smartphones, citizens could download apps to report real-time
weather and road surface conditions to transportation agencies
or weather service stations [40].
In the near future, as the adoption of CVs increases, we can
leverage V2I communication to use CVs as sensors for Spot
Weather Information Warning (SWIW) application [41]. One
example is the such as the Weather Data Environment program
(WxDE) in which environmental data collected by CVs can
be shared with the transportation management center through
V2I channels [42]. There exist industry standards that define
operating principles for V2I-based weather applications. For
example, the society of automotive engineers (SAE) has pub-
lished J2945/3, which defines interface requirements between
vehicles and infrastructure for weather applications [43].
While providing assistance to travel decisions or transporta-
tion management, the services can be compromised if the in-
formation shared by CVs is falsified or intentionally fabricated.
Although the security vulnerability might not directly lead to
safety incidents, the inconvenience due to mistakenly or even
maliciously reported weather and road information can result
in customer dissatisfaction and destroy people’s confidence in
connected vehicle technologies.
b) Transportation emergency management: Similar to
weather and road services, transportation agencies can use
emergency event information shared by CVs to make deci-
sions on sending professional teams for rescuing and med-
ical services. More importantly, the information is crucial
for evacuation plans in the events of natural or man-made
disasters [41]. For example, local DoTs in the U.S. have
been exploring the use of connected vehicle data to enhance
their situational awareness of real-time traffic and the actual
path of hurricanes such that citizens can be notified during
the evacuation process [44]. Failures in effective planning or
selecting efficient routes due to erroneous or even malicious
information can result in delays in evacuation or loss of life.
c) Local sensing and dynamic map services: An im-
portant V2I application is to fuse sensing information from
different traffic participants to form a “bird’s eye view” of
safety-critical areas, such as intersections. For example, the
standard on the data format and communication protocols for
sharing and fusing individual sensor information for building
Local Dynamic Map (LDM) services were discussed based
on ad hoc vehicular networks [45]. Vehicles can then rely on
the local dynamic map (LDM) services provided by RSUs for
collective perception and detecting objects in blind spots [46].
In the future, as the adoption of 5G continues to grow, we can
also leverage the high bandwidth enabled by millimeter-wave
communication for sharing raw data between vehicles and
infrastructure. Vehicles that are installed with high-definition
(HD) sensors, such as LiDAR, can upload raw sensing data to
edge servers [47]. Network operators can then leverage such
crowd-sourced sensing information to build and update HD
maps in real time. These efforts on standardization and cyber-
infrastructure development open new doors to building new
applications for vehicle perception and traffic control [48].
Although the timing constraints for building HD maps
need not be enforced with hard timing constraints as we did
for collision avoidance applications, falsified crowd-sourcing
data can compromise map quality and may eventually raise
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 6
safety concerns. While unauthorized sensing data contributors
can be eliminated by traditional security mechanisms (e.g., a
firewall) installed on the edge servers, it is difficult to filter
out malicious sensing data from vehicles that hold valid V2X
credentials. An inside adversary may tamper with HD sensor
data or inject noises to transform information attached to the
shared data.
IV. A PROOF OF TRAVEL PROTOCOL
A. Overview of the incentive designs
The mechanisms presented in this paper are motivated by
incentive designs in smartphone-based crowdsource sensing
platforms [49] in digital social networks, such as waze, a
mobile app that ranks users based on digital points each one
owns [50]. Previous studies show that reputational rewards,
the desire to be regarded as respectable due to altruistic
behavior [51], can motivate user participation in content-
sharing activities. This implies that it is possible to leverage the
desire of vehicle owners to gain a reputation for encouraging
them to opt-in to V2I services.
Similar to social networks, each entity in vehicular networks
may have the incentive to build reputation, which determines
its power and stake in the network in the long run [52]. This
section discusses how we can utilize cryptography techniques,
such as public-key infrastructure, hash functions, and digital
signatures, to build communication protocols between vehicles
and infrastructure to allow vehicles to build a chain of travel
poofs issued by infrastructure components. The accumulated
proofs assigned to a vehicle represent its contributions since it
joins the network and can be used to measure its reputation.
The proposed protocol that enables the proof-accumulation
process between vehicles and infrastructure aims to encourage
each vehicle to share V2I data about its movement and status
(e.g., position, speed, and acceleration, etc.) along its path
of movement by rewarding each vehicle with digital points,
as shown on the left in Fig. 3. To hold more “stake” and
earn reputational points in the vehicular network, a vehicle
must construct a chain of proofs for its spatial movement.
Specifically, the vehicle may request proof of its presence in
a given location at a particular time by sending its movement
status and credential information whenever it meets a roadside
unit (RSU). Since each proof is linked to its previous one
through the hash function, a type of cryptography mechanism,
these concatenated proofs become tamper resistant and form
a chain of trust. While building a chain of proofs of spatial
movement creates burdens for malicious vehicles whose only
goal is to compromise the system, acquiring proofs does not
result in extra cost for normal vehicles, which naturally want
to move from the origin to the destination. It is this asymmetric
cost in traveling that helps the proposed POT protocol to
mitigate malicious vehicles that try to gain adversarial rewards.
These reputational points that each vehicle gained from
travel proof can be used for data validation since an RSU
may aggregate information about a traffic event from different
vehicles in the surrounding region before disseminating the
event to the TMC, as shown on the right in Fig. 3. Compared to
previous work on plurality voting-based methods for achieving
TABLE II: Notation used in the proof collection
Symbol Meaning
vi A given vehicle denoted as i in vehicular networks
sit The status of vehicle i at time t
pkvi , skvi public and private key pairs held by vehicle i
σvi Digital signature of vehicle i
σrsuj Digital signature of rsu j
pkrsuj , skrsuj public and private key pairs held by RSU j
he The hash value of the information (eit) reported by
vehicle i
ls<t>
i,j Location signature issued by RSU j to vehicle i at time
t
hpre The hash of the location signature vi acquired from
the previous RSU along its path of movement
Byzantine fault tolerance in distributed systems [28], the secu-
rity of the voting game we proposed in this paper is strength-
ened as only vehicles which have gained a pre-determined
amount of reputational points are eligible to vote. This is
crucial for efficient transportation emergency management as
the TMC must have accurate and correct data about traffic
events for allocating rescuing and other necessary resources
to event sites.
B. Preliminaries
POT defines the V2I message format and the communica-
tion procedure for a vehicle to acquire location proofs, titled
location signature (formally defined later), from each RSU
along its path of movement. The chain of proofs held by a
vehicle testify both the vehicle’s claimed trajectory and its
contributions, forming the foundations for building incentive
mechanisms for V2X services. We give core definitions in
the POT protocol before presenting detailed communication
procedures.
Definition 5.1 A location signature (denoted as ls<t>
i,j )
issued by a RSU (denoted as rsuj) to vehicle vi at time t = tk
is defined as
pkrsuj ||pkvi ||tk||he||hpre||σrsuj (pkrsuj ||pkvi ||tk||he||hpre),
After receiving vehicle i’s request for location signature,
rsuj will check i’s digital signature σvi and sign on the
content within the request to generate the RSU’s corresponding
signature σtk
rsuj
, which testifies the vehicle i’s presence in a
particular location at a given time.
The definition presented here is different from the previous
work [26], [29] researching vehicle location as proof. In
particular, the contents signed by the RSU contain the hash of
the previous location signature vi collects earlier, and the hash
of vehicle reported events he. The former ensures any changes
in a location signature will result in the inconsistency between
the hash of that particular signature and the pre-hash value
in the next signature in the same chain of proofs, preventing
trajectory forgery. The hash value of events he plays the role of
“admitting” the contribution made by vi as the shared events
can be used by the TMC and other vehicles, as mentioned
earlier.
Definition 5.2 Proof of Travel for vehicle vi is the chain of
location signatures = lst0i,j , ls
t1
i,j+1, ..., ls
tT
i,j+T that vi acquired
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 7
Fig. 3: The proposed long-term and short-term incentive designs for trustworthy V2I communication.
from RSUs along the path of its movement during the time
interval T .
C. Detailed Communication Procedure
The POT protocol consists of three stages. A vehicle will
start to acquire and accumulate proofs from RSUs after it
joins the vehicular network, and the process continues until it
exits the road with V2X coverage. The reputation and reward
of each vehicle participating in V2I communication activities
(indicated by VVMT) are then determined by the length of
the chain of valid proofs the vehicle collects.
1) Stage-1: Initial proof generation: The proof-collection
process begins with a vehicle (vi) sending a location-signature
request reqt1vi = pkvi ||t1||e
t1
i ||pos
t1
i ||σvi(pkvi ||t1||e
t1
i ||pos
t1
i )
to the first RSU (rsu1) it meets after joining the vehicular
network, as shown in Fig. 4. The request consists of the
identity and authentication information of vi, such as its
encoded public key pkvi and the digital signature signed on
this request σvi(.), and the observed traffic events et1i or its
own real-time position post1i .
After receiving the request, rsu1 will authenticate vi’s
identity and the integrity of the request message by using
the attached digital signature σvi(.). It may also check the
plausibility of the information included in the request, such as
et1i or post1i , by using pre-defined heuristic rules. For example,
if the location of the event reported by the vehicle is far away
from the vehicle’s own location, or the vehicle is impossible to
pass the event site along its path, rsu1 may reject the request.
If results from all the identity, integrity, and rule-based
plausibility checks turn out to be valid, rsu1 will generate
a location signature lst1vi,rsu1
and send it back to vi.
2) State-2: Trajectory-encoded proof collection: When ve-
hicle vi meets the next RSU rsu2, it will attach the location
signature lst1vi,rsu1
acquired from rsu1 when sending a new
request reqt2vi , as shown in Fig. 4. Similarly, in addition to
verifying the new request based on the heuristics described
earlier, rsu2 will also check if the previous location signature
lst1vi,rsu1
is owned by vi, the vehicle sending the request
(ownership checks), has not expired (time of validity), and
is issued by a legitimate RSU (legitimacy checks), such as a
valid RSU who has registered with the trust authority and is
adjacent to or near rsu2.
If all checks are valid, rsu2 will construct a new location
signature lst2vi,rsu2
. However, other than concatenating all the
elements as discussed earlier, rsu2 will also attach the hash
value of the previous location signature lst1vi,rsu1
, sign on the
merged data, and send it back to vi. This process repeats
until the vehicle has collected enough location signatures to
form a chain of proofs, which are geo-time-stamped ledgers
of vi’s trajectory history verified by all RSUs along its path
of movement.
3) Stage-3: Determine vehicle stake or reputation based on
POT: The TA or any RSU can rely on the chain of proofs
owned by vi to determine its reputation (and the reward). We
propose verifiable vehicle miles traveled (VVMT), a concept
derived from the proofs of location signatures a vehicle holds,
to quantify the reputation and the stake the vehicle has in the
network.
VVMT, which incentivizes V2I data sharing by quantifying
a vehicle’s contributions to improving traffic conditions, is
quite different from vehicle miles travel (VMT), which is
a concept used extensively in transportation planning, such
as travel demand forecasting and dynamic pricing for toll
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 8
Fig. 4: The process of building Proof of Travel by vehicles.
lanes [53]. For example, a vehicle traveling more distance on
a congested road during peak hours will be charged higher
tolling fees because the vehicle is regarded as contributing
to the congestion. In this regard, VMT plays the role of a
“negative” incentive to discourage vehicles from using a road
over a particular time period, while VVMT serves as a positive
incentive to encourage the use of connected roads with V2X
connectivity.
Definition 5.3 Verifiable vehicle miles traveled (VVMT) for
a vehicle, denoted as vi, is defined as a function of all proofs of
location signatures vi has collected since it joined the network,
as given in eq. 1
vvmtTi = f(LST
i , n) (1)
Based on Definition 5.3, we present two equations for deriv-
ing the vehicle’s corresponding reputation scores, including the
vanilla VVMT (eq. 2) and the resilient VVMT (eq. 3) equations.
a) Vanilla VVMT:
vvmtVi =
T∑
t=1
γd(lst−1
i , lsti) (2a)
vvmtVi =
M
1 + e−k(
∑T
t=1 d(lst−1
i ,lsti)−m)
(2b)
In the vanilla VVMT equation in 2, a vehicle’s reputation
score only depends on the physical distance the vehicle has
traveled. The rationale behind this design is that since a vehicle
can only accumulate the whole chain of location signatures
by being in close proximity to every RSU along its path
of movement, we may trust the vehicle by assigning the
reputation score corresponding to its moving distance.
Different functions can be used to realize the vanilla VVMT
for controlling how fast or difficult the vehicle can earn repu-
tation points as it moves. Eq. 2a indicates a linear relationship
between reputation and distance. d(lst−1
i , lsti) denotes the
user-defined distance between two location signatures, such
as euclidean distance or the actual distance vi has traveled.
On the other hand, eq. 2b means that the vehicle’s rep-
utation scores grow exponentially. For the exponential form
in eq. 2b, while M is the scaling factor that determines the
maximum reputation score a vehicle can earn, k and m serve
the role of controlling the difficulty of gaining reputation.
This design rationale is inspired by existing Blockchain-based
cryptocurrencies in which each ”miner” or contributor might
have different difficulty levels when mining blocks to earn
rewards.
b) Resilient VVMT:
vvmtRi = α
T∑
t=1
γd(lst−1
i , lsti) + (1− α)
n
nmax
M
(3a)
vvmtRi = α
M
1 + e−k(
∑T
t=1 d(lst−1
i ,lsti)−m)
+ (1− α)
n
nmax
M
(3b)
A prerequisite for applying the vanilla VVMT equation is
that the vehicle has to successfully collect all the location
signatures from every RSU along its path of movement.
However, this requirement can be difficult to meet due to com-
munication failure or packet loss. To make the POT protocol
more flexible and resilient by accounting for the possibility
of missed location signatures during vehicle movement, we
present the resilient VVMT, as given in eq. 3. Similar to the
vanilla VVMT, the resilient VVMT is realized by both the linear
and logistic versions.
When resilient VVMT is applied, the value of vi’s VVMT
is determined by both the distance vi traveled and the ratio
of the actual location signatures (n in eq. 3) the vehicle has
collected to the total number of RSUs (nmax) along the road
segment. The user-defined parameter α determines the ratio of
contribution to vi’s VVMT from each of the two aspects above.
A case study on the VVMT accumulation in section VII will
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 9
be presented to illustrate the influence of different functions
and parameters on the vehicle’s reputation in the vanilla VVMT
equation.
It is worth mentioning that, when deriving the VVMT for
a vehicle, the TA may also check if all location signatures
included in a chain of proofs indicate a plausible trajectory.
This type of plausibility check can build upon the ”blacklisting
approaches” for detecting V2X misbehavior and anomalous
trajectory [13], [14], [15], [54], which adds another layer of
security defense to the trust management in the V2X ecosys-
tem at the price of higher computation cost. For example,
multiple location signatures owned by a vehicle may indicate
an extremely fast speed impossible to achieve under the current
traffic and road conditions. Also, they may form a strange
trajectory (e.g., taking a zigzag line even if a straight line is
an optimal route), which will reduce the likelihood of previous
proofs being valid.
The rules for verifying proofs should also support fault
tolerance in the case where vi fails to get the location signa-
tures from two adjacent RSUs due to faults or congestion in
communication links, as we did in deriving vehicle reputation
scores earlier. For example, a threshold signature scheme can
be used in authenticating vehicle trajectory [29] such that only
a subset (m) of all RSUs’ signatures (n, m < n) is needed for
determining the legitimacy of location proofs presented by a
vehicle.
With VVMT, engineers can develop reputation-based algo-
rithms for validating vehicle-reported traffic events with high
criticality levels. The next section will devote to the description
of these algorithms and relates them to digital rewards gained
by vehicles as short-term incentives.
V. POT-ENHANCED VOTING GAME FOR V2I VALIDATION
A. Why do we need voting-based methods?
The proposed POT protocol in the last section allows a
vehicle to gain a reputation as the incentive for V2I adoption
in the long run. However, as a person who acts rationally, the
vehicle owner may want to know how much digital rewards
(s)he can get immediately after sharing data through V2I com-
munication. More importantly, some traffic events included
in these V2I data have high criticality levels, such as road
incidents with serious injuries, and often require immediate
emergency responses and medical services [55]. Since these
vehicle-reported data can help the TMC evaluate the severity
and the surrounding environment of the incident site for
effective emergency planning and operation, the accuracy and
the correctness of these data need to be first validated by RSUs
in the edge layer to avoid mistakes in assigning emergency
response resources [56].
Built upon vehicle reputation derived from proof of travel,
we propose a V2I voting game for validating vehicle-reported
traffic events. Specifically, an RSU will verify the authenticity
and the correctness of a given event based on V2I reports
from multiple vehicles near the event site. Any vehicle which
wants to be eligible for participating in the V2I game must
have at least a predetermined level of reputation and thus
accumulate enough proof of travel as vehicles with a higher
score of VVMT will be viewed as more trustworthy (i.e., a
higher reputation score).
The design that uses the reputation indicated by VVMT
of a vehicle to determine whether its event report is valid
can improve the voting algorithms’ tolerance for malicious
vehicles [52]. The reason is that it is extremely difficult for
adversaries in the malicious group to acquire a high value
of VVMT during a short period of time through physical
movement. Even if a malicious vehicle can delegate the
VVMT it has acquired to a colluding node to increase the
weight the latter one has in a voting game, the malicious
coalition as a whole still needs to pay the cost of spatial
movement, making malicious behaviors of reporting falsified
events less attractive from an economic perspective. Section
VI will give a detailed discussion of this dilemma situation
for the malicious group from a game-theoretic perspective.
We present two algorithms (Algorithm 1 and 2) for val-
idating vehicle-reported events in the V2I voting game and
evaluate the running time of the algorithms as there are often
timing constraints for emergency response actions. However,
when V2I-reported data about traffic events are only used
for post-event investigation [34], [35], data accuracy and
correctness, rather than timing constraints, become the highest
priority. In the latter scenario, incident data must be accurate
and consistent such that they can be used by law enforcement
agencies. Depending on which goal the algorithms want to
achieve, engineers can adjust the parameter that controls the
minimum number of eligible votes required for an RSU to
confirm a V2I-reported traffic event (i.e., Nthld in eq. 4).
B. Voting rules
Vote: A vote representing a vehicle’s opinions on
an event at time t is denoted as x<t>
i,k , where i =
{1, 2, ..., n} represents the ID of the vehicle and k =
{incident, workzone, congestion, ...} represents the type of
the reported event. This paper adopts a generic form for each
vote sent by a vehicle and lets x<t>
i,k = {−1, 1}. For example,
xi,k = 1 means that a vehicle has observed and reported the
occurrence of a traffic event that requires immediate responses
by the TMC. When deploying the POT-based voting protocol
in various V2I applications, x<t>
i,k can have more complex
forms or even be a continuous variable. One example is
that the RSU aggregates V2I messages shared by multiple
vehicles in a local area to estimate the starting location of
congestion (SLoC) and travel time (TT) of the work zone
before disseminating the information to the TMC and nearby
vehicles in the same road [57].
Voting rule: Let X be the set of votes an RSU receives
from n vehicles in a local region, a voting rule is defined as
a social choice function [58], [59] Xn → O, which maps
aggregated profiles of vehicle’s opinions Xn to an outcome
in O. The form of an outcome is consistent with that of the
votes an RSU receives. For binary voting, O has a binary form
(i.e.,O = {−1, 1}), indicating that the RSU makes decisions
on whether to disseminate the event to TMC or nearby vehicles
or not. Therefore, O = 1 denotes that the RSU confirms the
occurrence of the event and will forward it to the TMC to
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 10
take action on it, and vice versa. Mathematically, our proposed
voting rule can be described by eq. 4.
O =
1, if
∑Nthld
1
xi,k==1
x<t>
i,k ≥ (2/3) ∗Nthld
−1, otherwise
(4)
Nthld in eq. 4 corresponds to the ”committee size” in
the context of consensus algorithms for distributed network-
ing and represents the minimum number of eligible voters
required in our discussion of V2I-data validation. For the
conventional plurality voting (CPV) that will be presented as
the benchmark algorithm (Algorithm 1), every vote from any
vehicle is regarded eligible, which means that Nthld equals
the total number of votes received from vehicles. On the
other hand, when the POT protocol is used for enhancing
voting algorithms, a vote will be regarded eligible only if
it is sent by a vehicle that has collected enough proof of
travel (i.e., the vehicle’s V VMT greater than a predetermined
threshold V VMTthld). Therefore, under the proposed POT-
enhance plurality voting (PPV), Nthld can be less than the
total number of votes received by the RSU since some votes
without enough travel proof will be disregarded.
A natural way to realize the voting rules given in eq. 4
is by using conventional plurality voting (CPV) [28], [59] in
which every vehicle in the communication range of the RSU
is eligible to share data (i.e., vote), as shown in Algorithm 1.
Alternatively, we can propose POT-enhance plurality voting
(PPV) in which each vehicle’s proof of travel is used to
determine whether votes sent by the vehicle are regarded as
eligible, as shown in Algorithm 2.
Here, we define the set of eligible voters for CPV and PPV
as ICPV and IPPV, respectively. Specifically,
ICPV = {i : Some location-based constraints} (5)
IPPV(V VMTthld) = {i : Some location-based constraints,
V V MTi > V VMTthld} (6)
In both the CPV and PPV algorithms, each vote sent by a
vehicle has equal weight. For the CPV, this rule implies that
the RSU will confirm that an event has occurred in a given
location at a particular time as long as more than two-thirds
of all nearby vehicles attest to it. For the PPV, since the RSU
only recognizes a vote sent by a vehicle with enough proof of
travel, this prerequisite for voting places the adversary group
in a disadvantageous situation as it needs to make extra efforts
to gain travel proof. We will provide formal proof to show that
PPV indeed mitigates adversarial manipulation of votes from
a game-theoretic framework in the next section.
VI. SECURITY ANALYSIS
A. Security of the POT protocol
Since the communication between vehicles and road infras-
tructure in the POT protocol is vulnerable to eavesdropping,
colluding, and insider attacks, we need to evaluate whether
and how POT protocol can defend against different types of
attacks on V2I channels.
Algorithm 1: The conventional plurality voting (CPV)
algorithm [28], [59] for verifying V2I-reported traffic
events
Input: xt
i, Nthld, Nvo, ICPV
Output: Nvo, ICPV
1 initialize: n ← Nvo, H ← ICPV;
2 k ← getEventType(xt
i);
3 if checkEventType(k) == False then
return
4 σvi ← getVehSig(xt
i);
5 if verifyVehSig(σvi ) == False then
return
6 n++;
7 H.add(xt
i);
8 xcoalition ← 0;
for temp in H do
9 xtmp ← getV ote(temp);
10 if xtmp == 1 then
11 xcoalition++
12 if wcoalition >= 2
3 ∗ n and n ≥ Nthld then
13 RSU confirms and report the event to TMC;
14 n = 0, H.clear();
15 else if wcoalition < 2
3 ∗ n and n ≥ Nthld then
16 no consensus formed on the event;
17 n = 0, H.clear();
18 Nvo = n, ICPV ← H;
19 return nvote, ICPV
1) Replay attacks: Similar to other trajectory-based authen-
tication approaches [60], [26], the POT protocol can prevent
the misuse of location signatures intercepted by an adversary
when eavesdropping V2I channels. This is because the public
key of a vehicle attached to the location signature can ensure
that only the vehicle that holds the corresponding private key
can claim the ”ownership” of the location signature and use
it as proof.
2) Proof or trajectory forgery by ”inside” adversaries:
Incorporating cryptography hashing (e.g., sha256) into the
signed data can prevent the forgery of chains of proofs. Since
we have added the hash of the previous location signature into
the contents of the current location signature during stage 2 of
the POT protocol, any changes made to a particular location
signature will also change its hash value, which results in
an inconsistency between the hash of that particular location
signature and the pre-hash value contained in the next location
signature in the chain of proofs. This also means that an
adversary who holds valid vehicle credentials and wants to
forge a valid chain of proofs containing multiple location
signatures must be physically present in each corresponding
RSU. The adversary must also follow a “plausible” trajectory
to gain VVMT as any RSU only accepts a location signature
request if the previous signature attached to it is signed
by another legitimate RSU (legitimacy checks on location
signature in Stage 2), and the trust authority will verify the
plausibility of a vehicle’s claimed trajectory indicated by its
chain of proofs (trajectory plausibility checks in Stage-3).
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 11
Algorithm 2: The proposed POT-enhanced plurality
voting (PPV) algorithm for verifying V2I-reported
traffic events
Input: xt
i, V VMTthld, Nthld, Nvo, IPPV
Output: Nvo, IPPV
1 initialize: n ← Nvo, H ← IPPV;
2 k ← getEventType(xt
i);
3 if checkEventType(k) == False then
return
4 σvi ← getVehSig(xt
i);
5 if verifyVehSig(σvi ) == False then
return
6 PoTvi
← getTravelProof(xt
i);
7 if verifyVehProof(PoTvi ) == False then
return
8 V VMTvi ← getVVMT(xt
i);
9 if V VMTvi < V VMTthld then
return
10 n++;
11 H.add(xt
i);
12 xcoalition ← 0;
for temp in H do
13 xtmp ← getV ote(temp);
14 if xtmp == 1 then
15 xcoalition++
16 if wcoalition >= 2
3 ∗ n and n ≥ Nthld then
17 RSU confirms and report the event to TMC;
18 n = 0, H.clear();
19 else if wcoalition < 2
3 ∗ n and n ≥ Nthld then
20 no consensus formed on the event;
21 n = 0, H.clear();
22 Nvo = n, IPPV ← H;
23 return Nvo, IPPV
It is the cost of ”compulsory” spatial movement for gaining
location signatures that reduces the adversary’s incentive for
being malicious. However, the requirement for spatial move-
ment will not incur extra costs for normal travelers.
3) Private key swapping by colluding nodes: Although
POT does not completely eliminate colluding nodes, it can
diminish the negative effect of misusing location signatures
for the same reasons discussed in proof-forgery attacks. For
example, even if a malicious vehicle node may tunnel the
location signature it collects along with its private key to
another colluding node, the former one must also share a valid
chain of proofs it acquired for the latter node to gain VVMT.
Sharing only a subset of location signatures or modifying
any location signatures will invalidate the whole chain of
proofs. This also means that, from an economic perspective,
the group of colluding nodes as a whole must always ”pay the
cost” incurred by spatial movement. When the cost becomes
greater than the benefit the colluding nodes earn, they lose the
incentive for forging V2I events. In the next section, we will
formally prove this from a game-theoretic perspective.
B. Security of POT-enhanced plurality voting algorithm
Plurality voting game has been studied extensively in the
game theory literature [61], [62], [63], [64], [65]. However,
the plurality voting for verifying V2I-validation in this paper is
different from the canonical voting game setting. First, in this
paper, vehicles that do not vote will not get any reward, while
in the canonical voting game, a participant, though not voting,
can still get a reward if their preferred candidate is elected.
Second, in this paper, we assume vehicles whose votes are in
the minority group will get punishment due to their potential
cheating behavior. Due to these different settings, we cannot
directly quote results from the canonical plurality voting game.
In this paper, we propose a new framework to analyze
the two voting schemes (conventional plurality voting (CPV)
v.s. POT-enhanced plurality voting (PPV)). Results show that,
under the CPV, there is no specific way to eliminate the
Nash Equilibrium (NE) that all vehicles cheat. However,
under PPV, we prove that it is possible to eliminate
this type of Nash Equilibrium (i.e., all vehicles cheat)
by reasonably setting V VMTthld and Nthld. The specific
analysis is shown below.
We make the following assumption about the driver’s utility.
The utility (payoff) matrix of a vehicle i (i.e., ui(xi, x−i)) is
shown in Table III. R is the reward given to voted vehicles
TABLE III: Payoff matrix of vehicle i (i.e., ui(xi, x−i))
Scenario xi = 1 xi = −1 xi = 0
Nvo ≥ Nthld and Majority1 vote xi = 1 R− c −P − c− V i 0
Nvo ≥ Nthld and Majority vote xi = −1 −P − c R− c− V i 0
Nvo ≥ Nthld and No majority consensus2 −c −c− V i 0
Nvo < Nthld −c −c− V i 0
1: Majority means more than 2
3
of all voted vehicles.
2: No majority consensus means no voting group has more than 2
3
voters.
whose votes are in the majority group (i.e., more than 2
3 ).
P is the punishment for cheating (i.e., voting in the minority
group). c is a fixed cost of voting, which accounts for the time
and inconvenience of submitting responses to the system. xi =
1,−1, 0 represents the vehicle i’s reporting truth, cheating, and
not voting actions, respectively. Nvo is the total number of
voted vehicles and Nthld is the threshold of number of voted
vehicles to result in a valid outcome. We assume each vehicle i
has an integrity cost Vi if they choose to cheat (i.e., xi = −1).
Note that Vi < 0 indicates malicious drivers who get positive
payoff if cheating. We assume that R > c, otherwise no one
will choose to vote.
We consider a complete knowledge voting game where Vi
(∀i ∈ ICPV or IPPV) is a common knowledge and known by
everyone1. We define a driver i as a “super-integrity driver”
(SID) if Vi > R − c, which means for these drivers, their
integrity cost is so high that they are not willing to win the
vote by cheating. Define the number of SIDs in a group of
driver I as
NSID(I) =
∑
i∈I
1[Vi > R− c] (7)
1It is also possible to consider a incomplete knowledge Bayesian game with
Vi as random variables. We leave this as a future study
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 12
Assumption VI.1. In general, drivers with high V VMTi
are more likely to be a SID. Mathematically, the increase
in V VMTthld will increase the proportion of SIDs in
IPPV(V VMTthld) (denoted as pSID), i.e.,
V VMTthld ↑ ⇒ pSID :=
NSID(IPPV(V VMTthld))
|IPPV(V VMTthld)|
↑ (8)
Based on Assumption VI.1 (we justify this assumption
in Proposition 2 included in the appendix), we have the
following main Proposition for the analysis of NE.
Proposition 1. In a plurality voting game (both CPV and
PPV) with eligible voter set I, all voting vehicles choosing to
cheat (xi = −1 for all i choosing to vote) is NOT a pure NE
if and only if pSID > |I|−Nthld
|I| .
Proof. Sufficient condition: if pSID > |I|−Nthld
|I| , all voting
vehicles choosing to cheat is not a pure NE.
Notice that for all SIDs, cheating (i.e., xi = −1) is a weakly
dominated strategy (by xi = 0). Hence, we can eliminate xi =
−1 for all SIDs. As we assume the proportion of SIDs is
greater than |I|−Nthld
|I| . The number of remaining drivers who
may cheat is at most Nthld−1. According to the payoff matrix
(Table III), even if all these remaining drivers choose to cheat,
the number of voters are less than Nthld, which will not result
in an outcome of O = −1. Thus, their payoff will be −c−Vi.
And anyone can switch to xi = 0 to be better-off (with payoff
equal to 0). Therefore, all voting vehicles choosing to cheat is
not a pure NE. Under this scenario, the only pure NEs are 1) all
eligible vehicles choose to report truth (i.e., xi = 1, ∀i ∈ I)
with payoff R− c. 2) all eligible vehicles choose to not vote
(with payoff 0)2.
Necessary condition: if pSID ≤ |I|−Nthld
|I| , all voting
vehicles choosing to cheat is a pure NE.
The proof is similar, since now the number of non-SID
drivers is at least Nthld. If all of them choose to cheat,
everyone would has a positive payoff of R − c − Vi. And
no one has incentive to switch to xi = 1 (payoff −P − c) or
xi = 0 (payoff 0). Under this scenario, there are three possible
pure NE. The first two are the same as above. And the third
pure NE is that all SIDs choose not to vote while all non-SIDs
choose to cheat.
In the CPV, there is no way to change pSID from the
operator side. Hence, we cannot eliminate the NE that results
in a cheating outcome. However, in the PPV, since we assume
pSID increases with the increase in V VMTthld, we can
change V VMTthld to increase the proportion of SIDs in the
eligible voters and eliminate the cheating-outcome NE, which
proves the advantage of PPV.
However, in PPV, it is also essential to balance to number
of eligible voters and V VMTthld. If V VMTthld is too high,
there will be only a small number of eligible voters, then
Assumption VI.1 may not hold given large variance in a small
population (i.e., it is possible that some attackers are included
into this small group of eligible voters).
2We assume Nthld > 1, so anyone switch to vote will not change the
outcome
TABLE IV: PARAMETERS SETTINGS IN THE SIMULA-
TION
Parameters Settings
Simulation time 1000 seconds
Max number of vehicles 2000
Speed of vehicles 60 mph (max)
Traffic flow 600,1200,2500,3600
Traffic simulator SUMO 1.2.0
Network simulator Simple Network Simulator (SNS)
Communication range of OBU/RSU 500 meters
Hash algorithm used by RSU SHA-256
VII. EXPERIMENTS AND EVALUATION
To evaluate the performance of the proposed POT protocol
and the extended V2I voting algorithms, we implement the
POT protocol and the voting algorithm in the V2X Simulation
Runtime Infrastructure (VSimRTI) [66] and conduct vehicular
simulations in a two-lane highway (Interstate highway I-80
within Wyoming).
The simulation is conducted in a desktop with Intel(R)
Core(TM) i7-6850K processor at 3.6GHz, 32GB RAM mem-
ory, and (X64)Windows 10 operating system. The parameter
settings for the simulation are given in Table IV.
We are interested in the security and performance of the
POT-enhanced voting algorithms (PPV Algorithm 2) by using
Plurality-voting (CPV Algorithm 1) as the benchmark. For
the security metric, the proportion of invalid events is used
to evaluate to what extent each type of voting algorithm is
vulnerable to malicious reports. For the performance metric,
the throughput by the RSU running voting algorithms with
respect to the number of correct events per minute is used for
the evaluation.
Additionally, we also consider the time it takes for the
RSU to run the voting algorithms to confirm an event in each
round (i.e., latency), which can be influenced by the minimum
number of votes required and the local traffic density, as
suggested by the simulation results.
When evaluating the PPV algorithm, we take into account
the influence of the proportion of SIDs (pSID) on algorithm
security and performance by varying the threshold of voting
V VMTthld. Therefore, all simulation results include scenarios
when CPV is adopted and PPV with pSID being equal to 30%,
50%, and 70%.
All the experiments are conducted under different traffic
settings where the traffic density is in the range between 35
and 45 vehicles per mile, which corresponds to the normal
flow conditions in which traffic demands are approaching or
equal to roadway capacities in U.S. roadways [67].
A. The influence of VVMT designs on vehicle reputation
A key design aspect of the proposed POT protocol is the
influence of different implementations of VVMT, namely eq. 2
and 3 on vehicle reputation. We present a case study on the
proof-of-travel collection in a real-world interstate corridor in
Southern Wyoming, USA. According to the U.S. Department
of Transportation (DOT), interstate 80 (I-80) was deployed
with 75 RSUs along a 400-mile road segment [68]. Connected
vehicles that are installed with onboard V2X units can share
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 13
(a) Vanilla VVMT (b) Resilient VMT in linear form
(c) Resilient VVMT in logistic form:k=0.025,m=200 (d) Resilient VVMT in logistic form:k=0.05,m=300
Fig. 5: Vehicle reputation under different VVMT equations.
with RSUs information regarding road and weather conditions
captured by on-vehicle sensors.
When the vanilla VVMT (eq. 2) is adopted, a vehicle gains
a reputation that corresponds to the physical distance, as
shown in Fig. 5a. Rather than having the vehicle accumulate
its reputation with linear growth as it travels (orange bar
in Fig. 5a), we may modify parameters (k and m) in the
logistic function form in eq. 2b to postpone the time the
vehicle starts to gain reputation or the difficulty, as shown
in the orange and grey bars in Fig. 5a. In this case, drivers
who join the V2X ecosystems later may find it more difficult
to gain reputation values as rewards, which encourages the
early adoption of V2X technologies. As mentioned earlier,
this scenario is inspired by the incentive designs in existing
Blockchain-based cryptocurrencies. For example, similar to
the dynamic mining difficulty, a mechanism that constantly
changes parameters in Bitcoin or Ethereum to control the
average time to mine a block, we can use different functions
or parameters in the vanilla VVMT equation to control how
difficult or fast each vehicle can gain reputation, as shown in
different curves for reputation growth in Fig. 5a.
While the vanilla VVMT requires a vehicle to collect every
location signature from all the RSUs it meets when traveling,
the resilient VVMT (eq. 3) provides fault tolerance by allowing
the vehicle to miss some RSUs along the path of its movement.
When eq. 3 is adopted, both the distance (the 1st term) and
the ratio of the actual number of location signatures to the
total number of RSUs (the 2nd term) will contribute to the
final scores of vehicle reputation, as shown in Fig. 5b, 5c,
and 5d. The horizontal axis in these three figures represents
the weights (i.e., α in eq. 3) of the first and the second term.
The trend of reputation growth shown in Fig. 5b is similar
to Fig. 5a (blue columns) in which vehicle reputation scores
increase steadily regardless of the contributions made by the
first and the second terms in eq. 3a. The result implies a lack
of flexibility in using the linear versions to implement both
the vanilla VVMT (eq. 2a) and the resilient VVMT (eq. 3a)
equations.
On the other hand, the logistic versions of both the vanilla
and resilient VVMT equations are much more flexible and
can support the real-time adjustment of the difficulty level for
vehicles to gain a reputation. For the logistic versions (eq. 2b
and eq. 3b), we can increase the values of parameters k and
m to make it more difficult to increase VVMT. For example,
when k=0.025 and m=200, a vehicle that has collected 45
locations signatures along its path of movement (assuming
there are 75 roadside units in total) may earn 250 reputation
scores or more, as shown in Fig. 5c (the middle columns with
yellow and grey colors). On the other hand, when k=0.05 and
m=300, the reputation score earned by a vehicle with the same
number of location signatures (i.e., 45) has only an average
value of 100, while reaching the minimum score of 50, as
shown in Fig. 5d.
The results presented earlier are aligned with our design
rationales regarding the role of k and m in the proposed Proof-
of-Travel protocol. Similar to the existing Blockchain-based
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 14
cryptocurrencies in which a system-defined target value (e.g.,
256-bit number) governs the difficulty of successful “mining”,
in the Proof of Travel protocol, we would also like to have
an adaptive mechanism to adjust how difficult vehicles earn
reputation at different stages of V2X deployment.
B. The security of voting algorithms
The security metric of the proportion of invalid events is
derived by comparing the number of times when the RSU
confirms false events or fails to report a true event that actually
occurred (because no consensus is formed among vehicles
based on a given voting rule) against the number of times
when the RSU confirms and disseminates correct events. We
refer to the former two types of events as ”invalid events”
because each of them represents an undesired situation we are
trying to avoid: while confirming and disseminating a false
traffic event means that the traffic management center will
mistakenly allocate valuable resources, such as first responders
or emergency medical services, failing to confirm a true event
can result in the loss of assets or life in the event of man-made
or natural disaster.
The proportion of invalid events derived can then be used
to evaluate the extent to which CPV or PPV is vulnerable
to malicious reports, as shown in Fig 6. The horizontal axis
represents the proportion of the malicious when the vehicular
network starts to operate. We compare the security perfor-
mance between the CPV and PPV by evaluating the proportion
that the RSU failed to confirm correct events. Also, we adjust
the number of votes and voting threshold in PPV to get a better
understanding of PPV’s performance under different parameter
settings. The results suggest that PPV is less vulnerable to
malicious votes than CPV even with the existence of a higher
percentage of malicious vehicles when the network starts to
operate. The proportion of invalid events by CPV (denoted by
blue shaded curves in Fig 6) increases to more than 0.8 as
the percentage of malicious vehicles increases from 10% to
50%, as shown in Fig 6a, 6b, 6c, and 6d. However, as long
as we can adjust the voting threshold V VMTthld in the PPV
algorithm for increasing the proportion of SIDs to between
(based on Assumption VI.1 and Proposition 2), we can reduce
the chance of RSU’s failures in confirming correct events to
the range between 30% and 60% with a small number of votes
required Nthld.
C. The tradeoff between event criticality and voting delay
For certain V2I-enabled crowdsensing applications that are
safety-critical, it is desirable for the proposed voting algo-
rithms to achieve a higher percentage of confirming correct
events. This can be realized by increasing the number of
votes required Nthld or the voting threshold V VMTthld in
PPV. However, these efforts will result in a delay in event
confirmation time based on our experiments. Therefore, it is
in the interest of security engineers to evaluate this tradeoff
situation between security with respect to ensuring correct
decisions on events and timing regarding making decisions
on whether to respond to a vehicle-reported traffic event in
time.
We present a tradeoff graph for choosing parameter values
to balance the two conflicting needs, as shown in Fig. 7.
When the traffic density is small (e.g., <20 vehicles per mile),
it is unwise to set a large number of required votes Nthld
(e.g. >10), which will result in an extremely high delay (red
color cells in Fig. 7) in confirming an event. For example,
setting Nthld to 12 in PPV can lead to a confirmation delay
of more than one minute. While the delay time is tolerable
for the weather and road services discussed early, it might be
unacceptable when V2I-enabled crowdsensing is used during
the emergency evacuation. The same design rationale can be
applied to the local sensing and dynamic map services. For
building HD maps, we may set a high value for Nthld to
ensure the correctness of unsynchronized sensing data shared
by different vehicles.
The same tradeoff exists between the parameter of the
voting threshold V VMTthld and the security of the voting
game. In most of the simulation runs of our experiments, we
observe around 20% reduction in event-confirmation time by
lowering the voting threshold V VMTthld to make 10% extra
vehicles eligible to vote. However, this also means that the
PPV algorithm will have less chance of confirming correct
events, as the results shown in the previous section. We
recommend that each tradeoff decision in choosing parameters
in PPV be driven by the criticality (i.e., how much tolerance
we have regarding event correctness) and timing constraints
(how quickly the event needs to be confirmed and routed) for
the specific crowdsensing application.
VIII. DESIGN CONSIDERATIONS FOR THE REAL-WORLD
DEPLOYMENT OF THE POT PROTOCOL
A. Security credential management
To adopt and implement the POT protocol in the real
world, we need to consider the design opportunities posed
by credential management systems for V2X communication
and the constraints by the distribution of infrastructure com-
ponents (e.g., RSUs) in the target region and country for V2X
deployment.
The security credential management system (SCMS) devel-
oped for connected vehicles in the U.S. [69], [70], for example,
provides opportunities for POT applications. Since one of the
goal of the SCMS is to identify and revoke certificates assigned
to compromised vehicles that broadcast malicious events, we
can explore the role of the POT protocol in this revocation
process. Specifically, it is proposed in [69] that the SCMS uses
malicious reports sent by onboard devices installed on vehicles
to determine whether to revoke the certificate assigned to a
particular vehicle. In this case, a vehicle’s reputation attested
by its proof of travel can serve as the root of trust in its
malicious reports in the early stage of SCMS deployment.
Additionally, the idea of providing reputational rewards to
vehicles that share traffic event data can be extended and
applied to the SCMS for incentivizing each connected vehicle
to share malicious behaviors they detected to infrastructure.
Once the reputational points a vehicle owns are recognized
and stored on SCMS infrastructure, the records must be
protected from malicious tampering or unauthorized access.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 15
(a) The required minimum number of votes Nthld = 5 (b) The required minimum number of votes Nthld = 7
(c) The required minimum number of votes Nthld = 10 (d) The required minimum number of votes Nthld = 12
Fig. 6: Security vulnerabilities to malicious vehicles: CPV vs. PPV.
Fig. 7: Event confirmation time (seconds).
In this regard, blockchain technology is an ideal candidate for
protecting these chains of “travel proof” or reputation scores,
as discussed in [21], [23], [25], [22].
Among design constraints for implementing the proposed
POT protocol in the real world, the most challenging one
faced by engineers might be to decide the maximum length
of the chain of proofs a vehicle should store on board. For
the convenience of identity verification, a vehicle might be
required by infrastructure to keep a minimum number of
location signatures on board and attach them to V2I messages
for identity verification. For example, proofs of locations have
been used to detect Sybil nodes in vehicular networks [27].
Previous work shows that each vehicle must be required to ac-
quire at least 15 location signatures from RSUs along its path
of movement if we want to achieve 98% accuracy in detecting
Sybil nodes [60]. However, this security guarantee comes at
a price: maintaining a long chain of location signatures will
increase the memory consumption by each vehicle and incur
extra communication overhead.
B. Privacy
While deploying the POT protocol, the privacy of vehicle
owners, especially location privacy, needs to be protected
during the proof-collection process. In particular, previous
work uses threshold ring signatures to achieve conditional
privacy in authenticating V2I messages [22], [24]. Another
promising technique is zero-knowledge proof [71], which al-
lows mutual authentication between vehicles without revealing
their identities.
C. The influence by the criticality of V2I data
Although this paper focuses on rewarding vehicles with
reputational scores based on travel proof, the protocol allowing
each vehicle to gain reputation through V2I data sharing
can be extended to consider data with different criticality
levels. The idea is to reward a vehicle with extra points in
addition to reputational points derived from travel proof if the
sensing data the vehicle shared has high criticality levels (e.g.,
high-criticality such as incident reports vs. medium-criticality
weather conditions). Specifically, the critical level of a given
type of V2I data can be influenced by technological, policy,
and business factors.
• First, from the perspective of the data receiver, the timing
and the location of the vehicle-reported event may decide
how critical it is. For example, for a vehicle receiver, a
traffic event a few miles away will have less influence on
its maneuvers than an event that occurs within the same
road segment. Therefore, V2I data indicates an event
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 16
closer to the receiver might be regarded by the receiver
as more ”critical.”
• Second, a given standardization body might assign higher
priority to certain types of events. For example, when it
comes to dedicated-short range communication (DSRC),
the U.S. Federal Communication Commission (FCC)
has previously reserved dedicated channels for V2X
applications involving incident mitigation and public
safety while assigning a service channel for the data
exchange about convenience and long-distance V2X ap-
plications [32]. Although this paper does not make
assumptions about the physical links to realize V2X
communication (e.g., DSRC vs. Cellular-V2X), security
engineers who want to implement the POT protocol in
intelligent transportation applications should be aware of
the potential influence of standardization efforts in their
region.
• Third, in addition to technological and policy factors, the
criticality of a given type of V2X data can be affected by
how each stakeholder in the V2X ecosystem valuates the
use cases enabled by the data type. For example, while
emergency responders or individual drivers might prior-
itize the V2I data about incident location and severity,
a commercial freight company might be more interested
in V2I information about route guidance, road, or even
weather conditions.
D. Fairness in the voting game: plurality vs. weighted voting
The proposed PPV algorithm considers all vehicles that are
eligible to vote to have equal weights in voting. The main
purpose is to reduce the influence of ”high-reputation” vehicles
that are compromised by adversaries on voting results. For
example, taxis and trucks can gain higher VVMT values due
to long hours of driving per day. Also, special vehicles, such
as police cars, fire trucks, or ambulances might be assigned
with high reputation than private passenger vehicles.
Alternatively, we may adopt weighted voting to achieve
fairness in voting by giving high-reputation vehicles a higher
stake in the voting. Although studies show that weighted
voting has the potential to improve algorithm efficiency and
fairness, it is more vulnerable to adversarial manipulation
than plurality (i.e., equal weight) voting when vehicles with
high VVMT are compromised by adversaries [72], [59]. This
becomes possible when special vehicles, such as police cars
with V2X connectivity, become the target of attacks [73]. Our
future work will explore how to achieve the tradeoff between
fairness and security for weighted voting algorithms.
E. A smooth transition from low to high V2X penetration
While the security solutions presented in this paper target
more on the transitional period, the trust management mecha-
nisms also need to be adapted to evolving usage scenarios as
V2X technologies mature. We suggest that security engineers
take into account the following aspects when designing trust-
based security schemes for future V2X markets with high
maturity levels.
Regarding the maturity level of V2X, we envision that it
can be characterized by the level of penetration rate (or the
number of users), the number and types of applications that
V2X supports, and the geographical regions covered by V2X
communication. Therefore, we suggest that trust management
and data validation also evolve along with these three factors.
First, regarding the V2X penetration rate and the number
of users, we envision that a large number of vehicles built by
different original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) will be
pre-installed with V2X modules. This differs from current sit-
uations where a lot of traditional vehicle models are integrated
with aftermarket V2X devices when individual vehicle owners
decide to participate in V2X pilot projects led by public
transportation agencies or a company opt-in testing V2X
technologies. Therefore, a lot of improvements can be made
in the future in the areas of managing and distributing vehicle
V2X credentials. This calls for more transparency in the supply
chain of connected vehicles, especially during the registration,
distribution, and “recycling” of V2X credentials. All of these
solutions require that OEMs, wireless communication service
providers, and public transportation agencies work closely and
establish a connected-vehicle security-sharing sharing platform
in which information about vehicles misbehaviors, the status
of vehicle credentials, and even the trust or reputation scores
proposed and discussed in this paper can be accessed in a
secure and privacy-preserved manner.
Second, as the number and types of V2X applications
increase, there will be various types of V2X data modalities
to which we can get access. For example, With V2X in-
frastructure, which provides large bandwidth and low latency,
multiple vehicles can share high-dimensional raw sensing data
(e.g., point cloud) collectively in real-time. Although this paper
focuses on single-modality location-based data, which contain
basic information about vehicles and traffic, there can be
multimodal data, such as 2D images, point cloud, or audio,
shared through V2X channels. While providing more detailed
information about traffic participants and environmental con-
ditions, such new data modalities also call for new methods
for trust establishment and data validation.
Third, while solutions discussed in this paper can work at
the regional or state level, we envision there will be a need for
trust authorities that can work across the boundaries between
states, regions, or even countries. Although researchers have
considered the use of hierarchical trust authorities for manag-
ing certificates and trust information for vehicles operating in
different regions, it can be challenging to deal with regions
with limited wireless coverage or even rural areas. More work
needs to be done regarding ensuring trust and preventing V2X
malicious behaviors in these corner cases.
IX. CONCLUSION
This paper proposes a V2I communication protocol, titled
Proof of Travel, to determine each connected vehicle’s repu-
tation by verifying its spatial movement with cryptography
methods. Based on the gained proof of each vehicle, we
proposed a PPV algorithm to enhance previous plurality vot-
ing algorithms (e.g., CPV) for validating V2I-reported traffic
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 17
events. By using a game-theoretic framework, we also prove
that, when PPV is adopted, all vehicles choosing to cheat is not
a pure Nash equilibrium. The reason is that rational adversaries
governed by profit-seeking behaviors will lose interest in
gaining proof of travel for launching attacks if the extra cost
incurred by proof of travel exceeds the adversarial reward.
Results from simulation experiments also suggest that the
PPV algorithm can tolerate a higher proportion of malicious
vehicles and generate higher throughput than the benchmark
CPV algorithm. Here, we focus on the adversaries who are
”rational” and lose interest in gaining proof for launching
attacks. Future work will tackle the type of adversaries with
”irrational” behavior and unlimited resources.
APPENDIX
Proposition 2. Under the assumption that drivers are rational
in an economic sense, i.e., those whose rewards in voting
are bounded by a value are trying to maximize their payoffs,
increasing V VMTthld can result in higher proportion of SIDs
in the eligible voter group. In other words, a vehicle i with
higher V VMTi is more likely to be owned by a normal rather
than a malicious driver.
Proof. Consider the scenario where vehicle i is owned by a
normal driver and vehicle j owned by a malicious driver, we
then have the cost of travel per VVMT by vehiclei less than
the cost by vehicle j, i.e., Cvvmt
i < Cvvmt
j . The reason is that a
normal driver does not have to take the same amount of burden
a malicious driver takes to acquire VVMT. In addition to
energy consumption for traveling, the malicious driver, whose
only goal is to compromise the vehicular network, has to take
extra efforts to get access to valid V2X credentials stored in
compromised vehicles, while a vehicle driven by the normal
driver will naturally move from its origin to destination.
For vehicle i and j, each one must have a positive payoff
for having the incentive to participate in voting, which is given
in eq. 9 and 10.
Ui = Rnorm − Cvvmt
i ∗ V VMTi (9)
Uj = Radv − Cvvmt
j ∗ V VMTj (10)
It should be addressed that the notations that we used here to
represent vehicle payoffs (Ui, Uj),reward (Rnorm, Radv), and
cost per verifiable miles of travel (Cvvmt
i , Cvvmt
j ) are different
from those used in the security analysis of the voting games
(Section VI-B) in the sense that they refer to different phases
of travel, as shown in Fig. 3. The security analysis presented
in section VI-B mainly focuses on actions by each player
who has already made efforts to gain enough VVMT and is
thus eligible to vote (right of Fig. 3). Here, we are interested
in understanding how increasing or decreasing V VMTthld
can influence the decision-making process by each vehicle
before the voting actually occurs (left of Fig. 3): is it worth
traveling certain miles while following the POT protocol to
gain reputation if ”my” only goal is to send fake V2I messages
to compromise the network services? The hope is that by
increasing the threshold V VMTthld of voting eligibility, fewer
malicious vehicles which originally just wanted to misbehave
will continue while we end up with more SID vehicles left.
For vehicle i, without loss of generality, we assume that
its accumulated VVMT is drawn from a uniform distribution
V VMTi ∼ U(0,M), where M denotes the maximum VVMT
a vehicle may acquire. Since only the vehicles that have
V VMTi > V VMTthld are eligible to participate in voting
and thus earn rewards, the expected payoff for vehicle i can
be denoted by eq. 11.
E[Ui] =
∫ M
V VMTthld
(Rnorm − Cvvmt
i ∗ V VMTi)
1
M − V V TMthld
d(V VMTi)
= Rnorm
− Cvvmt
i
2(M − V VMTthld)
(M2 − V VMT 2
thld)
= Rnorm −
Cvvmt
i
2
(M + V VMTthld) (11)
Following the same procedure, the expected payoff for
malicious vehicle j can be derived and is given in eq. 12.
E[Uj ] = Radv −
Cvvmt
j
2
(M + V VMTthld) (12)
Based on the values of Rnorm and Radv , the impact of
increasing the voting threshold V VMTthld on the likelihood
that each type of vehicle will choose to opt in or out of the
voting game can be classified into three scenarios, as shown
in Fig. 8.
Rnorm ≥ Radv: a normal vehicle always have a stronger
incentive to opt-in than its malicious counterpart regardless of
the value of V VMTthld, as shown in Fig. 8a.
Rnorm < Radv: a normal vehicle will have a stronger
incentive to opt-in than its malicious counterpart as long as
the voting threshold V VMTthold is greater than a certain
value, denoted as V VMTE
thld, as shown in eq. 13. Although
the payoff by the malicious vehicle is higher than the normal
one when V VMTthld is small, the former drops at a faster
rate as V VMTthld increases. This is understandable as the
cost per VVMT for the malicious party is higher. V VMTE
thld
can be derived by letting E[Ui] = E[Uj ], the critical point
when their payoffs become the same.
V VMTE
thld =
2(Radv −Rnorm)
Cj
vvmt − Ci
vvmt
−M (13)
Although a malicious vehicle can gain more rewards than
a normal vehicle, the gained rewards are of the same order
of magnitude for both parties. By letting V VMTthld >
V VMTE
thld, we have a better chance of filtering out more
malicious vehicles than normal vehicles, as shown in Fig 8b.
Rnorm ≪ Radv: a malicious vehicle always have more
incentives than its normal counterpart to opt-in regardless of
the value of V VMTthld. Although this exceptional situation
contradicts the assumption that this paper makes on rational
driver behaviors (i.e., bounded rewards and resources), it can
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 18
(a) Rnorm ≥ Radv (b) Rnorm < Radv (c) Rnorm << Radv
Fig. 8: The changes in the expected payoffs of normal and malicious vehicles.
still occur in rare cases if a malicious vehicle has unbounded
resources and rewards to opt in, as shown in Fig. 8c. For
example, an international terrorist group has identified the
vehicular network in a given country as critical infrastructure
and makes every effort to compromise it. We will tackle this
type of malicious driver with unlimited adversarial reward in
our future work.
To summarize, as long as drivers are rational and aim to
maximize their payoffs, we can filter out more malicious
vehicles than normal vehicles by setting V VMTthld to a
relatively high but reasonable value.
REFERENCES
[1] S. Johnson, V. Blue, S. Novosad, J. JonMichael, D. Miller, M. Wacht,
J. Brown, S. Reich, G. Allegretto, and T. H. E. Authority, “Connected
vehicle pilot deployment program phase i: comprehensive pilot deploy-
ment plan: Tampa hillsborough expressway authority (thea),” Tampa
Hillsborough Expressway Authority, Tech. Rep., 2016.
[2] U. D. of Transportation. (2019) Emergency communications and
evacuation information. [Online]. Available: https://www.cvp.nyc/
emergency-communications-and-evacuation-information
[3] T. S. A. Group. (2020) Cv/av needs specific to emergency response white
paper. [Online]. Available: https://mva.maryland.gov/safety/Documents/
CV-and-AV-Needs-Specific-to-Emergency-Response-White-Paper-Final.
pdf
[4] F. Kitchener, R. Young, M. Ahmed, G. Yang, S. Gaweesh, T. English,
V. Garcia, A. Ragan, N. U. Serulle, D. Gopalakrishna et al., “Connected
vehicle pilot deployment program: Phase 2 final system performance
report, baseline conditions–wydot cv pilot,” United States. Dept. of
Transportation, Tech. Rep., 2018.
[5] M. Chowdhury, M. Rahman, A. Rayamajhi, S. M. Khan, M. Islam,
Z. Khan, and J. Martin, “Lessons learned from the real-world deploy-
ment of a connected vehicle testbed,” Transportation Research Record,
vol. 2672, no. 22, pp. 10–23, 2018.
[6] T. S. A. Group. (2019) Advanced automatic collision notification
(aacn). [Online]. Available: http://www.tsag-its.org/wp-content/uploads/
2019/05/AACN-Whitepaper-Final.pdf
[7] A. W. Obenauf, R. R. Souleyrette, R. M. Kluger, and A. Pratelli, “Impact
of self-driving and connected vehicles on emergency response: The case
of the usa and implications for italy,” WIT Transactions on The Built
Environment, vol. 189, pp. 101–112, 2019.
[8] K. Rostamzadeh, H. Nicanfar, N. Torabi, S. Gopalakrishnan, and V. C.
Leung, “A context-aware trust-based information dissemination frame-
work for vehicular networks,” IEEE Internet of Things journal, vol. 2,
no. 2, pp. 121–132, 2015.
[9] Y. Feng, S. Huang, Q. A. Chen, H. X. Liu, and Z. M. Mao, “Vulner-
ability of traffic control system under cyberattacks with falsified data,”
Transportation research record, vol. 2672, no. 1, pp. 1–11, 2018.
[10] M. Islam, M. Chowdhury, H. Li, and H. Hu, “Cybersecurity attacks in
vehicle-to-infrastructure applications and their prevention,” Transporta-
tion research record, vol. 2672, no. 19, pp. 66–78, 2018.
[11] D. Suo, J. Moore, M. Boesch, K. Post, and S. E. Sarma, “Location-
based schemes for mitigating cyber threats on connected and automated
vehicles: A survey and design framework,” IEEE Transactions on
Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2020.
[12] S. So, P. Sharma, and J. Petit, “Integrating plausibility checks and
machine learning for misbehavior detection in vanet,” in 2018 17th
IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications
(ICMLA). IEEE, 2018, pp. 564–571.
[13] R. W. van der Heijden, S. Dietzel, T. Leinmüller, and F. Kargl, “Survey
on misbehavior detection in cooperative intelligent transportation sys-
tems,” IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 1, pp.
779–811, 2018.
[14] S. E. Huang, Y. Feng, and H. X. Liu, “A data-driven method for falsified
vehicle trajectory identification by anomaly detection,” Transportation
research part C: emerging technologies, vol. 128, p. 103196, 2021.
[15] A. Belhadi, Y. Djenouri, J. C.-W. Lin, and A. Cano, “Trajectory outlier
detection: Algorithms, taxonomies, evaluation, and open challenges,”
ACM Transactions on Management Information Systems (TMIS), vol. 11,
no. 3, pp. 1–29, 2020.
[16] J. Kamel, M. R. Ansari, J. Petit, A. Kaiser, I. B. Jemaa, and P. Urien,
“Simulation framework for misbehavior detection in vehicular net-
works,” IEEE transactions on vehicular technology, vol. 69, no. 6, pp.
6631–6643, 2020.
[17] I. Mahmoudi, J. Kamel, I. Ben-Jemaa, A. Kaiser, and P. Urien, “Towards
a reliable machine learning-based global misbehavior detection in c–its:
Model evaluation approach,” in Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks for Smart
Cities. Springer, 2020, pp. 73–86.
[18] A. Alnasser, H. Sun, and J. Jiang, “Recommendation-based trust model
for vehicle-to-everything (v2x),” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 440–450, 2019.
[19] D. Suo and S. E. Sarma, “Proof-of-travel: A protocol for trustworthy
v2i communication and incentive designs,” in 2020 IEEE Vehicular
Networking Conference (VNC). IEEE, 2020, pp. 1–4.
[20] T. H. E. Authority. (2018) Participants of tampa hillsborough
expressway authority connected vehicle pilot. [Online]. Available:
https://theacvprogram.com/current-participant/
[21] H. Liu, Y. Zhang, and T. Yang, “Blockchain-enabled security in electric
vehicles cloud and edge computing,” IEEE Network, vol. 32, no. 3, pp.
78–83, 2018.
[22] X. Liu, H. Huang, F. Xiao, and Z. Ma, “A blockchain-based trust
management with conditional privacy-preserving announcement scheme
for vanets,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 4101–
4112, 2019.
[23] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, D. Ye, D. I. Kim, and J. Zhao, “Toward
secure blockchain-enabled internet of vehicles: Optimizing consensus
management using reputation and contract theory,” IEEE Transactions
on Vehicular Technology, vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 2906–2920, 2019.
[24] L. Li, J. Liu, L. Cheng, S. Qiu, W. Wang, X. Zhang, and Z. Zhang,
“Creditcoin: A privacy-preserving blockchain-based incentive announce-
ment network for communications of smart vehicles,” IEEE Transactions
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2204–2220,
2018.
[25] Z. Yang, K. Yang, L. Lei, K. Zheng, and V. C. Leung, “Blockchain-based
decentralized trust management in vehicular networks,” IEEE Internet
of Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 1495–1505, 2018.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 19
[26] S. Chang, Y. Qi, H. Zhu, J. Zhao, and X. Shen, “Footprint: detecting
sybil attacks in urban vehicular networks,” IEEE Transactions on
Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 23, no. 6, pp. 1103–1114, 2011.
[27] S. Park, B. Aslam, D. Turgut, and C. C. Zou, “Defense against sybil
attack in the initial deployment stage of vehicular ad hoc network based
on roadside unit support,” Security and Communication Networks, vol. 6,
no. 4, pp. 523–538, 2013.
[28] H. Liu, C.-W. Lin, E. Kang, S. Shiraishi, and D. M. Blough, “A
byzantine-tolerant distributed consensus algorithm for connected vehi-
cles using proof-of-eligibility,” in Proceedings of the 22nd International
ACM Conference on Modeling, Analysis and Simulation of Wireless and
Mobile Systems, 2019, pp. 225–234.
[29] M. Baza, M. Nabil, M. M. E. A. Mahmoud, N. Bewermeier, K. Fidan,
W. Alasmary, and M. Abdallah, “Detecting sybil attacks using proofs
of work and location in vanets,” IEEE Transactions on Dependable and
Secure Computing, 2020.
[30] G. Falco and J. E. Siegel, “A distributedblack box’audit trail design
specification for connected and automated vehicle data and software
assurance,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2002.02780, 2020.
[31] K. H. Chan, M. Pasco, and B. H. Cheng, “Towards a blockchain
framework for autonomous vehicle system integrity,” SAE International
Journal of Transportation Cybersecurity and Privacy, vol. 4, no. 11-04-
01-0002, pp. 19–38, 2021.
[32] T. Zhang and L. Delgrossi, Vehicle safety communications: protocols,
security, and privacy. John Wiley & Sons, 2012, vol. 103.
[33] N. K. Chaubey and D. Yadav, “A taxonomy of sybil attacks in vehicular
ad-hoc network (vanet),” in IoT and Cloud Computing Advancements in
Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks. IGI Global, 2020, pp. 174–190.
[34] M. Cebe, E. Erdin, K. Akkaya, H. Aksu, and S. Uluagac,
“Block4forensic: An integrated lightweight blockchain framework for
forensics applications of connected vehicles,” IEEE Communications
Magazine, vol. 56, no. 10, pp. 50–57, 2018.
[35] H. Guo, E. Meamari, and C.-C. Shen, “Blockchain-inspired event record-
ing system for autonomous vehicles,” in 2018 1st IEEE international
conference on hot information-centric networking (HotICN). IEEE,
2018, pp. 218–222.
[36] J.-P. Monteuuis, J. Petit, J. Zhang, H. Labiod, S. Mafrica, and A. Servel,
“Attacker model for connected and automated vehicles,” in ACM Com-
puter Science in Car Symposium, 2018.
[37] Tampa. (2016) Connected vehicle pilot deployment program phase
i comprehensive pilot deployment plan. [Online]. Available: https:
//www.tampa-xway.com/
[38] J. Chang et al., “An overview of usdot connected vehicle roadside unit
research activities,” 2017.
[39] J. Chang, G. Hatcher, D. Hicks, J. Schneeberger, B. Staples, S. Sundara-
jan, M. Vasudevan, P. Wang, K. Wunderlich et al., “Estimated benefits
of connected vehicle applications: dynamic mobility applications, aeris,
v2i safety, and road weather management applications.” United States.
Department of Transportation. Intelligent Transportation . . . , Tech. Rep.,
2015.
[40] D. Gopalakrishna, C. Cluett, F. Kitchener, L. Sturges et al., “Utah
dot weather responsive traveler information system.” United States.
Department of Transportation. Intelligent Transportation . . . , Tech. Rep.,
2013.
[41] M. Hadi, M. S. Iqbal, T. Wang, Y. Xiao, M. Arafat, S. Afreen et al.,
“Connected vehicle vehicle-to-infrastructure support of active traffic
management,” 2019.
[42] F. H. Administration. (2018) Getting data into the weather data
environment. [Online]. Available: https://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publications/
fhwahop18029/fhwahop18029.pdf
[43] T. S. of Automotive Engineers. (2022) Requirements for road weather
applications j2945. [Online]. Available: https://www.sae.org/standards/
content/j2945/3 202201/
[44] CiitesToday. Six us dots pilot connected vehicle data for safer
hurricane evacuation. [Online]. Available: https://cities-today.com/
six-us-dots-pilot-connected-vehicle-data-for-safer-hurricane-evacuation/
[45] ETSI. Etsi tr 102 863 v1.1.1 (2011-06). intelligent transport systems
(its); vehicular communications; basic set of applications; local
dynamic map (ldm); rationale for and guidance on standardization.
[Online]. Available: https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi tr/102800 102899/
102863/01.01.01 60/tr 102863v010101p.pdf
[46] ——. Etsi tr 102 863 v1.1.1 (2011-06). intelligent transport systems
(its); vehicular communications; basic set of applications; analysis
of the collective perception service (cps); release 2. [Online].
Available: https://www.etsi.org/deliver/etsi tr/103500 103599/103562/
02.01.01 60/tr 103562v020101p.pdf
[47] 5GAA. C-v2x use cases volume ii: Examples and service level
requirements. [Online]. Available: https://5gaa.org/wp-content/uploads/
2020/10/5GAA White-Paper C-V2X-Use-Cases-Volume-II.pdf
[48] 3GPP. 3gpp tr 22.886: Technical specification group services and system
aspects, enhancement of 3gpp support for 5g v2x services (v16.2.0,
release 16). [Online]. Available: https://portal.3gpp.org/desktopmodules/
Specifications/SpecificationDetails.aspx?specificationId=3108
[49] F. Restuccia, S. K. Das, and J. Payton, “Incentive mechanisms for par-
ticipatory sensing: Survey and research challenges,” ACM Transactions
on Sensor Networks (TOSN), vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 1–40, 2016.
[50] W. Mobile. (2020) Wazeopedia: Your rank and points. [Online].
Available: https://wazeopedia.waze.com/wiki/USA/
[51] D. Ariely, A. Bracha, and S. Meier, “Doing good or doing well? image
motivation and monetary incentives in behaving prosocially,” American
Economic Review, vol. 99, no. 1, pp. 544–55, 2009.
[52] J. Yu, D. Kozhaya, J. Decouchant, and P. Esteves-Verissimo, “Repucoin:
Your reputation is your power,” IEEE Transactions on Computers,
vol. 68, no. 8, pp. 1225–1237, 2019.
[53] T. A. Williams, B. Chigoy, J. D. Borowiec, B. Glover et al., “Methodolo-
gies used to estimate and forecast vehicle miles traveled (vmt),” 2016.
[54] S. So, J. Petit, and D. Starobinski, “Physical layer plausibility checks
for misbehavior detection in v2x networks,” in Proceedings of the 12th
conference on security and privacy in wireless and mobile networks,
2019, pp. 84–93.
[55] S. Shen and M. Shaw, “Managing coordination in emergency response
systems with information technologies,” AMCIS 2004 Proceedings, p.
252, 2004.
[56] L. Chen and C. Englund, “Every second counts: integrating edge
computing and service oriented architecture for automatic emergency
management,” Journal of Advanced Transportation, vol. 2018, 2018.
[57] B. Maitipe, U. Ibrahim, and M. I. Hayee, “Development and field
demonstration of dsrc based v2v-assisted v2i traffic information system
for the work zone,” 2012.
[58] Y. Shoham and K. Leyton-Brown, Multiagent systems: Algorithmic,
game-theoretic, and logical foundations. Cambridge University Press,
2008.
[59] S. Leonardos, D. Reijsbergen, and G. Piliouras, “Weighted voting on
the blockchain: Improving consensus in proof of stake protocols,”
International Journal of Network Management, vol. 30, no. 5, p. e2093,
2020.
[60] C. Chen, X. Wang, W. Han, and B. Zang, “A robust detection of the sybil
attack in urban vanets,” in 2009 29th IEEE International Conference on
Distributed Computing Systems Workshops. IEEE, 2009, pp. 270–276.
[61] W. H. Riker and P. C. Ordeshook, “A theory of the calculus of voting,”
American political science review, vol. 62, no. 1, pp. 25–42, 1968.
[62] T. R. Palfrey and H. Rosenthal, “Voter participation and strategic
uncertainty,” American political science review, vol. 79, no. 1, pp. 62–
78, 1985.
[63] A. Dhillon and B. Lockwood, “When are plurality rule voting games
dominance-solvable?” Games and Economic Behavior, vol. 46, no. 1,
pp. 55–75, 2004.
[64] T. Feddersen and A. Sandroni, “A theory of participation in elections,”
American Economic Review, vol. 96, no. 4, pp. 1271–1282, 2006.
[65] D. P. Myatt, “On the theory of strategic voting,” The Review of Economic
Studies, vol. 74, no. 1, pp. 255–281, 2007.
[66] R. Protzmann, B. Schünemann, and I. Radusch, “Simulation of conver-
gent networks for intelligent transport systems with vsimrti,” Networking
Simulation for Intelligent Transportation Systems: High Mobile Wireless
Nodes, pp. 1–28, 2017.
[67] H. C. Manual, “Hcm2010,” Transportation Research Board, National
Research Council, Washington, DC, vol. 1207, 2010.
[68] W. C. V. Pilot, “Connected vehicle pilot deployment program.”
[69] U. D. of Transportation. (2019) Connected vehicle deployment technical
assistance: Security credential management system (scms) technical
primer. [Online]. Available: https://rosap.ntl.bts.gov/view/dot/43635
[70] B. Brecht, D. Therriault, A. Weimerskirch, W. Whyte, V. Kumar,
T. Hehn, and R. Goudy, “A security credential management system
for v2x communications,” IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INTELLIGENT
TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, vol. 19, no. 12, 2018.
[71] P. Wang, C.-M. Chen, S. Kumari, M. Shojafar, R. Tafazolli, and Y.-N.
Liu, “Hdma: hybrid d2d message authentication scheme for 5g-enabled
vanets,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2020.
[72] H. Aziz, Y. Bachrach, E. Elkind, and M. Paterson, “False-name ma-
nipulations in weighted voting games,” Journal of Artificial Intelligence
Research, vol. 40, pp. 57–93, 2011.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL 20
[73] D. reading. (2015) State trooper vehicles hacked.
[Online]. Available: https://www.darkreading.com/attacks-breaches/
state-trooper-vehicles-hacked-/d/d-id/1322415
Dajiang Suo is a research scientist at MIT Auto-ID
Lab. He obtained a Ph.D. in Mechanical Engineering
from MIT in 2020. Suo holds a B.S. degree in
mechatronics engineering, and an S.M. degree in
Computer Science and Engineering Systems. His
research interests include Internet of Things, con-
nected vehicles, cybersecurity, and RFID.
Before returning to school to pursue PhD degree,
Suo was with the vehicle control and autonomous
driving team at Ford Motor Company (Dearborn,
MI), working on the safety and cyber-security of
automated vehicles. He also serves on the Standing Committee on Enterprise,
Systems, and Cyber Resilience (AMR40) at the Transportation Research
Board.
Baichuan Mo is a research scientist at Lyft. He
obtained his Ph.D. degree in transportation from
MIT in 2022. He holds a dual Master’s degree in
Transportation and Computer Science from MIT,
and a Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from
Tsinghua University. His research interests include
data-driven transportation modeling, demand model-
ing, optimization, and applied machine learning.
Jinhua Zhao is the Associate Professor of City
and Transportation Planning at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology (MIT). Prof. Zhao brings
behavioral science and transportation technology
together to shape travel behavior, design mobility
system, and reform urban policies. He develops
methods to sense, predict, nudge, and regulate travel
behavior and designs multimodal mobility systems
that integrate automated and shared mobility with
public transport. He sees transportation as a lan-
guage to describe a person, characterize a city, and
understand an institution and aims to establish the behavioral foundation for
transportation systems and policies. Prof. Zhao directs the JTL Urban Mobility
Lab and Transit Lab at MIT and leads long-term research collaborations with
major transportation authorities and operators worldwide, including London,
Chicago, Hong Kong, and Singapore. He is the co-director of the Mobility
Systems Center of the MIT Energy Initiative, and the director of the MIT
Mobility Initiative.
Sanjay E. Sarma Sanjay Sarma is the Fred Fort
Flowers (1941) and Daniel Fort Flowers (1941)
Professor of Mechanical Engineering at MIT. He co-
founded the Auto-ID Center at MIT and developed
many of the key technologies behind the EPC suite
of RFID standards now used worldwide. He was
also the founder and CTO of OATSystems, which
was acquired by Checkpoint Systems (NYSE: CKP)
in 2008. He serves on the boards of GS1, EPC-
global and several companies including CleanLab
and Aclara Resources (TSX:ARA).
Dr. Sarma received his Bachelors from the Indian Institute of Technology,
his Masters from Carnegie Mellon University and his PhD from the University
of California at Berkeley. Sarma also worked at Schlumberger Oilfield
Services in Aberdeen, UK. He has authored over 150 academic papers
in computational geometry, sensing, RFID, automation and CAD, and is
the recipient of numerous awards for teaching and research including the
MacVicar Fellowship, the Business Week eBiz Award and Informationweek’s
Innovators and Influencers Award.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Internet of Things Journal. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/JIOT.2023.3236623
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:18:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.