Discover DaVinci &#x2013; A Gamified Blockchain Learning App
978-1-7281-6680-3/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE 
Discover DaVinci – A Gamified Blockchain Learning App 
Marko Suvajdzic  
University of Florida  
Digital Worlds Institute 
Gainesville, FL, USA 
marko@digitalworlds.ufl.edu 
James Oliverio 
University of Florida  
Digital Worlds Institute 
Gainesville, FL, USA 
james@digitalworlds.ufl.edu 
Angelos Barmpoutis 
University of Florida  
Digital Worlds Institute 
Gainesville, FL, USA 
angelos@digitalworlds.ufl.edu 
 
Liam Wood 
University of Florida 
Digital Worlds Institute 
Gainesville, FL, USA 
liamvwood@ufl.edu 
Paul Burgermeister 
University of Florida 
Digital Worlds Institute 
Gainesville, FL, USA 
Paul@digitalworlds.ufl.edu 
 
 Abstract - Discover DaVinci is a novel augmented reality 
system that incorporates blockchain technology with 
experiential learning to engage participants in an interactive 
discovery of Leonardo da Vinci’s ouvre. In the true spirit of this 
“Renaissance man”, Discover DaVinci explores new ideas and 
technologies “ahead of their time”.   
Keywords—AR, blockchain, gamification, education, 
experiential learning, DaVinci 
 
I. INTRODUCTION  
In order to illustrate the emerging potential at the intersection 
of art and blockchain, we present a case study of a new 
interactive system produced at the University of Florida Digital 
Worlds Institute.  
The technologies of mobile computing, augmented reality 
(AR), and blockchain are starting to merge, creating new 
opportunities and scenarios to interact with our environment. In 
AR we can look at virtual objects superimposed within a real 
environment and resize them, rotate them, explore and interact 
with them on multiple levels. With the combination of AR and 
blockchain, we can create a system capable of keeping track of 
digital assets located virtually in 3D space (i.e., spatial 
computing). The global scale of blockchain and related 
technologies heightens the potential for trade and digital 
distribution with a fully automated and trusted way to keep track 
of their creations without a “middle-man”. 
Discover DaVinci is a novel educational tool that teaches 
concepts of blockchain technology through an augmented 
reality experiential learning game.  
II. DISCOVER DAVINCI PROJECT PARTNERSHIPS 
This project was developed in collaboration with several units 
from the University of Florida and industry partners: 
• Digital Arts & Sciences Faculty (Computer Science 
and Digital Worlds Institute) 
• Digital Worlds Studios’ Artists and Programmers 
• Gator Blockchain Club (gatorblockchainclub.com) – 
Student-run blockchain club at the University of 
Florida 
• Entrepreneurship and Innovation Center (UF 
Warrington College of Business) 
• Creative Campus Committee at the University of 
Florida 
Industry Partners: 
• DLUX, decentralized content network (dlux.io) 
• Steem (steem.com), and Steemit (steemit.com) 
 
III. RESEARCH STUDY – “DISCOVER DAVINCI” 
Discover DaVinci (Fig.1) utilizes the format of a digital, 
collectible trading & drafting card game with AR elements on 
the STEEM blockchain. Although each player “owns” their 
cards, all transactions are public. Every collectible card is a 
unique token, owned by the player - a digital asset registered to 
the player’s account. The aim is to draw new question cards 
daily, answer the questions about Leonardo DaVinci, collect the 
special AR invention cards, and ultimately submit the 
accumulated card collection into a drawing for prizes. The app 
was developed to honor the 500th anniversary of Leonardo 
Davinci by promoting new and innovative technologies.  
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:39:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1 Discover DaVinci game interface, University of Florida (2019) 
 
By using a novel combination blockchain, and spatial 
computing/AR technologies, the Discover DaVinci mobile app 
allows users to explore holographic images of da Vinci’s 
devices. By combining AR with blockchain technology, we 
have created a system capable of assigning unique values and 
user comments to these digital assets, thus providing a personal 
sense of ownership, the potential for trade, and a fully 
automated and trusted way to keep track of these digital 
artifacts (e.g. collected 3D objects in AR space). Finding the 
artifacts themselves is an act of discovery, further enhanced by 
subsequent investigation, collection, and sharing of the artifacts 
across a diverse social media ecosystem. 
The blockchain system was implemented using the STEEM 
API, which handled the writing of new user accounts and the 
reward transactions to the block chain (Fig. 2 bottom). The front 
end was developed as a web app that rendered the various 2D 
and 3D/AR components of the game (Fig. 2 top right). Finally, 
the authentication and account creation was handled using a 
third-party service, called STEEM Ninja (Fig. 2. top left). 
 
IV. DISCUSSION 
We launched Discover DaVinci app to the initial audience of 
University of Florida students and faculty in November of 2019. 
Over the period of 60 days, we engaged ~150 participants who 
played the game, and left their feedback on the project’s 
discussion board. 
The player feedback has been analyzed, and the subsequent 
versions in the “Discover” series are currently being evaluated. 
The project is intended to continue as a platform for gamified 
education that promotes participant interaction, and supports 
focused learning on a topic of choice. 
We believe that this novel confluence of art, technology, and 
digital communications represents a tangible example of how 
artists and cultural researchers can leverage the potential of 
diverse digital resources to support both creative development 
and cultural inquiry. The Discover DaVinci app allows a diverse 
player community to utilize their existing mobile devices and 
participate in acknowledging da Vinci’s life work while 
exploring a new paradigm of digital convergence. The outcomes 
included an enhanced cross-campus appreciation of personal 
creativity, social and cultural engagement, and a working 
framework that exemplifies how emerging technologies can 
serve esthetic ends while also ensuring fair use and exchange of 
intellectual property in the digital age. 
 
Acknowledgements 
The authors would like to thank the students and staff who 
contributed to the development of the app: Steven Ettinger, 
Mark Giles, Jan Zamojski, Kelvin Chang, Ryan Trimble, Nick 
Heitzman, Seung Hyuk Jang, Anna Walters, Kristen Eldridge, 
Anthony Monteagudo, Aaron Karlson, Chelsea Cantrell, 
Gabriel Coleman, Jared Crane, Justin Marlin, Tim Difato, and 
members of the UF Bachelor of Arts in Digital Arts and Sciences 
Society. 
We would also like to express our appreciation to the 
University of Florida Creative Campus Committee for providing 
support for this project through the catalyst fund program.
 
Fig.2 Discover DaVinci - System Architecture illustration, University of Florida (2019) 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:39:14 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.