Engineering Blockchain Enabling Win A Fortune Game among Novice through eAOM
Engineering Blockchain Enabling Win A Fortune Game among
Novice through eAOM
Michelle Libin Ten
Faculty of Computer Science &
Information Technology, UNIMAS
michelle10libin@gmail.com
Waishiang Cheah*
Faculty of Computer Science &
Information Technology, UNIMAS
wscheah@unimas.my
Sim Yee Wai
Faculty of Computing and
Engineering, QUEST International
University
yeewai.sim@qiu.edu.my
ABSTRACT
Blockchain application development has received much attention
nowadays. As development is complex and challenging, a system-
atic approach is needed to improve the product, services, and pro-
cess quality. Despite the introduction of techniques, there are still
inadequate models for demonstrating the blockchain’s internal ar-
chitecture. Hence, there is a gap when developing the blockchain
application, a gap in the modelling environment of a blockchain
development application. This paper introduces a new insight
into blockchain application development through extended Agent-
Oriented Modelling (eAOM). eAOM is a methodology for complex
socio-technical system development, and we believe that it can
reduce the complexity of implementing the blockchain application.
In this paper, the eAOM is used to model a blockchain-based “win
a fortune” system, which includes smart contract development. It
showcases the feasibility of adopting eAOM to model a blockchain
enabling application. A usability survey among the novices has fur-
ther validated the usability and benefits of eAOM in the blockchain
enabling application development.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Software Engineering; • Software Methodology;
KEYWORDS
Blockchain application development, Model-driven Engineering,
Agent Oriented Modelling, Ethereum Smart Contract
ACM Reference Format:
Michelle Libin Ten, Waishiang Cheah*, and Sim Yee Wai. 2022. Engineering
Blockchain Enabling Win A Fortune Game among Novice through eAOM.
In 14th ACM Web Science Conference 2022 (WebSci ’22), June 26–29, 2022,
Barcelona, Spain.ACM, New York, NY, USA, 8 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/
3501247.3539018
1 INTRODUCTION
With the rapid growth of innovative technology, blockchain tech-
nology has received much attention nowadays. Satoshi Nakamoto
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish,
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain
© 2022 Association for Computing Machinery.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9191-7/22/06. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3501247.3539018
found blockchain in 2008 [1]. It is a decentralized database dis-
tributed across a network of devices. It is known as a node.
Blockchain provides a secure, trustworthy, and transparent en-
vironment for data transactions. Each transaction will generate
a new block on the network and propagate to other nodes. The
block consists of a current and previous block hash, and data are
immutable once deployed to the network.
Aside from cryptocurrency, blockchain applications are growing
in the most divergent fields. Regardless of the exponential surge
in interest in Decentralized Applications (DApp), it currently lacks
well-organized software development approaches [2]. The interest
in Blockchain Technology has resulted in significant investment,
generally in rapidly creating applications to be the first on the
market, which has resulted in massive disasters, typically due to
poor design and inadequate security practices [3]. Udokwu et al.
[4] addressed blockchain technologies’ limitations and common
issues. For example, Blockchain Technology is facing complexity,
usability, and architecture design issue. Hence, we have foreseen a
gap in blockchain application development. Therefore, the primary
purpose of this paper is to introduce an alternative methodology
for blockchain application development from an Agent-Oriented
Modelling perspective.
The primary research question is howAgent-OrientedModelling
Framework can support blockchain application development? The
research question should answer that the agent-oriented modelling
can capture blockchain characteristics and flow. Then, the sub-
question is inferred based on the primary research question. What
are modelling notations used to form the framework? How does the
modelling notation in the framework relate to blockchain elements?
What are the benefits of using the framework in the development
of a blockchain enabling application? As blockchain is a complex
system, extended Agent-Oriented Modelling (eAOM) can bridge
the gap. eAOM is methodology that handles complex systems. With
eAOM, we argue that it can aid the blockchain developers in identi-
fying and analyze requirements, design and implement blockchain
application.
This paper presents a case study where the blockchain is used to
solve a "win a fortune" game system. We used the proposed method-
ology, eAOM, to trigger the blockchain application’s functionality
and potential. To evaluate the usefulness and completeness of the
eAOM, we experiment with a group of novice users and compare
the proposed methodology with UnifiedModelling Language (UML)
and AOM.
The remainder of the paper will be organized in the follow-
ing manner: Section 2 presents the related works in engineering
443
https://doi.org/10.1145/3501247.3539018
https://doi.org/10.1145/3501247.3539018
https://doi.org/10.1145/3501247.3539018
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3501247.3539018&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2022-06-26
WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain Michellelibin Ten et al.
blockchain 1applications. Section 3 presents a walkthrough exam-
ple of how eAOM is adopted to blockchain based lottery mobile
games. Section 4 presents the analysis and findings of the adop-
tion of AOM and eAOM among novices in blockchain application
development. Finally, the paper is concluded in Section 5.
2 RELATEDWORKS
The next subsections provide instructions on how to insert fig-
ures, tables, and equations in your document. This section high-
lights current research on software development methodologies for
blockchain applications. First, the existing study papers are sorted
into a few categories: Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC),
Agile Methodology, Agile Block Chain DApp Engineering (ABCDE),
Model-Driven Methodology, Decentralized Agent-Oriented Mod-
elling (DAOM), Action Design Research (ADR) Approach, Entity
Relationship Diagram (ERD), Unified Modelling Language (UML),
and Business Process Modelling Notation (BPMN).
Miraz and Ali [5] pointed out the limitations of the current
methodology due to the blockchain characteristics: immutability
behaviour, consensus mechanism, and gas cost during the transac-
tion using a smart contract. Thus, Software Development Life Cycle
(SDLC) models are challenging to fulfil, especially in the testing
and maintenance phase.
Fridgen et al. [6] addressed that blockchain requires a technology-
driven and systematic approach to design and develop potential
blockchain use cases. The researchers apply the action design re-
search (ADR) approach and situational method engineering (SME)
to develop blockchain use cases. ADR consists of four steps: "prob-
lem formulation", "building, intervention, and evaluation", "reflec-
tion and learning", and "formalization of learning".
Researchers proposed adopting the Agile approach, a flexible,
iterative, and adaptive methodology that involves gathering re-
quirements, development, testing, and gathering feedback from
users and enhancement. Agile methodology allows us to ensure
software quality and usability. This methodology has been applied
in various projects such as the Crypto-Trading project [7], smart
cities project [8], Initial Coin Offering [9], and Supply Chain Opera-
tions [10]. Researchers proposed an Agile approach with a flexible,
iterative, and adaptive methodology that involves gathering re-
quirements, developing, testing, and gathering feedback from users
and enhancement.
Since the year 2018, a team of researchers has made a great
effort to propose an extension methodology from the agile ap-
proach, known as Agile Block Chain Development Engineering
(ABCDE) [3], [11]. The idea behind using ABCDE is because the
smart contract is complicated. Unlike traditional programming,
smart contracts introduced new concepts such as the contract’s ad-
dress to perform a transaction; gas requires executing the contract
and digital money transfer between two parties [11].
On the other hand, Model-driven engineering (MDE) is widely
used in blockchain technology [12], [13], [14], and [15]. Model-
Driven is convenient to design models and convert them to code by
using tools. [14] pointed out that the code generation tools allowed
us to apply best practices and well-tested building blocks.
The study in introduces decentralized agent-oriented modelling
(DAOM) based on the model-driven framework. These models ac-
commodate both technical and non-technical clients’ communica-
tions. It is a three-step procedure for determining requirements
and describing the architecture of a DApp. First, the AOM goal
model is used in the initial stage to define the preliminary needs for
dealing with the usability and complexity issues. The second stage
involves connecting the UML component diagram to the project
architecture. Finally, a UML sequence diagram is used to support
the protocols and blockchain operations.
From the review, modelling is needed to model the complexity of
blockchain enabling application development and to prevent bugs
and errors. Furthermore, the smart contract will be implemented
on various applications that handle sensitive data and money, so
it is essential to have a formalized model for a systematic way to
plan, implement, and design the blockchain application.
In order to fill this gap, Agent-Oriented Modelling (AOM) is
proposed and used in our research. The benefits of using AOM are
to document how the agent achieves the goal and how the agent
behaves in a different situation, as elaborated in the following
section. To date, AOM has been adopted in 3D simulation [16],
video surveillance [17], emotion application [18], games [19].
3 MATERIAL AND METHODS
The eAOM consists of five phases before implementation, testing,
and deployment, there are: requirement elicitation, conceptualiza-
tion domain modelling, early identification of blockchain use case,
platform independent design and modelling, and platform specific
modelling.
Requirement elicitations are conducted using Human Oriented
Method for Eliciting Requirement (HOMER) technique, it is to
collects the needs of the domain experts and stakeholders through
a series of question. This can be done through meeting, round
table, interview, and self-examination to understand and analyze
the problem.
Conceptualization domain modelling transform the HOMER an-
swer into goal model, role model, organization model, and domain
model. The models aid to obtain what expected of the system by
describing the context in which it operates [20].
Early identification of blockchain use case adopt e3 value model
to identify a potential and sustainable use case. E3 value model can
fulfil the requirements of replacing middleman, a market structure
that works in peer, and immutable transaction in a blockchain
environment [21]. Agent role mapping are constructed to transform
the actors from the previous model into dedicated agent.
Platform independent design and modelling presents the
blockchain properties that design for the system. This phase con-
sists of knowledge model, interaction model, scenario model, and
behavior model.
Platform specific model consists of the transformation rules to
map the design model to code. In this paper, Ethereum platform is
selected to adopt the transformation rules.
444
Engineering Blockchain Enabling Win A Fortune Game among Novice through eAOM WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain
Figure 1: Goal model for win a fortune game case study
Table 1: Role Description of the Lottery Agency
Name Lottery agency
Description A department that manages the operation of the company.
Responsibility Set, announce, and obey rules and regulations.
Select a winner.
Verify and validate the winning lottery ticket.
Distribute the prize to the winner.
Constraint Select winner based on the rules and regulations stated.
3.1 A Workthrough Case Study
This section elaborates the proposed methodology based on a walk-
through example of a blockchain enabled win a fortune game sys-
tem. Win a fortune game is a type of game that provides players
an opportunity to win big prizes. Win a fortune game is similar to
lottery game but differ from gambling as it does not require any
technique to win the game but luck. Although the current lottery
industries have existed for more than decades, it is suffering from
trust issues [22]. Hence, there are many blockchain based lottery
application have been developed [22], [23]. Due to the popularity
of the game, we present the blockchain based win a fortune game
through eAOM. As early decision on blockchain is important prior
system design and implementation, we introduce a walkthrough
example of early decision which involve conceptualization domain
modelling and early identification as described as following.
Figure 1 illustrates the main goal of operating a lottery industry
which require integrity, ethical, reliability and scalability. The hu-
man agent involve in lottery industry are the government, banker,
lottery agency, lottery intermediary, and player. To operate lottery
industry, the government are responsible to monitor the industry
by declare the law. Banker monitor and handle financial flow of
the lottery industry. The lottery agency manages the company and
achieve the sales target. Lastly the player with a goal of win a
fortune.
Next is the role model that presents the role description, re-
sponsibility, and constraint. The role model could aid blockchain
developers in understanding the roles before design the blockchain
application. Table 1 and Table 2 shows the role models of the lottery
agency and lottery intermediary.
The organizational model in Figure 2 shows the relationship be-
tween the government, banker, lottery agency, lottery intermediary,
player, and winner. The government controls the lottery agency
by using the law. The agency will cooperate with the banker to
manage the financial flows of the company. Next, the lottery in-
termediaries are controlled by the lottery agency to obey the rules
and regulations of the company. The lottery intermediaries know
the player when the player buys tickets from the agent. Lastly, the
winner is inherited from the players selected by the lottery agency.
Figure 3 shows domain model that illustrates the relationship
between the human agents and entities when an event occurs. In
the entire cycle of lottery operation, the lottery agency must follow
the law stated by the government. The government will monitor the
lottery agency to prevent the agency breaks the law. Besides, the
lottery agency, intermediary, players, and the winner must enforce
the company’s rules and regulations. The transaction will be done
between the intermediary and the player by ticket trading. The
lottery intermediaries will calculate the total sales and generate a
report to the agency.
Then, the player will wait for the result announcement based
on the time frame stated in the rules and regulations. Once the
winner is announced, the winner can collect the prize at the official
counter. However, the player needs to show the lottery ticket to the
445
WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain Michellelibin Ten et al.
Table 2: Role Description of the Lottery Intermediary
Name Lottery intermediary
Description The person who serves the lottery company and act as the middleman of manager and player.
Responsibility Help the company sell a lottery ticket.
Obey the rules and regulations set by the company.
Calculate and report the number of tickets sold and total bets in a game.
Boost company sales.
Constraint The ticket must sell at the official lottery counter or platform.
The report of tickets sold should be valid and immutable.
Figure 2: Organization model
Figure 3: Domain model for win a fortune game case study
lottery agency as a proof. The agency is responsible for verifying
and validating the ticket before handing the prize to the winner.
e3 value model is used for early identification of blockchain use
case. Figure 4 shows the e3 value model of the lottery blockchain
use case. The aggregator is a role that can be filled by any party like
government or banker. In this case, government, banker, and lottery
intermediary is replace by the aggregator and the e3 value shows
the value exchange among the agents (player, winner, aggregator,
and the lottery agency). Based on the requirements stated by [21],
the e3 value model highlighted the following points:
1. Eliminate middleman: the aggregator acts as a middleman
to handles the ticketing and transaction.
446
Engineering Blockchain Enabling Win A Fortune Game among Novice through eAOM WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain
Figure 4: e3 value model for win a fortune game case study
Table 3: Scoring system for AOM and eAOM evaluation
Conceptual domain modelling
No Criteria Point
1 Is the model at this layer able to show fairness issue? 1
2 Is the model at this layer able to show transparency issues? 1
3 Is the model at this layer able to show scalability issues? 1
4 Is the model at this layer able to show how bankers manage the issue? 1
5 Is the model at this layer able to show how intermediaries sell a ticket? 1
Early identification of blockchain use case
No Criteria Point
1 Is the model at this layer able to eliminate the middleman? 1
2 Is the model at this layer able to show the transaction history? 1
3 Is the model at this layer able to show the peer market structure? 1
Platform independent design and modelling
No Criteria Point
1 Is the model at this layer able to show how smart contracts solve fairness? 1
2 Is the model at this layer able to show how Blockchain provide transparency? 1
3 Is the model at this layer able to show the transaction made through a smart contract? 1
4 Is the model at this layer able to show how smart contracts arrange the player ticket? 1
5 Is the model at this layer able to show how data is store on the Blockchain? 1
2. Establish trust: There is a need to trust the parties to handle
the ticket and transaction.
3. Immutable data history: The aggregator keeps track of the
ticket and transaction.
4 RESULTS AND DICUSSION
This section presents the evaluation of the eAOM. The evaluation
aimed to investigate the needs of AOM and eAOM for blockchain
application development. The experiment is conducted among 140
novices from Faculty of Compute Science and Information Tech-
nology, University Malaysia Sarawak. The students have taken a
course, Advance Software Engineering for a semester. The students
undergo two experiments for this evaluation.
Throughout this course, the students completed an assignment
by research and review the existing blockchain technology, attended
a blockchain lecture given by Dr. Alexander Norta and a workshop
to understand the eAOM on blockchain application. After attending
the talk and workshop, the students shared a similar grasp of the
blockchain concept. Then, a case study is given to the students to
model the blockchain based Win a Fortune game by using AOM
and eAOM. The students’ models were graded based on the scoring
system as shown in Table 3. The first experiment is to evaluate the
usability of AOM, thus the scoring for experiment 1 are mainly
focus on conceptual domain modelling and platform independent
design and modelling; while second experiment evaluate the us-
ability of eAOM, the scoring system focus on conceptual domain
modelling, early identification of blockchain use case, and platform
independent design and modelling.
The results of the students are then filtered based on their atten-
dance of the blockchain lecture and workshop to ensure consistency.
A total 45 students’ result are calculated and tabulated as shown
in Figure 5. Based on the results, approximately over half of the
students could model and analyze at least three lottery industry
problems in the conceptual domain modelling. Most of the students
failed to model the blockchain element in the platform independent
447
WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain Michellelibin Ten et al.
Figure 5: Result for experiment 1 (AOM)
design and modelling. 22.22% of the students were able to model
the minor blockchain element at the design specification.
From the findings, we can foresee the gaps when modelling
the blockchain application through AOM in details. The students
then to mix up the problem analysis and technology design even
though the AOM stated the problem and technology design in two
different layers. For example, most of the students included the
blockchain technology at the conceptual domain modelling even
though they knew the conceptual domain modelling is for problem
analysis, On the other hand, the students failed to identify the
elicited answers based on the case study given. This led to missing
blockchain elements during the modelling process.
Although the students learned AOM and obtained blockchain
knowledge through lectures and assignments, most of the students
still could not understand the different abstractions of AOM. It is
also apparent that blockchain properties are hard to be defined in
the AOM. Nevertheless, the AOM is too general that it makes it dif-
ficult to trigger the blockchain requirement without the extension
of AOM.
Thus, experiment 2 was conducted to test the usability of eAOM
for blockchain application development. From the findings in Figure
6, the eAOM helps to derive more potential blockchain criteria. The
eAOM provides more complete steps to help the students in identi-
fying the blockchain requirement in phase 3 of early identification
of blockchain use case.
Based on the result, the blockchain design is much complete in
the platform independent design and modelling. The result at the
conceptual domain modelling phase is as similar as Experiment 1.
However, the students adopt the correct concept of the conceptu-
alization domain modelling and examine the problem in the case
study. In early identification of blockchain use case, most of the
students could capture the needs of Blockchain, such as eliminat-
ing intermediaries, presenting the market structure, and the value
exchange between the agents. Significantly, over half of the stu-
dents were able to model at least three blockchain criteria. 44.44%
of the students achieved 4 points and above, 15.55% of the students
scored 3 points, 28.89% students got 2 points, and only 11.11% of
the students got 1 point and below.
With the eAOM, the results in the platform independent design
and modelling phase have improved significantly. The students
were able to understand how blockchain may handle fairness and
transparency. For example, a smart contract could execute the select
winnermechanism to achieve fairness. Some of the students allowed
Figure 6: Result for experiment 2 (eAOM)
Figure 7: The Overview of the Platform Independent Design
and Modelling Layer Result
the smart contract to generate random numbers, and some let the
system choose a winner randomly.
The graph in Figure 7 shows a clear trend in which the students
could completely utilize blockchain technology to solve the problem
by extracting more blockchain properties. There are 60% of the
students able to model at least three blockchain elements using the
eAOM, whereas only 2.22% of the students achieve this score. The
mean score for AOM and eAOM is tabulated in Table 5. Significantly,
the mean score of platform and independent design and modelling
phase for eAOM is 2.755 higher than the standard AOM. This finding
confirms the usefulness of the eAOM. This concurs well with the
objectives of the research.
Based on the mean result in Table 5, the experiments showed
that the eAOM could aid to design a better blockchain application
than AOM. Equation 1 is used to prove the hypothesis.
H2: µextended AOM>µAOM (1)
448
Engineering Blockchain Enabling Win A Fortune Game among Novice through eAOM WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain
Table 4: Comparison of Experiment 1 and Experiment 2 in Percentage
5 4 3 2 1 0
Experiment 1 0.00 0.00 2.22 8.88 11.11 77.78
Experiment 2 22.22 22.22 15.56 28.89 6.66 4.44
Table 5: Mean Score for AOM and eAOM
Modelling Technique AOM eAOM
Mean 0.356 3.111
In sum, the findings in Experiments reveals that the eAOM could
help a beginner design a blockchain application by starting with
problem analysis. The eAOM outperforms the AOM in terms of
investigating identifying blockchain needs using the e3 value model.
There are several threats to validity that should be acknowledged
in this study. The students learned blockchain knowledge through
lectures. The students that attended the lecture shared a similar
grasp of the Blockchain concept. They used their understanding of
blockchain technology to apply to the AOM and eAOM. However,
the ability of each student to model the case study is different.
Even though students were given blockchain-related assignments
and lectures, they may require additional blockchain expertise to
reduce threats. To strengthen the blockchain knowledge of the
students, Dr Alexander was invited to give a talk on Blockchain
topic. Then the eAOM was introduced through the workshop to
stimulate potential blockchain features to the use case.
Besides, the perspective of each student is different, which may
cause threats to validity. The test was given in a blind test mode to
reduce the bias of the experiment. Next, the time constraint for the
final was insufficient, and the case study was only part of the exam.
Thus, the students might take the least time to complete the case
study without going into details.
5 CONCLUSION
This paper has provided new insight on the blockchain development
approach. In doing so, the state of art on blockchain technology
is studied and summarize to examine the gap. Then, eAOM is in-
troduced and validated by using win a fortune game case study.
Besides, eAOM is evaluated among students through experiments.
The experiments require the students to model the case study by
using AOM and eAOM. The result of the experiment is collected
and analyzed. The analysis revealed that the eAOM successfully
helps the novices to elicit blockchain requirements along the way
from analyze the problem and identify the needs of blockchain.
Concerning the security aspect of the blockchain application, we
can also expect to improve the methodology by generate test case
based on the model.
REFERENCES
[1] Satoshi Nakamoto. 2008. Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System. Decen-
tralized Business Review, 1–9.
[2] Giorgia Lallai, Andrea Pinna, Michele Marchesi, and Roberto Tonelli. 2020. Soft-
ware Engineering for DApp Smart Contracts managing workers Contracts Soft-
ware Engineering for DApp Smart Contracts managing workers Contracts. In
DLT@ ITASEC.
[3] Michele Marchesi, Lodovica Marchesi, Roberto Tonelli. 2018. An Agile Software
Engineering Method to Design Blockchain Applications. In Proceedings of the
14th Central and Eastern European Software Engineering Conference Russia,
1-8.
[4] Chibuzor Udokwu, Aleksandr Kormiltsyn, Kondwani Thangalimodzi, Alex Norta.
2019. The State of the Art for Blockchain-Enabled Smart-Contract Applications
in the Organization. In Ivannikov Ispras Open Conference (ISPRAS), 137-144. doi:
10.1109/ISPRAS.2018.00029.
[5] Mahdi H. Miraz, Maaruf Ali. 2020. Blockchain Enabled Smart Contract Based
Applications: Deficiencies with the Software Development Life Cycle Models.
vol. 33, no. 1, 101–116, 2020, [Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.10589
[6] Gilbert Fridgen, Jannik Lockl, Sven Radszuwill, Alexander Rieger, André
Schweizer, Nils Urbach. 2018. A solution in search of a problem: A method
for the development of blockchain use cases. In AMCIS 2018, vol. 4801, 2018.
[7] Katiuscia Mannaro, Andrea Pinna, Michele Marchesi. 2017. Crypto-Trading:
Blockchain-oriented energy market. AEIT International Annual Conference. 1–5.
doi: 10.23919/AEIT.2017.8240547.
[8] Simona Ibba, Andrea Pinna, Matteo Seu, Filippo Eros Pani. 2017. CitySense:
blockchain-oriented Smart Cities. In Proceedings of the XP2017 Scientific Work-
shops.
[9] Simona Ibba 1, Andrea Pinna, Maria Ilaria Lunesu, Michele Marchesi and Roberto
Tonelli. 2018. Initial coin offerings and agile practices. Future Internet, vol. 10,
no. 11, 103, 2018. doi: 10.3390/fi10110103.
[10] Jesús M. Montes, Victor M. Larios, Manuel Avalos, Cecilia E. Ramírez. 2018.
Applying Blockchain to Supply Chain Operations at IBM Implementing Agile
Practices in a Smart City Environment. Res. Comput. Sci., vol. 147, no. 2, 65–75.
doi: 10.13053/rcs-147-2-5.
[11] Lodovica Marchesi, Michele Marchesi, Roberto onelli. 2019. ABCDE – Agile Block
Chain Dapp Engineering. Blockchain: Research and Applications. 1-2.
[12] Christopher K. Frantz, Mariusz Nowostawski. 2016. From Institutions to Code:
Towards Automated Generation of Smart Contracts. IEEE 1st International
Workshops on Foundations and Applications of Self* Systems (FAS* W). doi:
10.1109/FAS-W.2016.53.
[13] Stefan Seebacher, Maria Maleshkova. 2018. Model-driven Approach for the De-
scription of Blockchain Business Networks. In Proceedings of the 51st Hawaii
international conference on system sciences. doi: 10.24251/HICSS.2018.442.
[14] Claudio Di Ciccio, Alessio Cecconi, Marlon Dumas, Luciano Garc´ia-Bañuelos,
Orlenys López-Pintado, Qinghua Lu
[15] JanMendling, Alexander Ponomarev, An Binh Tran, IngoWeber, 2019. Blockchain
Support for Collaborative Business Processes. Informatik-Spektrum, vol. 42, no.
3, pp. 182–190. doi: 10.1007/s00287-019-01178-x.
[16] Mantas Jurgelaitis, Vaidotas Drungilas, Lina Čeponienė, Rita Butkienė, Evaldas
Vaičiukynas. 2019. Modelling principles for blockchain-based implementation
of business or scientific processes. In CEUR workshop proceedings: IVUS 2019
international conference on information technologies: proceedings of the in-
ternational conference on information technologies, Kaunas, Lithuania CEUR
Workshop Proc., vol. 2470, pp. 43–47.
[17] Chibuzor Udokwu, Henry Anyanka, Alex Norta. 2020. Evaluation of Approaches
for Designing and Developing Decentralized Applications on Blockchain. In
Proceedings of the 2020 4th international conference on algorithms, computing
and systems. pp. 55–62, 2020. doi: 10.1145/3423390.3426724.
[18] WaiShiang Cheah, Bong Thian Onn, Fu Swee Tee, Muhammad Asraf Bin Khairud-
din, andMahmuhMahunnah. 2016. Developing agent-oriented video surveillance
system through agent-oriented methodology (AOM). J. Comput. Inf. Technol.,
vol. 24, no. 4, pp. 349–368. doi: 10.20532/cit.2016.1002869.
[19] Swahwani Fizil Zulkifli, WaiShaing Cheah, Muhammad Asyraf bin Khairuddin,
and Nurfauza bt Jali. 2020. Modeling emotion oriented approach through agent-
oriented approach. International Journal Adv. Sci. Eng. Inf. Technol., vol. 10, no.
2, pp. 647–653. doi: 10.18517/ijaseit.10.2.10644.
449
http://arxiv.org/abs/2001.10589
WebSci ’22, June 26–29, 2022, Barcelona, Spain Michellelibin Ten et al.
[20] Matteo Baldoni, Cristina Baroglio, Diego Calvanese, RobertoMicalizio, andMarco
Montali. 2016. Data and Norm-aware Multiagent Systems for Software Modular-
ization (Position Paper). In International Workshop on Engineering Multi-Agent
Systems, EMAS 2016 (pp. 23-38). IFAAMAS.
[21] Bousetta Brahim, El Beggar Omar, Gadi Taoufiq. 2013. A methodology for CIM
modelling and its transformation to PIM. Journal of Information Engineering
and Applications, 3(2), pp. 1–22.
[22] Geert Poels, Fadime Kaya, Michaël Verdonck1 and Jaap Gordijn. 2019. Early
identification of potential distributed ledger technology business cases using
e3value Models. Lect. Notes Comput. Sci. (including Subser. Lect. Notes Artif.
Intell. Lect. Notes Bioinformatics), vol. 11787 LNCS, no. October 2017, pp. 70–80,
2019. doi: 10.1007/978-3-030-34146-6_7.
[23] Liao, Da-Yin, and Xuehong Wang. 2017. Design of a Blockchain-Based Lot-
tery System for Smart Cities Applications. In 2017 IEEE 3rd International
Conference on Collaboration and Internet Computing (CIC), pp. 275-282. doi:
10.1109/CIC.2017.00044.
[24] Zhifeng Jia, Rui Chen, Jie Li. 2019. DeLottery: A Novel Decentralized Lottery
System Based on Blockchain Technology. In Proceedings of the 2019 2nd Inter-
national Conference on Blockchain Technology and Applications, pp. 20-25.
450
	Abstract
	1 INTRODUCTION
	2 RELATED WORKS
	3 MATERIAL AND METHODS
	3.1 A Workthrough Case Study
	4 RESULTS AND DICUSSION
	5 CONCLUSION
	References