A Life-Long Learning Education Passport Powered by Blockchain Technology and Verifiable Digital Credentials: The BlockAdemiC Project
A Life-Long Learning Education Passport
Powered by Blockchain Technology
and Verifiable Digital Credentials: The
BlockAdemiC Project
Sofia Terzi1,2(B) , Stamelos Ioannis1, Konstantinos Votis2,
and Thrasyvoulos Tsiatsos1
1 Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece
{sofiaterzi,stamelos,tsiatsos}@csd.auth.gr
2 Center for Research and Technology Hellas, Thessaloniki, Greece
{sofiaterzi,kvotis}@iti.gr
Abstract. The academic and business domains are in constant trans-
formation due to the technological advances. In this context, proof of
knowledge, skills and training are becoming crucial for the students and
employees. In a competitive environment like that, forgery of diplomas
and certificates is a frequent problem that has not been faced properly
yet. Additionally, the lack of a formal representation and acknowledg-
ment of informal and life-long learning outcomes costs to all educational
stakeholders and employee seekers. By using open source blockchain tech-
nology as a game changer throughout the educational process, security,
privacy, integrity and immutability of the data related to diplomas, cer-
tificates and skills acquired by learners can be guaranteed. The result of
building a system supported by blockchain for life-long learning, a pos-
itive impact in trust and transparency of the education achievements,
institutions, students and companies is achieved.
Keywords: Education · Blockchain · Verifiable credentials ·
Anti-forgery · Digital identity
1 Introduction
The business world is facing a surge in demand for technical skills as it becomes
more digitized and it finds it difficult to hire qualified and trained personnel [1].
In this environment, proof of skills, training and education are important in order
to get hired by companies. This proof is mainly provided in forms of diplomas and
certificates which include information for the candidate’s educational and knowl-
edge background. Unfortunately, the forgery of diplomas and certificates is a well-
known problem in the academic sector leading universities and other institutions
to even stop issuing them in paper [2]. At the same time, there are many infor-
mal ways of being educated and trained apart from universities. Life-long learning
c© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
A. Cerone et al. (Eds.): SEFM 2021 Workshops, LNCS 13230, pp. 249–263, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-12429-7_18
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-031-12429-7_18&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3967-1197
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-12429-7_18
250 S. Terzi et al.
(LLL) and digital education courses help to acquire microcredentials - which are
a representation of the smaller units of knowledge that are not included in a stan-
dard diploma or degree - and are not currently represented in national qualifica-
tion frameworks [3] and thus they lack a formal proof, though they represent skills
that are needed for certain job positions. Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCS)
for example have evolved from single-course into multi-course with associated
degrees, such as the XSeries degree by Coursera and the Nanodegree by Udac-
ity, accredited with microcredentials to prove the skills and training [4] someone
has achieved after successfully completing them.
In parallel, the academic world is also being further digitized than just in
the administrative tasks. Especially after the pandemic of Covid-19 in many
EU countries the educational processes are taking place either fully online or in
hybrid mode both in physical and digital presence. This comes with the opportu-
nity to capture learners’ interactions through the learning management systems
(LMS) and monitor their learning outcomes in order to assign fine-grained badges
and microcredentials to them. These microcredentials can then be combined with
or accompany the student’s diploma to demonstrate the upskill achieved. When
speaking about diplomas and microcredentials representation in this paper, we
are always referring to their digital format, unless noted otherwise.
Since proof of education and skills is often used to apply for subsequent stud-
ies to other national or international education institutions and for job vacancies
at companies as well, it is crucial to eliminate any chances of this proof being
counterfeit. Blockchain (BC) technology can be used to sustain availability of
such credentials while preventing the forgery of the digital records that are stored
on it. This is possible because of BC’s principal characteristics which include a
decentralized append-only database type called ledger, with its records - called
transactions - being timestamped, digitally signed, added to blocks connected
as a merkle-tree forming the ledger and written only after a consensus among
the participating servers - which are called nodes - has been achieved [5]. Taking
advantage of open source BC technologies and their features, the BlockAdemiC
(BCA) project will create a digital cybersecure system (platform) for certifying
and verifying educational activities, diplomas, certificates and skills in higher
education (HE) and LLL domains. This system is supporting a cryptograph-
ically secured wallet that cannot be tampered, for safe storing all the digital
credentials (DC) related to a person’s education and training, forming a digital
education passport (EDP). BCA differentiates from all other projects that sup-
port storing DCs because it goes a step further to record, apart from diplomas
and certificates, the educational activities covering special skills - such as scien-
tific and technical - and general skills. Thus, by adding a lower level of student
activity recording, it achieves to capture specific actions that lead to acquiring
these special and general skills, and stores them immutably on the BC ledger,
making them integral part of the EDP. The rest of this paper is separated in
three subsections describing a) the BCA potential and the problems it attempts
to solve, b) what is blockchain and how it helps to solve the described problem,
c) expected impact after piloting the platform, and d) conclusions and future
work.
The BlockAdemiC Project 251
2 The BlockAdemiC Project
2.1 BlockAdemiC Overview
BCA as a project provides a decentralized immutable lifelong cybersecure EDP.
To this direction it adopts the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation
System (ECTS) for HE institutions’ (HEI) students to represent learning out-
comes and make academic qualifications recognized across EU countries [6]. The
platform that has been developed will be applied at the Aristotle University of
Thessaloniki, the largest university in Greece, and at least three more educa-
tional institutions in Greece and abroad. Students registered through the BCA
will hold a student’s digital wallet, that will be used as the EDP, to store their
DCs such as diplomas and certificates. By utilizing BC technology HEIs and LLL
institutions (LLLI) will issue digital tokens to store soft and hard skills as DCs.
A token is an educational credit that reflects in the qualifications that learners
have acquired after completing a learning activity.
Qualifications according to the Greek National Qualifications Framework [7]
take the form of learning outcomes classified into predefined levels. Learning
outcomes - for example what the person knows, understands and can do after
completing a learning process - are categorized into knowledge, skills and abili-
ties. A wallet in BC technology is a permanent digital personal storage and in
BCA can be held on-chain or off-chain. The difference between the two types is
that when stored on-chain this wallet is decentralized hosted on the BC network,
when stored off-chain it is hosted on the user’s personal computer storage. BCA’s
goal as a project goes beyond previous BC based education platforms such as
Blockcerts and BCdiploma that only store the diplomas [8,9] or EduCTX that
uses as a learning unit only the results of written exams to calculate the total
ECTS earned by the students [10]. What differentiates BCA is its ambition to
capture the total effort of the overall activities that students have on LMS and
that can be expressed in ECTS and qualifications. This perspective makes the
learning measurement unit more precise than just a single exam result.
Special care has been taken to protect the BCA users’ personal and sensi-
tive information by choosing open source technologies supporting the platform to
form a private BC network where only registered users can participate. This also
differentiates BCA from other education platforms that use public BCs, such as
the Ethereum network [11,12], not only in terms of privacy, but also in terms of
lowering the costs for storing information and operating the network, having bet-
ter response times and storage speed, while maintaining security, decentraliza-
tion, immutability and transparency. This way, information exchange processes
between the participating institutions is being reinforced and secured at the
same time by the BC technology. The same applies for all the other participants
on this network, namely students, alumni and companies offering job opportu-
nities. All of the participants are able to exchange information only after being
authenticated and authorized. After research, four main roles - called actors -
have been identified at BCA’s design stages to be the end users of the system,
and their interactions have been defined. After defining the roles, their interac-
252 S. Terzi et al.
tions formed the use case scenarios that would be supported by the system. The
actors are
– The educational institutions, which include the HEIs and the LLLIs
– The teachers that are part of the educational institutions
– The students and alumni of the educational institutions
– The companies that are offering job opportunities and are interested in
trained personnel with special skills and knowledge
The actions that each of these actors can perform are the following
– Educational Institutions and Teachers
• HE Institutions
* Register for an institution account for authentication and authoriza-
tion
* Issue verifiable DCs (diplomas, degrees, certificates)
* Verify DCs issued by any educational institution
• LLL Institutions
* Register for an institution account for authentication and authoriza-
tion
* Issue verifiable DCs (certificates)
* Verify DCs issued by any educational institution
• Teachers
* Register for a personal teacher’s account for authentication and
authorization
* Issue verifiable DCs (microcredentials)
– Students
• Register for a personal student or alumni account for authentication and
authorization
• Hold a life-long EDP
• Participate to activities and courses in order to earn DCs (diplomas,
degrees, certificates, microcredentials)
• Present their EDP to HEIs and LLIs for subsequent studies or to employ-
ers looking for personnel
– Companies/Employers
• Register for a company account for authentication and authorization
• Announce job vacancies and define additional special skills needed to
apply
• Search with specific criteria for alumni in order to offer job opportunities
• Verify DCs issued by any educational institution
The specific use case scenarios covered by the common interactions between the
above mentioned actors are explained next.
The first scenario BCA covers is the need for issuing DCs like diplomas and
certificates and capturing microcredentials all along the educational process.
Furthermore, by storing the verifiable DCs on the immutable BC ledger, BCA
prohibits tampering of all kinds of DC tokens contained in the EDP address-
ing the fraud of diplomas and certificates forgery. Furthermore, BCA confronts
The BlockAdemiC Project 253
not only the forgery of diplomas and microcredentials, but also makes them
auto-verifiable by other users of the BC network using complicate cryptographic
techniques covered in detail at Sect. 2.3. The actors interacting in this use case
are HEIs, teachers and students. Figure 1 demonstrates the high level steps for
storing a token as a verifiable DC on the BC representing a microcredential
or a diploma. BC hosts the student’s wallet on-chain in this case, which serves
as the storage for the DCs which formulate as explained before the EDP. The
wallet, and by that the EDP, is accessible by the students and they can have
an overview of the complete list of DCs they have acquired throughout their
learning journey.
Fig. 1. Issue tokens as verifiable digital credentials
The second scenario BCA covers is the students’ need for subsequent studies
at other HEIs than the one they received their degree and therefor the assis-
tance of students’ mobility between EU countries, or even worldwide. Students’
mobility is a priority in EU, and special programmes, like the Erasmus+ [13],
are dedicated to support individual applicants and organizations such as uni-
versities, training centers and companies to take part in education and training
in Europe, apply for grants and facilitate the complete mobility process. The
actors interacting in this use case are the students and the HEIs. What is worth
noticing for Fig. 2 which presents the high-level steps for this scenario, is that
the HEI that issued the diploma as a DC and digitally signed it - named uni-
versity A - in the previous scenario takes no part in this information exchange
and DC verification. That happens because BC eliminates the need for verify-
ing DCs by a third-party other than the ones that are involved in this specific
transaction [14]. Additionally, in this use case instead of a university acting as
254 S. Terzi et al.
an actor for auto-verifying the integrity of the diploma, could be a LLL training
center with the only condition to have registered for an account and participate
in the BCA network.
Fig. 2. Applying for a master course
The third scenario BCA covers is the need of companies searching for job
candidates in order to find the appropriate ones based on their training and skills.
Moreover, it allows companies to publish job vacancies so students fulfilling the
requirements can apply for a them. After a company registers and creates their
profile, it is assigned an account which serves as an identity for accessing the
BCA network. After that, they are able to issue queries with specific criteria to
receive results from a pool of students and alumni holding diplomas, certificates
and skills and who have consent to be included in this list. That use case will
facilitate the need for connecting the education institutions students and alumni
and the labor market, easing the process called school-to-work transition [15,16].
Figure 3, demonstrates the high-level steps when a student or alumni applies for a
job vacancy and the auto-verification of the DCs that are needed and presented
for this position. As explained before, the verification of the DCs presented
does not require the involvement of the issuer as argued before, disengaging
the necessity for third-party verifiers, speeding up the whole process. In this
particular scenario, the forming of a subset of DCs on the fly from the EDP -
rather than sending just one DC for proving the candidate fulfills the specific
skills and education - inserts a level of flexibility per use case and is a paradigm
of how an EDP can serve as a life-long secure education passport in different
circumstances and occasions.
The BlockAdemiC Project 255
Fig. 3. Applying for a job
2.2 Innovation and Objectives
The project is innovative to its grounds due to the fact that it uses BC decen-
tralized technology for security, confidentiality and combines it with learning
analytics, as follows:
– It ensures the authenticity and makes impossible to falsify the learning out-
comes, as well as the acquired knowledge, abilities and skills through the regis-
tration of the tokens and the relevant diplomas/certificates on the ledger. This
is achieved by distributing copies of data to all BC nodes hosted by the par-
ticipating organizations and institutions. The distribution of data enhances
also the speed and the consensus (agreement) and avoids the single point
failure in the education network.
– It ensures access to the system only to authorized users and allows the def-
inition of classified rights. For example, only certified instructors/training
providers are able to record students’ results, while students/trainees are in
control of sharing with third parties, such as companies, only the data they
choose to share.
– It automates the process of certification of learning outcomes. For this pur-
pose, SCs have been developed, which are code (software) that is executed
automatically as long as certain predefined conditions are met.
– It enhances the participation of students/learners in the process of consent
and verification of learning activities. Suitable decentralized blockchain-based
mobile decentralized applications (DApp) has been developed for this pur-
pose.
– It ensures interoperability with the support of international standards and
their implementation on the BCA platform to lay the foundations for inte-
gration with other systems of similar educational applications in either the
national or international educational environment.
256 S. Terzi et al.
– It assesses the learning activities with additional metrics other than learning
outcomes. Such metrics aim at assessing the skills necessary for the student to
enroll for a particular course or general skills such as communication, collab-
oration, understanding, taking initiatives, problem solving. Those metrics are
usually collected through calibrated psychometric tests and in BCA through
user actions like contributing to collaborative activities.
– It increases usability and end user friendliness through the adoption of gam-
ification techniques, interfacing with existing digital training platforms and
connecting to social media, mainly professional as Linkedin, and academic as
ResearchGate and academia.eu (Fig. 4).
Fig. 4. BlockAdemiC overview
BCA successful implementation is divided in four separate and equally impor-
tant objectives as described below:
– Objective 1: To create a complete system of distributed security with open
source technologies, which will extend and ensure the certification and verifi-
cation of educational activities, skills and qualifications in HE and LLL. BCA
will provide an individual, tamper-proof and therefore inviolable educational
passport, based on BC technology. In this EDP, both the diplomas and the
relevant educational records will be stored in the form of convertible digital
educational credits (tokens), adopting appropriate mechanisms of learning
analytics. The tokens will be linked to the formal education system (in the
case of HEI), and the labor market through the adoption of corresponding
interoperability mechanisms that will allow the recognition of educational
‘parchments’ at a pan-European and global level. In this way it is expected
to facilitate the mobility of students, but also professionals, by opening new
prospects for professional and academic development, including personalized
learning.
The BlockAdemiC Project 257
– Objective 2: To design and develop the appropriate framework and mecha-
nisms of learning analytics in order to automatically link learning metrics with
the assessment of (technical) knowledge (hard skills) and horizontal skills (soft
skills) of learners. The proposed framework of learning analytics will directly
link the individual learning activities of the trainees with the relevant knowl-
edge and horizontal skills through a credit system compatible (where possible)
with ECTS. At the same time, this framework will allow learners - in collab-
oration with trainers - to choose their learning path (personalized training),
adapted to their learning goals, knowledge and skills ensuring the interoper-
ability of learning tools. The learning analytics mechanisms that have been
developed are integrated into a gamification framework in order to make the
overall solution more attractive to the learners and to give them additional
incentives to adopt it.
– Objective 3: To develop a technological platform of distributed digital secu-
rity for the registration of educational activities, degrees and certifications on
a BC ledger forming an EDP. The platform supports storing, presentation
and verification of diplomas and other kinds of tokens as well as the ability to
share student VCs with stakeholders and companies. BC solutions improve
verification processes and eliminate false training credits claims that were
never obtained or that have undergone forgery. At the same time, they enable
transactions such as the transfer and convertibility of educational units, and
the recognition of learning activities.
– Objective 4: To pilot and validate the operation of the proposed technologi-
cal solution in real conditions. The integrated system, as well as its individual
functions will be piloted in 2 broader scenarios: in a postgraduate program of
AUTh and in at least 3 more collaborating educational institutions in Greece
and abroad, the network of the partner Web2Learn. The results of the pilot
application will be evaluated for the purpose of (a) the performance of the
proposed system in relation to the requirements analysis and project objec-
tives, (b) the recording and implementing of individual improvements in the
system, and (c) the evaluation of possibilities for exploiting the results beyond
the framework of the project.
2.3 BlockAdemiC Technological Background
As argued before, BCA is a project that utilizes open source BC technology in
order to create a secure, decentralized and tamper-proof EDP for storing DCs.
The reason behind using the BC technology for the system is mainly to prevent
forgery of diplomas in HE and LLL domains and to create a LLL EDP. BC
can increase transparency and credibility with its immutable storage, the ledger.
Additionally, the immutable transactions that are being added on the ledger
create permanent records, with an associated permanent link, called anchor.
This anchor, along with the digital signature for each transaction makes auto-
verification of the records possible. In more detail, when a transaction such as a
diploma is stored on the ledger for a graduate student, the digital signature of
the institution issuing this diploma is stored along with the transaction. Digital
258 S. Terzi et al.
signatures have the characteristic of being self-verified, because they contain the
public key of the signer, in this case the HEI’s or the LLLI’s [17].
Fig. 5. Auto-verification of a diploma’s validity
The verification of the diploma based on the HEI’s digital signature that
is stored along with the diploma, follows certain steps that are implied by the
Public Key Infrastructure specification framework, utilizing the X.509 HEI’s
digital certificate issued by a trusted Certification Authority (CA) [18]. First,
institute A is issued a certificate by a trusted CA and holds a private and a
public key. Then, institution A issues a diploma as a DC for a student and
digitally signs it with its private key. The DC contains, apart from the related
information and the holder of the diploma, the digital signature and the public
key of the issuer, in this case institution A. When the holder of the diploma
presents it to institution B to apply for a master course for example, institution
B receives the DC that contains information about the issuer and retrieves the
issuer’s public key. With this information alone, institution B is able to verify
the validity of institution’s A certificate and the integrity of the information
regarding the diploma record on the BC which institution A signed before. The
high-steps of this process are displayed in Fig. 5.
What is worth noting regarding the BCA implementation is that institution
A and institution B have no direct interaction or information exchanged between
them. Instead, the PKI infrastructure and the BC network supporting the solu-
tion allows the auto-verification of the diploma’s origins and integrity directly
from the BC solution. The only difference in BCA regarding a traditional PKI
implementation, is that the CA is running on the BC network as a service and
it’s not a third-party trusted authority. When more than one CA is running on
the BC we can achieve a decentralized CA along with the decentralized stor-
age for the BCA platform. Currently only one CA is running on the network,
The BlockAdemiC Project 259
but more than one is possible to cooperate in real life scenarios, where a trusted
chain can be formed between the various CAs, for example at an institution level
(one per HEI). The actual implementation differs from the above general one
and is displayed in Fig. 6, where the trusted CA runs on one of the BC nodes,
participating on the network.
To achieve the automation of assigning DCs to trainees and students but also
enforce the rules that frames the allowed and prohibited interactions between
BCA’s participating actors, BC smart contracts (SC) are running on the back-
ground. A SC is a software program that runs on the BC network and contains
conditions that must be met in order for specific actions to happen, such as stor-
ing a diploma in a student’s EDP or controlling the process when the student
consents upon to an institutions request to present their diploma to apply for
a master course. SCs are functions that run on the background as services and
they can be called directly or indirectly. For example, if a HEI other than the
one that issued the diploma attempts to access a student’s diploma without their
consent, a SC is activated without a human interaction to prevent this from hap-
pening. In another situation, where the student wants to present their diploma
to apply for a master course or for a job application, a human interaction is
needed to trigger the appropriate SC. This happens through a software appli-
cation, which is called DAPP. The DAPP makes possible for the BCA users to
interact with the SCs and consequently the BC network through a user-friendly
environment, hiding the complexity of the background technologies. The system
is powered by the Hyperledger Indy BC solution (Linux Foundation), which is an
open source framework, providing tools, libraries and reusable components for
providing decentralized digital identities with focus on interoperability among
the various connected applications and platforms [19]. It contains mechanisms
for storing students’ and alumni’s verifiable DCs in the EDP and associate them
with specific digital decentralized IDs called DIDs [20], keeping them secured,
immutable and private.
2.4 Expected Impact
The piloting of the platform is expected to have strategic positive effect in the
following areas:
– The trust between the training institutions as well as the companies (future
employers of the trainees) regarding the knowledge and skills of the trainees.
The security and availability of the data that is registered and exchanged will
improve.
– The competitiveness of the educational institution based on the innovations
that the project brings to the educational practice. The transparency of the
whole process supported by BC technology will enhance the credibility of the
institutions and the degrees they award. It aspires also to provide the frame-
work for personalized education in HEIs and LLLIs, and enhance student
mobility between educational institutions, as well as business confidence in
260 S. Terzi et al.
Fig. 6. Auto-verification of a diploma in BlockAdemiC project
the quality of education and the breadth of their knowledge and skills. Stu-
dents and alumni will be better evaluated by the companies as prospective
employees.
– In the educational part, to help in better quality learning and teaching prac-
tices, improved curricula, better guidance services for students in terms of
their courses and studies either in the same institution or in other educational
institutions. Teachers will have a more complete picture of their students’
progress, so they will be able to intervene more sportively and effectively,
but also in a more general context. Teachers and therefore the educational
institution, will be in position to guide and support students during and after
completion of courses, and faster (in terms of selecting subsequent courses or
study programs at other institutions). Due to the transparency of the infor-
mation, that information and the monitoring will be more effective for the
student
– In the financial part to exploit economic benefits deriving from the BCA
application adoption and usage by the stakeholders.
– In the social part to provide better educational services and opportunities in
society and enhance the credibility of institutions to students and businesses.
The project will also help build institutional trust, using the functions of
BC immutability and timestamping. The service will provide employers and
recruiters with reliable information about their degree and other skills they
may have acquired during their careers.
3 Conclusions and Further Research
The academic and employment processes are being transformed due to the tech-
nological evolution. Along with this, students and job seekers need to prove
The BlockAdemiC Project 261
their skills and special training in the digital world and educational institutions
are called to provide these proofs, while maintain the integrity of this informa-
tion. BC open source technologies support the integrity of information stored
and exchanged, ensures the validity of the stored microcredentials and diplomas
and protects against forgery of these digital credentials. That creates a secure,
trusted and transparent environment where all of the education stakeholders take
advantage form the automation of verification of diplomas, certificates, skills and
microcredentials in general. With BCA, the decentralization of the information
provides an additional layer of data redundancy eliminating the problems of ser-
vice outages, single point of failure and data loss. Furthermore, by utilizing an
EDP, a secure and organization independent personal storage for tokens is cre-
ated which can accompany the holder throughout their education and working
careers.
We acknowledge the limited testing of the system in a lab environment,
and we anticipate to use it in production to confirm the expected outcomes pre-
sented in this paper. In order to explore the system’s usefulness for the education
ecosystem’s end users a research questionnaire has been formed and distributed
to selective HEIs at principals and students. Its results are encouraging and
substantiates our expected results and they will be presented after piloting the
system. Additionally, in the future, we intend to connect the identity manage-
ment system we developed based on Hyperledger Indy with well established
and legacy systems of HEIs and LLLIs in order to examine the compatibility
and interoperability with these systems on site. In our next paper we will also
present metrics regarding the efficiency of the system. Another research area
that concerns us for BCA is the scalability of the solution and we will exam-
ine it in relation to the actual piloted environment. As mentioned before, the
questionnaire provided us preliminary information for the necessity of a plat-
form like BCA which provides an holistic solution from the educational process
to the actual employment market and we are sure that our system will be well
established among the different stakeholders.
Acknowledgements. This work was funded from the PA (Partnership Agreement
for the Development Framework) 2014–2020 under project No. T2EDK-04180, project
BlockAdemiC.
References
1. America’s small businesses still can’t find workers, but that’s not their
biggest problem. (n.d.). https://www.cnbc.com/2021/08/10/the-labor-shortage-
isnt-main-streets-biggest-problem.html. Accessed 10 Feb 2022
2. Gresch, J., Rodrigues, B., Scheid, E., Kanhere, S.S., Stiller, B.: The proposal of a
blockchain-based architecture for transparent certificate handling. In: Abramowicz,
W., Paschke, A. (eds.) BIS 2018. LNBIP, vol. 339, pp. 185–196. Springer, Cham
(2019). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04849-5 16
3. Brown, M., Mhichil, M.N., Beirne, E., Mac Lochlainn, C.: The global micro-
credential landscape: charting a new credential ecology for lifelong learning. Journal
Articles; Reports - Descriptive 27 (2021)
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/08/10/the-labor-shortage-isnt-main-streets-biggest-problem.html
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/08/10/the-labor-shortage-isnt-main-streets-biggest-problem.html
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04849-5_16
262 S. Terzi et al.
4. Pickard, L., Shah, D., De Simone, J.J.: Mapping microcredentials across MOOC
platforms. Learn. MOOCS (LWMOOCS) 2018, 17–21 (2018). https://doi.org/10.
1109/LWMOOCS.2018.8534617
5. Nofer, M., Gomber, P., Hinz, O., Schiereck, D.: Blockchain. Bus. Inf. Syst. Eng.
59(3), 183–187 (2017). https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0467-3
6. Gleeson, J., Lynch, R., McCormack, O.: The European Credit Transfer System
(ECTS) from the perspective of Irish teacher educators. Eur. Educ. Res. J. 20(3),
365–389 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1177/1474904120987101
7. Greek National Qualifications Framework. https://nqf.gov.gr/en/index.php/ta-8-
epipeda. Accessed 10 Feb 2022
8. Jirgensons, M., Kapenieks, J.: Blockchain and the future of digital learning creden-
tial assessment and management. J. Teach. Educ. Sustain. 20(1), 145–156 (2018).
https://doi.org/10.2478/jtes-2018-0009
9. Bahrami, M., Movahedian, A., Deldari, A.: A comprehensive blockchain-based solu-
tion for academic certificates management using smart contracts. In: 2020 10th
International Conference on Computer and Knowledge Engineering (ICCKE), pp.
573–578 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCKE50421.2020.9303656
10. Turkanović, M., Hölbl, M., Košič, K., Heričko, M., Kamǐsalić, A.: EduCTX: a
block-chain-based higher education credit platform. IEEE Access 6, 5112–5127
(2018). https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2789929
11. BouSaba, C., Anderson, E.: Degree validation application using solidity and
ethereum blockchain. SoutheastCon 2019, 1–5 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1109/
SoutheastCon42311.2019.9020503
12. Gräther, W., Kolvenbach, S., Ruland, R., Julian, S., Ferreira Torres, C., Wendland,
F.: Blockchain for education: lifelong learning passport. In: Prinz, W. (ed.) Euro-
pean Society for Socially Embedded Technologies. EUSSET, Bonn. 1st ERCIM
Blockchain Workshop 2018. Proceedings of the Blockchain Engineering: Challenges
and Opportunities for Computer Science Research, 8–9 May 2018, Amsterdam,
Netherlands (2018)
13. Lesjak, M., Juvan, E., Ineson, E.M., Yap, M.H.T., Axelsson, E.P.: Erasmus student
motivation: why and where to go? High. Educ. 70(5), 845–865 (2015). https://doi.
org/10.1007/s10734-015-9871-0
14. Kutty, R.J., Javed, N.: Secure blockchain for admission processing in educational
institutions. In: 2021 International Conference on Computer Communication and
Informatics (ICCCI), pp. 1–4 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCCI50826.2021.
9402654
15. Lechner, C.M., Tomasik, M.J., Silbereisen, R.K.: Preparing for uncertain careers:
how youth deal with growing occupational uncertainties before the education-to-
work transition. J. Vocat. Behav. 95–96, 90–101 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1016/
j.jvb.2016.08.002. ISSN 0001-8791
16. Pastore, F.: Why so slow? The school-to-work transition in Italy. Stud. High. Educ.
44(8), 1358–1371 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1080/03075079.2018.1437722
17. Singh, M., Kaur, H., Kakkar, A.: Digital signature verification scheme for image
authentication. In: 2015 2nd International Conference on Recent Advances in Engi-
neering & Computational Sciences (RAECS), pp. 1–5 (2015). https://doi.org/10.
1109/RAECS.2015.7453277
18. Munivel, E., Ajit, G.M.: Efficient public key infrastructure implementation in wire-
less sensor networks. In: 2010 International Conference on Wireless Communica-
tion and Sensor Computing (ICWCSC), pp. 1–6 (2010). https://doi.org/10.1109/
ICWCSC.2010.5415904
https://doi.org/10.1109/LWMOOCS.2018.8534617
https://doi.org/10.1109/LWMOOCS.2018.8534617
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12599-017-0467-3
https://doi.org/10.1177/1474904120987101
https://nqf.gov.gr/en/index.php/ta-8-epipeda
https://nqf.gov.gr/en/index.php/ta-8-epipeda
https://doi.org/10.2478/jtes-2018-0009
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCKE50421.2020.9303656
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2789929
https://doi.org/10.1109/SoutheastCon42311.2019.9020503
https://doi.org/10.1109/SoutheastCon42311.2019.9020503
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734-015-9871-0
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10734-015-9871-0
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCCI50826.2021.9402654
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICCCI50826.2021.9402654
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb.2016.08.002
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jvb.2016.08.002
https://doi.org/10.1080/03075079.2018.1437722
https://doi.org/10.1109/RAECS.2015.7453277
https://doi.org/10.1109/RAECS.2015.7453277
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICWCSC.2010.5415904
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICWCSC.2010.5415904
The BlockAdemiC Project 263
19. Priya, N., Ponnavaikko, M., Aantonny, R.: An efficient system framework for man-
aging identity in educational system based on blockchain technology. In: 2020 Inter-
national Conference on Emerging Trends in Information Technology and Engineer-
ing (ic-ETITE), pp. 1–5 (2020). https://doi.org/10.1109/ic-ETITE47903.2020.469
20. Terzi, S., Savvaidis, C., Sersemis, A., Votis, K., Tzovaras, D.: Decentralizing iden-
tity management and vehicle rights delegation through self-sovereign identities
and blockchain. In: 2021 IEEE 45th Annual Computers, Software, and Applica-
tions Conference (COMPSAC), pp. 1217–1223 (2021). https://doi.org/10.1109/
COMPSAC51774.2021.00168
https://doi.org/10.1109/ic-ETITE47903.2020.469
https://doi.org/10.1109/COMPSAC51774.2021.00168
https://doi.org/10.1109/COMPSAC51774.2021.00168
	A Life-Long Learning Education Passport Powered by Blockchain Technology and Verifiable Digital Credentials: The BlockAdemiC Project
	1 Introduction
	2 The BlockAdemiC Project
	2.1 BlockAdemiC Overview
	2.2 Innovation and Objectives
	2.3 BlockAdemiC Technological Background
	2.4 Expected Impact
	3 Conclusions and Further Research
	References