Design of Joint Trading Platform for Electricity- Carbon Market Based on Blockchain Technology
 
 
Design of Joint Trading Platform for Electricity-
Carbon Market Based on Blockchain Technology 
Guang Tian, Yang Yang, Beifang Xu* 
State Grid Hebei Electric Power Co., Ltd., Shijiazhuang Hebei 050021, China 
*yyang8958@126.com 
 
Abstract—The conventional trading platform of the 
electricity-carbon market trades under the framework of e-
commerce, and the transaction cost is relatively high, which 
affects the economic benefits of electric power enterprises. 
Therefore, this paper designs a joint trading platform for the 
electricity-carbon market based on blockchain technology. On 
the hardware, the ZYNQ-7045 core processor is designed. In the 
aspect of software, this paper establishes the joint transaction 
function module and analyzes the software architecture of the 
platform. Then, blockchain technology is used to design the 
trading game algorithm in the electricity-carbon market, which 
can reduce the platform transaction cost and effectively realize 
low-cost trading in the electricity-carbon market. By testing the 
platform, it is verified that the transaction cost of the platform is 
lower, and it can be applied in real life. 
Keywords-Blockchain technology; Electricity-carbon market; 
Joint trading platform; Carbon valence; Electricity price; 
Transaction 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The electricity-carbon market is the main environment for 
green electricity trading and certificate trading. The 
coordination between the electricity market and the carbon 
market is very important, which can improve the economic 
benefits of the electricity market on the premise of realizing 
low carbon. Currently, the trading platform of the electricity-
carbon market has high stability and reliability through the 
blessing of various procedures. However, the transaction cost 
increases correspondingly, which leads to the reduction of the 
economic benefits of the electricity market. To solve the above 
problems, researchers have designed a variety of trading 
platforms. Among them, the platform based on PHP 
technology in the internet + e-commerce framework and the 
platform based on the WeChat applet are widely used. 
The platform based on PHP technology in the internet + e-
commerce framework is a trading platform derived from PGP 
technology under the comprehensive framework of Internet 
technology and e-commerce. This platform can avoid the 
problem of users being cheated in the trading process, and it is 
a trading platform worthy of users' trust [1]. The platform 
based on the WeChat applet mainly uses the WeChat applet to 
alleviate the waste of resources in the electricity-carbon market 
and provide users with a good platform trading experience [2]. 
However, the high transaction costs of the above two trading 
platforms have seriously affected the economic benefits of 
power enterprises [3]. Blockchain technology is a kind of block 
ledger which can divide relevant information into different 
blocks for analysis and achieve the purpose of openness and 
reliability [4]. Therefore, this paper uses blockchain technology 
to design a joint trading platform for the electricity-carbon 
market. 
II. HARDWARE DESIGN 
A. The ZYNQ-7045 core processor 
The ZYNQ-7045 core processor designed in this paper 
contains 350K logic unit, which completes the input and 
output of power data through a high-speed Ethernet interface 
so the platform can run at high speed. The peripheral FMC 
interface can monitor the temperature and voltage changes of 
the chip and ensure the safe use of the processor [5-7]. Built-in 
storage module, including 4 DDR3 high-speed particles, with a 
storage space of 1GB, provided abundant storage and extended 
storage space for power data. The specific application of the 
processor is shown in Figure 1 below. 
 
Figure 1 The ZYNQ-7045 core processor application block diagram 
As shown in Figure 1, RJ-45 is the processor interface. 
MDC and MDIO are Ethernet pins. MAC is a signal-
processing device. The LED is the indicator of the processor. 
RJ-45 interface, transformer, core processing chip, MAC 
device and other components are indispensable [8]. The electric 
power is accessed through RJ-45 interface, coupled with 
electric carbon through the transformer, and connected to the 
platform through MAC equipment, which provides data 
support for the platform. 
III. SOFTWARE DESIGN 
A. Establish joint transaction function module 
In the electricity-carbon market environment, electricity is 
traded as pending orders. The user pays the electricity price 
after the order is pending, and the electricity dispatch is 
executed after the transaction is completed. In this process, it is 
necessary to operate on the blockchain. In the form of smart 
contract calling transaction mode, the transaction will be 
successful if it is written into the block, and the transaction will 
2022 4th International Academic Exchange Conference on Science and Technology Innovation (IAECST)
979-8-3503-2000-8/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 173
20
22
 4
th
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l A
ca
de
m
ic
 E
xc
ha
ng
e 
C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 S
ci
en
ce
 a
nd
 T
ec
hn
ol
og
y 
In
no
va
tio
n 
(I
A
EC
ST
) |
 9
79
-8
-3
50
3-
20
00
-8
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IA
EC
ST
57
96
5.
20
22
.1
00
61
92
8
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:46:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
be rejected if it is not written into the block to ensure the 
security of the transaction [9]. The trading structure of the 
platform is shown in Figure 2 below. 
 
Figure 2 Platform transaction structure diagram 
As shown in Figure 2, after the user orders, he enters the 
trading centre, orders on the service block, and writes the 
transaction into the blockchain. After the user pays successfully, 
the power dispatch is carried out [10]. This transaction form 
can not only improve the transaction security but also the 
transaction chain, providing security for power enterprises. 
B. Design of trading game algorithm in electric carbon 
market based on blockchain technology 
In order to realize the low-cost transaction in the electric 
carbon market, this paper will maximize the interests of buyers 
and sellers from the perspective of game theory. Enterprises 
and users are independent of each other, so a cooperative game 
model is established, and the expression is as follows: 
( ); ( )i iK S B                                 (1) 
In formula (1), K is the expression of the cooperative 
game model; iS is the i-th electricity sale of electric power 
enterprises; iB is the i-th power purchase of users. When iS  
and iB  don't meet each other, they need to participate in the 
second stage transaction. The supplementary conditions of this 
stage are: 
1 1
( ) ( ) 0
i i
K K
B S
i i
Q t Q t
 
    (2) 
In formula (2), ( )
iBQ t is the amount of electricity 
purchased by the user at the t-th moment after the end of the 
first transaction; ( )
iSQ t is the amount of electricity sold by the 
electric power enterprise at the t-th moment after the end of the 
first transaction. Assuming that the conductivity of carbon 
price to electricity price is 100%, and the carbon price is 
completely conductive to electricity price at this time, the 
transaction cost is: 
1
( ) ( )
i i
K
si
j B t S
i
M Q t P Q t

    (3) 
In formula (3), jM is the transaction cost; 
( )
i
si
BQ t subsidizes the purchase of electricity; ( )
i
s
SQ t is the 
power generation cost; tP compensates the average price for 
the unit of power generation. In the electricity-carbon market, 
the higher the jM , the higher the platform application 
efficiency, and the greater the economic benefits of power 
enterprises. 
IV. PLATFORM TEST 
In order to verify whether the joint trading platform 
designed in this paper has the use value, this paper tests the 
above platform. After the debugging of hardware and software, 
make the platform in a normal running state. The final test 
results are presented by comparing the platform based on PHP 
technology in the internet + e-commerce framework in 
literature [1], the joint trading platform of the electricity-carbon 
market based on the WeChat applet in literature [2] and the 
joint trading platform of the electricity-carbon market based on 
blockchain technology designed in this paper. The specific test 
process and test results are shown below. 
A. Test procedure 
Before testing, this paper debugs the hardware and software 
of the platform. After the ZYNQ-7045 core processor is 
installed according to the instructions, the voltage of the circuit 
part is 4.5V, and the current is 1.5A, which can ensure the 
normal installation of the circuit. After the processor is 
installed, the green indicator lights up, which can ensure that 
the ZYNQ-7045 core processor is in a normal running state. 
Set the platform software part as low-level input, with a signal 
rate ≤4.25GBd, to ensure the normal use of the platform 
software. After debugging the platform's hardware and 
software, analyse the trading platform's transaction verification 
performance, as shown in Figure 3 below. 
 
Figure 3 Flow chart of transaction verification of trading platform 
174
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:46:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
As shown in Figure 3, the Web front end is the operation 
step of the user's pending order. The Flask background is the 
processing step of the user's payment transaction. Encapsulate 
NodeSDK module as the execution step of platform transaction 
function. The Channel deployed in the blockchain is the 
scheduling step to complete the transaction. Intelligent 
contracts, CA, Peers, Orderer, PBFT, and MSP are the 
operating interfaces for the platform. Such as transaction, 
consensus, broadcast, authentication, block writing, verification, 
etc. SCADA is the platform information acquisition step. After 
the blockchain transaction is initiated, the transaction 
information is transmitted to the Flash background for 
authentication through the Web front end. After a series of 
transaction verification steps, the interface shown in Figure 4 
below appears. 
 
Figure 4 Main interface of the trading platform
As shown in Figure 4, in the trading platform, click on the 
main page to display the main panel, my pending orders and 
other information. And upload and process data such as order 
number, seller, electricity quantity, electricity price and 
pending order status. In the main interface, the order 
information is clear, ensuring the platform's normal use. 
B. Test results 
Under the above test conditions, eight power plants 
DT_1~DT_8 were selected in this paper, and the conductivity 
of carbon price to electricity price in the carbon market varied 
from 65% to 100%. Under the same other conditions, the 
transaction cost of a PHP technology platform based on the 
internet + e-commerce framework in literature [1], the 
transaction cost of a joint trading platform based on the 
WeChat applet in literature [2] and the transaction cost of joint 
trading platform based on blockchain technology designed in 
this paper are compared. The test results are shown in Table 1 
below. 
Table 1 Test results 
Power 
plant 
number 
Conductivity 
of carbon price to 
electricity price in 
carbon market/% 
Literature [1]: The 
transaction cost of PHP 
technology platform based 
on internet + e-commerce 
framework/10,000 yuan. 
Literature [2]： 
Transaction cost of 
joint trading 
platform based on 
the WeChat 
applet/10,000 yuan 
This paper designs: 
The transaction cost of the 
joint trading platform 
based on blockchain 
technology/10,000 yuan. 
DT_1 65 48.63 40.33 25.92 
DT_2 70 52.16 45.67 35.67 
DT_3 75 56.42 50.12 40.32 
DT_4 80 60.03 55.63 42.76 
DT_5 85 75.64 61.61 46.28 
DT_6 90 89.99 66.36 48.36 
DT_7 95 105.43 72.48 50.69 
DT_8 100 128.63 77.23 52.12 
As shown in Table 1, the conductivity of carbon price to 
electricity price in the carbon market is different among the 
eight power plants randomly selected in this paper. Under the 
constraint of power plant transactions, the conduction effect of 
the carbon price on electricity price gradually increases. When 
the conductivity is 100%, the carbon price is conducive to the 
electricity price. At this time, reducing the carbon price can 
achieve the high-efficiency trading goal of the electricity 
market, lower the transaction cost of the trading platform, and 
truly realize the long-term goal of carbon trading. All other 
conditions being the same, the transaction cost is relatively 
high after using the PHP technology platform based on the 
internet + e-commerce framework in reference [1]. In the 
transaction process, the conduction effect of the carbon price 
on the electricity price cannot be released, which restricts the 
transaction efficiency. After using the joint trading platform 
based on the WeChat applet in literature [2], the transaction 
cost has decreased. In the process of trading, the conduction 
effect of the carbon price on the electricity price is gradually 
released, which makes the trading efficiency improve slowly. 
However, after using the joint trading platform based on 
blockchain technology designed in this paper, the transaction 
175
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:46:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
 
cost is relatively low, the transmission effect of the carbon 
price on electricity price is high, and the transaction efficiency 
is high. The platform designed in this paper can meet the needs 
of trading, improve the economic benefits of the power market, 
and meet the research purpose of this paper. 
V. CONCLUSION 
In recent years, blockchain technology has been widely 
used, and its fairness and reliability have created high value 
for related technical fields. The electricity-carbon market is a 
collaborative process between the electricity market and 
carbon market, which mainly focuses on green electricity, 
realizes the transformation of low carbon and dual control, and 
provides higher economic benefits for power enterprises. 
Therefore, this paper uses blockchain technology to design a 
joint trading platform for the electricity-carbon market, which 
can control the transaction cost in blocks and improve the 
economic value of power enterprises. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Zheng, S., Li, J., Chen, Y. (2022) An online second-hand car trading 
platform based on PHP technology under the Internet plus e-commerce 
framework. Practical Electronics, 30 (02): 39-41. 
[2] Zhao, B., Liu, X., Yang, T. (2022) The design and implementation of the 
campus second-hand idle goods trading platform based on WeChat 
applet. Computer Knowledge and Technology, 18 (21): 64-66. 
[3] Guan, H. (2022) The first prize winning thesis of the 2021 solicitation 
activity -- Research on the enterprise operation mode of the public 
resources and factor resources all factor trading platform. Tendering & 
Purchasing Management, (05): 22-26. 
[4] Zhang, C. (2022) Assisting urban green travel to build low-carbon 
municipal projects - the "PV+urban rail" model was successfully 
implemented through the property rights trading platform. Property 
Rights Guide, (02): 54-55. 
[5] Xiang, D., Zhou, R., Huang, Z. (2021) Research on key technologies of 
power market trading platform based on hybrid cloud computing 
platform. Journal of Shandong Agricultural University(Natural Science 
Edition), 52 (04): 704-708. 
[6] News from our magazine The National Development and Reform 
Commission and the National Forestry and Grassland Administration 
jointly issued the Forest Right Transaction Data Specification of the 
Public Resource Trading Platform System. Tendering & Purchasing 
Management, 2020 (08): 10. 
[7] Li, Y., Zhang, N., Du, E. (2022) Research on the response mechanism 
and benefit analysis of low carbon demand of power system based on 
carbon emission. Proceedings of the CSEE, 42 (08): 2830-2842. 
[8] Wang, C., Hou, B. (2022) Fuzzy market access policy: game, network 
structure and implementation mechanism -- an investigation based on 
policy implementation in the field of public resource trading. Journal of 
Beijing Administration Institute, (04): 1-8. 
[9] Li, X., Liu, Z., Yang, D. (2022) Power Market Efficiency Assessment 
and Carbon Market Price Design -- Conductivity Estimation from the 
Perspective of Electricity Carbon Market Correlation. China Industrial 
Economics, (01): 132-150. 
[10] Qin, B., Li, H., Zhang, Z. (2022) Electric power energy system 
supported by underground space: vision, challenges and prospects. 
Proceedings of the CSEE, 42 (04): 1321-1332. 
 
176
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:46:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.