Efficient Mobile Vehicle Data Sharing Scheme Based on Consortium Blockchain
Citation: Tian, Y.; Yang, C.; Yang, J.;
Nie, X. Efficient Mobile Vehicle Data
Sharing Scheme Based on
Consortium Blockchain. Appl. Sci.
2022, 12, 6152. https://doi.org/
10.3390/app12126152
Academic Editor: Gabriella Tognola
Received: 11 May 2022
Accepted: 14 June 2022
Published: 17 June 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
applied  
sciences
Article
Efficient Mobile Vehicle Data Sharing Scheme Based on
Consortium Blockchain
Yaping Tian 1, Chao Yang 2,* , Junjie Yang 2 and Xinming Nie 3,*
1 School of Kewen, Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou 221132, China; yaping_jslgedu@163.com
2 School of Automation, Guangdong University of Technology, Guangzhou 510006, China;
junjieyang@gdut.edu.cn
3 School of Physics and Electrical Engineering, Jiangsu Normal University, Xuzhou 221116, China
* Correspondence: yangchaoscut@aliyun.com (C.Y.); nxinming@jsnu.edu.cn (X.N.)
Abstract: Efficient data sharing schemes are one of the key technologies in the Internet of Vehicles
(IoV). However, the insufficient willingness of vehicle users to provide data makes the traditional
blockchain-based IoV network have low throughput. The income of IoV providers decreases when
the vehicle density increases on the road. In this paper, we investigated a mobile vehicle data sharing
scheme based on the consortium blockchain. In detail, the consortium blockchain was used to limit
the degree of decentralization and openness, and the optimal revenue strategy approach between
vehicles and data-demand devices was obtained through the Stackelberg game. The load test library
based on Node.js was used to simulate and compare the data transmission performance of the
proposed consortium blockchain with traditional blockchain schemes. Simulation results show that
the proposed scheme had higher buyer’s revenue, and the block transmission performance was
significantly higher than that of traditional blockchain schemes.
Keywords: IoV; consortium blockchain; Stackelberg game; data sharing
1. Introduction
With the development of autonomous driving, massive data will be generated during
vehicle movement, which will be collected and processed by scientific technologies and
sent to the relevant entities via the Internet of Vehicles (IoV), to meet the requirements of
driving model training or traffic management [1–4]. A moving vehicle on the road should
exchange sensing data with the roadside units and surrounding vehicles, especially when
the vehicle passes through intersections or the density of vehicles on the road is high. In
order to encourage vehicles on the road to participate in data sharing, the IoV powered by
blockchain is a suitable solution.
Nowadays, efficient data sharing in IoV has received widespread attention from
both academia and industry [5–11]. Ref. [5] studied mobile vehicles and built a sharing
framework covering data collection, management and other links, but its research results
did not involve the details of vehicle data sharing. Combined with user privacy protection
requirements, the authors in [6] introduced the concept of a trusted authority (TA) using
pseudonyms to enforce user privacy. However, that scheme is only applicable to parked
vehicles, not to mobile vehicles on the road that need data sharing, and the proposed
scheme cannot ensure real-time data sharing. Ref. [7] created a lightweight solution, the
core of which is the application of encryption technology to ensure that mobile vehicles will
not cause hidden problems in V2V data transmissions during data operation. In the process
of increasingly advancing blockchain technology, people introduced it into the research
field of data sharing in IoV. The authors in [8] developed a point trust mechanism based on
blockchain to support secure data transmission between vehicles. In detail, the IoV node
credit evaluation was completed to find and eliminate malicious nodes, which provides
a powerful guarantee for V2V communication. However, if the available resources of a
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152. https://doi.org/10.3390/app12126152 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci
https://doi.org/10.3390/app12126152
https://doi.org/10.3390/app12126152
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-0335-2517
https://doi.org/10.3390/app12126152
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/applsci
http://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/12/12/6152?type=check_update&version=2
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 2 of 14
single node are small, it is very expensive to build a public blockchain at this time, and
this solution is not ideal for large-scale IoV data sharing networks. Ref. [9] created a model
based on federated blockchain, which needs to meet specific privacy conditions to protect
vehicle privacy and provide a guarantee for information security sharing. In terms of cost,
this scheme is significantly superior to public blockchain. Ref. [10] proposed an interactive
security approach based on blockchain for electric vehicles.
However, the existing data sharing and transmission schemes for mobile vehicles in
IoV still have some problems, such as: privacy threats, transmission security risks and low
sharing efficiency. The traditional blockchain can be used in the IoV data sharing scheme,
but it will cause longer transaction confirmation times. To address these problems, we
propose an efficient data sharing scheme for mobile vehicles on the road based on the
consortium blockchain; the Stackelberg game is used to ensure data exchange efficiency
among vehicles. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
1. We design a mobile vehicle data security sharing model based on the
consortium blockchain.
2. The Stackelberg game is used to ensure data exchange efficiency between vehicles
(data sellers) and demand entities (data buyers, such as traffic scheduling centers
and autonomous driving companies). We adopt a special architecture to provide
sufficient security for privacy and data sharing of both, to improve the system data
transmission efficiency.
3. We conduct a set of simulations to show that the proposed data sharing scheme can
improve the data transmission efficiency and that the privacy of vehicles is guaranteed.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we describe the system
model, and in Section 3, the process of data sharing based on the consortium blockchain is
proposed. In Section 4, we present the problem formulation and solution algorithm. We
present the simulation analysis in Section 5. Finally, Section 6 contains the conclusion of
this paper presented.
2. System Model
2.1. System Model
The data sharing system model of IoV based on the consortium blockchain is shown
in Figure 1, which includes trusted authority (TA), moving vehicle (i.e., data seller), RSU,
and data demand entity (i.e., data buyer) [12]. TA is mainly responsible for the registration
and certification of entities, and a special government department is responsible for TA
authority and security. Any IoV entity that wants to be part of the sharing system (such as
mobile vehicles, traffic dispatching centers, autonomous driving companies) should first
register and obtain the TA’s access permission to join the network through issuance of a
digital certificate.
Normally, RSU performs as data agent to respond to requests for data purchases
and sales in the IoV. As shown in Figure 1, RSU is one of the consensus nodes of the
federated blockchain; the data sharing smart contract (DSSC) is used to control data
sharing. The communication between RSUs is referred to as R2R, which is mainly cable
connection. The data buyer to RSU communication is referred to as B2R, and it can
also be connected by wired connection. The mobile vehicle to RSU communication is
referred to as V2R, which is completed by satellite, wireless communication network,
4G/5G or other technologies [13,14]. Moving vehicles covered within a network area
are called data sellers. The data seller registers an account with TA, and this account
can be a non-real name, so as to protect the privacy of the vehicle owner. After account
registration is completed, the wallet function needs to be activated to store resource coins.
The mobile vehicle communicates with the RSU through the onboard unit (OBU). Moreover,
the data demand entity can be an enterprise or an institution, such as an autonomous
driving company, a traffic control center, etc. It plays the data buyer role in the entire
framework. Data originating from moving vehicles are obtained using the scheduling of
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 3 of 14
smart contracts deployed on the RSU. In addition, these data are used for a fee, paid through
resource coins.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 3 of 16 
 
 
Figure 1. Diagram of system model. 
Normally, RSU performs as data agent to respond to requests for data purchases and 
sales in the IoV. As shown in Figure 1, RSU is one of the consensus nodes of the federated 
blockchain; the data sharing smart contract (DSSC) is used to control data sharing. The 
communication between RSUs is referred to as R2R, which is mainly cable connection. 
The data buyer to RSU communication is referred to as B2R, and it can also be connected 
by wired connection. The mobile vehicle to RSU communication is referred to as V2R, 
which is completed by satellite, wireless communication network, 4G/5G or other tech-
nologies [13,14]. Moving vehicles covered within a network area are called data sellers. 
The data seller registers an account with TA, and this account can be a non-real name, so 
as to protect the privacy of the vehicle owner. After account registration is completed, the 
wallet function needs to be activated to store resource coins. The mobile vehicle communi-
cates with the RSU through the onboard unit (OBU). Moreover, the data demand entity 
can be an enterprise or an institution, such as an autonomous driving company, a traffic 
control center, etc. It plays the data buyer role in the entire framework. Data originating 
from moving vehicles are obtained using the scheduling of smart contracts deployed on 
the RSU. In addition, these data are used for a fee, paid through resource coins. 
2.2. Assumptions of the Data Sharing Model 
The operation of system model is based on certain assumptions, which are explained 
below: 
1. Figure 1 shows the details of the data exchange between different entities. The data 
demander and the RSU use cables to realize B2R communication, while the RSUs 
communicate with each other through R2R, which also requires cables. Since the RSU 
and the moving vehicles communicate with each other through V2R, we assume that 
there are a set of equally spaced RSUs deployed on the road, and the communicable 
range radius of the RSUs is described as RSUR . ( )jP t  represents the position of the 
RSU j , and ( )iP t  is the position of the moving vehicle i , when 
1 1|| ( ) ( ) ||RSU
i jP t P t R− −− > , 
1 1|| ( ) ( ) ||RSU
i jP t P t R− ≤  
2 2|| ( ) ( ) ||RSU
i jP t P t R− > , 
Figure 1. Diagram of system model.
2.2. Assumptions of the Data Sharing Model
The operation of system model is based on certain assumptions, which are
explained below:
1. Figure 1 shows the details of the data exchange between different entities. The data
demander and the RSU use cables to realize B2R communication, while the RSUs
communicate with each other through R2R, which also requires cables. Since the RSU
and the moving vehicles communicate with each other through V2R, we assume that
there are a set of equally spaced RSUs deployed on the road, and the communicable
range radius of the RSUs is described as RRSU . Pj(t) represents the position of the
RSU j, and Pi(t) is the position of the moving vehicle i, when∣∣∣∣∣∣Pi(t−1 )− Pj(t−1 ) > RRSU
∣∣∣∣∣∣,∣∣∣∣∣∣Pi(t1)− Pj(t1) ≤ RRSU
∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣∣Pi(t2)− Pj(t2) > RRSU
∣∣∣∣∣∣,
we set that the moving vehicle i and RSUj in t ∈ [t1, t2) produce a contact (here, ||.||
is Euclidean distance, t1 and t2 denote the time points before and after t), the vehicle
and the RSU establish a data link;
2. Divide the whole time duration into a series of time slots; the data sharing market for
vehicles is explored within a specific time period;
3. Regulate data sharing through smart contracts on RSU; the RSU is completely neutral
between buyers and sellers, but it will also give appropriate assistance when the
requests come from legal entities;
4. There are several data buyers and sellers active in each time slot. For the convenience
of research, only the data sharing activities of buyer and the seller managed by RSU
are discussed. Of course, other situations can also be represented by the proposed
system model;
5. We consider the shared price standard for all data to be unified. In addition, for the
buyer, the purpose of the data is to conduct traffic flow analysis, automatic driving
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 4 of 14
analysis training, etc. The larger the amount of data, the more accurate the analysis
results and the better the training effect that can be obtained.
3. Data Sharing Process
In this section, we explain the mobile vehicle data sharing process based on the
consortium blockchain, which is controlled by the DSSC in TA, as shown as Figure 2.
Specifically, we provide the details of block generation and link flow.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 4 of 16 
 
we set that the moving vehicle i  and jRSU  in 1 2[ , )t t t∈  produce a contact (here, 
|| . ||  is Euclidean distance, 1t  and 2t  denote the time points before and after t ), 
the vehicle and the RSU establish a data link; 
2. Divide the whole time duration into a series of time slots; the data sharing market for 
vehicles is explored within a specific time period; 
3. Regulate data sharing through smart contracts on RSU; the RSU is completely neutral 
between buyers and sellers, but it will also give appropriate assistance when the re-
quests come from legal entities; 
4. There are several data buyers and sellers active in each time slot. For the convenience 
of research, only the data sharing activities of buyer and the seller managed by RSU 
are discussed. Of course, other situations can also be represented by the proposed 
system model; 
5. We consider the shared price standard for all data to be unified. In addition, for the 
buyer, the purpose of the data is to conduct traffic flow analysis, automatic driving 
analysis training, etc. The larger the amount of data, the more accurate the analysis 
results and the better the training effect that can be obtained.  
3. Data Sharing Process 
In this section, we explain the mobile vehicle data sharing process based on the con-
sortium blockchain, which is controlled by the DSSC in TA, as shown as Figure 2. Specif-
ically, we provide the details of block generation and link flow.  
 
Figure 2. Data sharing process flow. 
1. System initialization 
Before becoming a system entity, each vehicle, RSU and data buyer should be regis-
tered with TA to obtain a legal and valid identity [15]. In the registration process, an asym-
metric elliptic curve encryption algorithm is used to initialize the system. The system gives 
the registrant a real identity ID  and a virtual identity VID Virtual ID（  ）, as well as a new 
wallet address WID Wallet ID（  ）. In addition, the system issues a special tuple, including 
the public key PK Public Key（  ）, private key SecSK ret Key（  ） and digital certificate 
(  )idCert Digital Certificate , to each entity. Moreover, the TA’s public key TAPK  also 
will be issued to all of the entities to ensure the security of the transmitted data. 
After the entity is successfully registered, it will obtain the current data information 
from the storage pool of the surrounding consortium blockchain nodes (i.e., RSU), and 
ensure the consistency of the entity and the system state to prevent errors caused by in-
formation differences between these two parties. In addition, the entity should remit a 
Figure 2. Data sharing process flow.
1. System initialization
Before becoming a system entity, each vehicle, RSU and data buyer should be reg-
istered with TA to obtain a legal and valid identity [15]. In the registration process, an
asymmetric elliptic curve encryption algorithm is used to initialize the system. The system
gives the registrant a real identity ID and a virtual identity VID(Virtual ID), as well as
a new wallet address WID(Wallet ID). In addition, the system issues a special tuple,
including the public key PK(Public Key), private key SK(Secret Key) and digital certificate
Certid(Digital Certi f icate), to each entity. Moreover, the TA’s public key PKTA also will be
issued to all of the entities to ensure the security of the transmitted data.
After the entity is successfully registered, it will obtain the current data information
from the storage pool of the surrounding consortium blockchain nodes (i.e., RSU), and
ensure the consistency of the entity and the system state to prevent errors caused by
information differences between these two parties. In addition, the entity should remit a
certain resource currency, that is, the deposit, into the account under the supervision of TA.
If the entity damages the system for its own benefit during sharing, it will be penalized in
the form of a fine. If the total number of malicious acts carried out by an entity reaches a
specified value, that entity will be ejected from the system and lose its legal status.
2. The data buyer initiates a data sharing request
Taking the data demand entity (i.e., the data buyer) bi numbered i as an example,
when it generates a vehicle data demand, it uses the cable B2R to release the request
Req
{
VIDi, Certi, time, pavg
}
to RSUj numbered j. Here, VIDi represents the virtual iden-
tity of bi, Certi is the digital certificate of bi. During the registration process of bi, TA
encrypts the public key of bi and other information with its own private key to form a
digital certificate; time represents the requested time slot; bi can use the data sharing system
to complete data transactions with mobile vehicles or data centers and enterprises, where
pavg represents the average price of transactions that have been completed by buyer bi and
other data suppliers.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 5 of 14
3. RSU acquires the buyer’s request and broadcasts it to moving vehicles within the
communication area
RSUj is responsible for obtaining the request from the buyer. When the buyer releases
the request to RSU within a certain time slot, the latter buyer send the request to all moving
vehicles in its communication area RRSU and obtains the feedback via V2R.
4. The mobile vehicle responds to the RSU
After the mobile vehicle sk (i.e., the data seller) obtains the request from RSUj success-
fully, it makes a decision about whether to trade or not based on its own CPU performance
and other aspects, and gives feedback to RSUj with the content Ans{VIDk, sign, time, Dk},
where VIDk represents the virtual identity of the mobile vehicle sk, sign is generally {yes,no},
which means willing/unwilling to trade. time means the time consumed to respond to
feedback. Dk is the upper limit of the data that vehicle sk can trade with bi. The condition
for it to be a non-zero value is that the value of sign is yes.
5. RSU plays the game and feeds back the results to both parties
After receiving the feedback from seller, RSUj calculates the equilibrium point through
the Stackelberg game and calculates the corresponding relationship between the most
suitable buyer’s bid and the amount of data that can be enjoyed. After this, both parties
receive the results from RSUj, where pi
∗ and dk
∗ both are the buyer’s bi unit of data that
should be bid and the total amount of data provided to bi via vehicle sk; time represents the
timestamp of the reply.
6. Data sharing and payment
After vehicle sk obtains the matching result of RSUj, it will de-duplicate and de-old
the data, and then transmit the processed data to RSUj. After that, a series of processing
steps such as de-duplication are completed using the data filter. If the result shows that the
data from vehicle sk contain duplicate, expired or harmful content, a certain penalty will be
deducted from the security deposit of the vehicle, penalizing sellers who offer worthless
or harmful data in pursuit of profit. Actually, if the vehicles send duplicated data to the
RSU, the data transmission efficiency will be affected directly, which is important for data
sharing in IoV.
After the buyer obtains the data successfully, the resource currency of p∗d∗ is retrieved
from the wallet and paid to the seller. At the end of this data transaction, a record is
generated in the memory pool of RSUj, which will be broadcasted across the entire network
and added to the block in subsequent links.
7. Block generation and linking to the blockchain
Aiming at the contention of accounting rights among different nodes, we formulated
the proof of work (POW) workload proof mechanism. Although it requires more resources,
it is more mature among consensus mechanisms and is immune to attacks such as double-
spending attacks and selfish mining attacks with a mining power below 51% [16,17]. The
steps of block generation and linking are shown in Figure 3.
Examination of Figure 3 reveals that the operation process of the POW mechanism is
as follows:
8. After RSU generates a data sharing record, it saves it in the memory pool and then
informs all RSU nodes. These nodes will also store the record after being notified. The
RSU fuses the data sharing records in the memory pool together to obtain a new block
during a time period;
9. All RSU nodes use the POW workload proof mechanism to compete for accounting
rights. The essence of the POW mechanism is to continuously adjust the input
value of a hash function to obtain the target value. In the block generation time
period, the RSU that obtains the qualified random number in the shortest time is the
accounting node;
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 6 of 14
10. The accounting node broadcasts its own block within the network range. After other
RSUs determine that the accounting node has obtained the qualified value, it will not
continue to calculate, and then verifies the latter’s block. The final verification result
will be reported to the accounting node in the form of “valid” or “invalid”;
11. The accounting node counts all notifications. When more than half of the notifications
are valid, it proves that the block is valid. At this time, the accounting node establishes
a connection between the block and the copy of the local consortium blockchain. It is
valid for all RSUs, which perform the same operation of establishing a connection;
12. After judging the block to be valid, the accounting node successfully “mines”. The
system will award resource coins, and in this way, it will be motivated to continue
“mining”. In addition, the accounting RSU retrieves the data sharing records contained
in the memory pool, identifies all of the mobile vehicles participating in the data
sharing, determines the degree of participation and reward resource coins, and directly
deposits coins in the vehicle’s wallet to encourage them to continue data sharing.
After the current round of consensus is completed, it will enter the next round.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 16 
 
offer worthless or harmful data in pursuit of profit. Actually, if the vehicles send dupli-
cated data to the RSU, the data transmission efficiency will be affected directly, which is 
important for data sharing in IoV. 
After the buyer obtains the data successfully, the resource currency of * *p d  is re-
trieved from the wallet and paid to the seller. At the end of this data transaction, a record 
is generated in the memory pool of jRSU , which will be broadcasted across the entire 
network and added to the block in subsequent links. 
7. Block generation and linking to the blockchain 
Aiming at the contention of accounting rights among different nodes, we formulated 
the proof of work (POW) workload proof mechanism. Although it requires more re-
sources, it is more mature among consensus mechanisms and is immune to attacks such 
as double-spending attacks and selfish mining attacks with a mining power below 51% 
[16,17]. The steps of block generation and linking are shown in Figure 3. 
 
Figure 3. Block generation and link flow chart. 
Examination of Figure 3 reveals that the operation process of the POW mechanism is 
as follows: 
8. After RSU generates a data sharing record, it saves it in the memory pool and then 
informs all RSU nodes. These nodes will also store the record after being notified. 
The RSU fuses the data sharing records in the memory pool together to obtain a new 
block during a time period;  
9. All RSU nodes use the POW workload proof mechanism to compete for accounting 
rights. The essence of the POW mechanism is to continuously adjust the input value 
of a hash function to obtain the target value. In the block generation time period, the 
RSU that obtains the qualified random number in the shortest time is the accounting 
node; 
10. The accounting node broadcasts its own block within the network range. After other 
RSUs determine that the accounting node has obtained the qualified value, it will not 
continue to calculate, and then verifies the latter’s block. The final verification result 
will be reported to the accounting node in the form of “valid” or “invalid”; 
Figure 3. Block generation and link flow chart.
4. Problem Formulation and Solving
In this section, we model and solve the game process in which the buyer unit data
should bid p and the seller should provide data volume d in the process.
4.1. Stackelberg Game Scheme Modeling
When the data buyer bi has a demand for mobile vehicle data, the buyer releases the
request Req
{
VIDi, Certi, time, pavg
}
for RSUj numbered j, through the analysis above.
pavg denotes the average price of bi buyer’s previous transactions with other sellers, con-
sidering that the transaction in this market is completely transparent, so the buyer can
not tender fictitious pavg. After RSUj sending the request to the mobile vehicle within its
communication range RRSU , when the number k of the mobile vehicle sk (the data seller)
has made a sharing decision, it will be answered Ans{VIDk, sign, time, Dk} for RSUj,
where Dk denotes the number of resources that the seller’s mobile vehicle sk needs to
provide. Through an analysis of previous works [12,17,18], Dk can be determined via sk.
The maximum amount of data, Dk can be related to the buyer’s bid directly, and it can also
be restricted by the CPU performance, the remaining electrical energy and other factors
of sk. We measure the inconvenience of sharing by the inconvenience parameter αk to the
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 7 of 14
vehicle. Based on the Stackelberg game method deployed by the smart contract DSSC in
RSUj, it determines the number of resources that the seller sk needs to provide, and the
unit data price that the buyer bi should actually pay. Then, it completes the derivation of
the game process.
Here, we use pi to indicate the unit data price that seller entity bi should pay. Then, to
help the seller sk determine the utility criteria, it should involve the following attributes of
the problem:
The higher the pi value, the utility of the seller becomes higher, which means more
substantial return. In addition, the higher the value of the inconvenience parameter αk, the
lower the utility of the seller.
The utility function Usk of the seller’s vehicle sk is the concave function of dk. First, if
dk is higher than a certain value, the utility function Usk is a non-decreasing function of dk,
because the larger the shared resource dk, the higher the return that the seller can obtain.
However, if the dk value is too high, the utility of the seller is reduced, because its resources
are limited, and it is difficult to guarantee the quality of service, such as accelerating the
loss of power and CPU performance.
To present the concaveness of the utility function, we set the function extreme value
point to be pi Dk
2αk
; these two parameters pi and Dk are positive correlations, but the relation-
ship between the inconvenience parameter αk is a negative correlation. Based on the above
analysis, we determine the seller’s utility function of sk as:
Usk (dk) = piDkdk − αkdk
2 (1)
Obviously, the above Equation (1) is a concave function with dk. There is a maximum
point of value pi Dk
2αk
, which can meet the setting conditions.
Next, we analyze the utility function for the buyer bi. The benefit that bi can obtain the
bid of the unit resource, that is, in the utility function of bi, the buyer bid is the independent
variable. To effectively reduce the cost of task execution, buyers bi want to reduce the
price of data. However, if the price for sellers is low enough to be unattractive, it is will be
difficult to achieve good performance gains. We use n to denote the vehicles that represent
the data transactions between the buyer bi and the buyer within the management range of
RSUj, and if the set of them constitutes {s1, s2, . . . , sn}, then the utility function of bi is:
Ubi
(pi) = ηi
n
∑
k=1
dk−βi pi
n
∑
k=1
dk (2)
where the total revenue ηi
n
∑
k=1
dk of bi is the buyer’s purchase of data from the vehicle n
within the management range of RSUj, and the income that the buyer bi can earn from the
unit data of the vehicle purchased.
The total cost βi pi
n
∑
k=1
dk of the transaction between the buyer bi and vehicle n shows
that the bid for all vehicles is exactly the same. According to the different amounts of
data used by each buyer, the cost and performance gains are fully considered before the
transaction, and the parameters βi are balanced.
In summary, to determine the buyer’s bid price pi and the amount of data with the
maximum utility function, we have:
max
dk
Usk (dk) = max
dk
(
piDkdk − αkdk
2
)
(3a)
Subject to:
dk ≤ Dk (3b)
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 8 of 14
In addition, given the amount of data dk that the seller sk is willing to trade, the
buyer bi determines the bid for the unit data based on the maximization of its utility
function (2), as:
max
pi
Ubi
(pi) = max
pi
(
ηi
n
∑
k=1
dk−βi pi
n
∑
k=1
dk
)
(4a)
Subject to
pi ≤ pavg (4b)
Through the above analysis, it can be seen that the average price pavg of transactions
made by the buyer bi and other sellers in the past, pi ≤ pavg means that the price at which
the agent and the vehicle are transacted does not exceed the average price.
4.2. Stackelberg Game Solution
This paper models the problem as a Stackelberg game, RSUj deployed on the DSSC
using the Stackelberg game to find the amount of data dk
∗ that the seller sk should supply
to the buyer bi and the final unit data bid pi
∗. It is a common leader–follower game
and includes both the follower’s decision and the leader’s decision. The model of the
Stackelberg game can be formally summarized as:
Γ = {(S, {bi}), {Dk}1≤k≤n , {Usk }1≤k≤n, pi, Ubi
}
(5)
In Equation (5), (S, {b}) is a set of all participants, the buyer bi is the leader, and the
set S contains all of the sellers who are followers, Dk is the strategy vector of sk. Usk is the
benefit function when sk provides dk quantities of data to bi, Ubi
is a function of the benefit
obtained by buying data for bi bids and pi. After the game is completed, it is possible
to determine the optimal value of the amount of data dk
∗ traded by the seller sk in the
transaction and the bid of bi the buyer’s final unit data pi
∗.
For the convenience of research, we divide the entire game process into two stages:
firstly, the buyer bi who plays the role of leader, RSUj defines the strategy of bi, that is, the
bid pi. Secondly, RSUj determines the seller’s strategy, the amount of data it is willing
to trade is mainly considered. For this game Γ, the purpose is to achieve Stackelberg
equilibrium, dk
∗ determines sk the maximum benefit and pi
∗ determine bi the greatest
benefit, which is defined as follows.
Definition 1. For Stackelberg game Γ, the strategy (dk
∗, pi
∗) meets the following conditions to
achieve Stackelberg equilibrium:
Usk (dk
∗, pi
∗) ≥ Usk (dk, d−k
∗, pi
∗)
Ubi (dk
∗, pi
∗) ≥ Ubi (dk
∗, pi)
(6)
where dk
∗ is the strategy set of all sellers that sk are not included. In the game Γ , when bi bid pi
∗
determined, the seller sk can obtain the most considerable benefit in the case of sharing dk
∗ data, so
the amount of shared data cannot be adjusted to improve the seller’s income by RSUj. In addition,
in the case of sk shared dk
∗ data, the buyer bi earns the most considerable income pi
∗, and even if
the bid strategy is adjusted, it cannot improve the income.
4.2.1. Problem Analysis
Lemma 1. The Stackelberg game Γ has and only has a Stackelberg equilibrium point.
Proof. First argue that the Stackelberg equilibrium of the seller exists. In the second stage of
the game, RSUj know that the seller needs to trade the amount of data Usk , it can obtain the
highest benefit. The second derivative of Usk derived from Equation (1) is U′′ sk = −2αk < 0
(αk > 0). Thus, Usk is a strictly concave function of dk. There is a maximum value of Usk
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 9 of 14
relative to dk. Therefore, for any offer pi, the seller can find the best solution that exists only
if it is proven.
Secondly, the Stackelberg equilibrium for the argument buyer exists. After the sec-
ond stage, the buyer’s strategy is determined. For the determined offer pi, based on
Formula (7), RSUj determines sk and the seller’s shared data dk amount, which means that
the point that dk makes the quadratic function Usk extreme, the first derivative is zero, as:
∂Usk
∂dk
= 0 (7)
Considering dk ≤ Dk, the seller’s best decision is given as:
dk
∗ = min
{
piDk
2αk
, Dk
}
(8)
After determining the value of dk, according to the buyer’s utility function (2),
we have:
Ubi
(pi) = ηi
n
∑
k=1
dk
∗−βi pi
n
∑
k=1
dk
∗ (9)
Make the obtained derivative dk
∗ to the above equation, and calculate the second
derivative U′′ bi
≤ 0 of Ubi
(pi), then, the function image Ubi
(pi) will definitely be convex.
Therefore, there is a maximum point, which can be derived as a strict concave function Ubi
of pi. The RSUj can determine the best bid pi
∗ that the buyer has and only based on the
seller’s strategy.
It can be seen that the game Γ strategy of the DSSC on RSUj ensures the existence of
the Stackelberg equilibrium point. �
4.2.2. Algorithms for Achieving Stackelberg Equalization
This section creates an algorithm based on ternary search, to ensure both parties can
reach the equilibrium point. In detail, since the buyer’s bid must not exceed the historical
average price pavg, we select four points in the range between 0 and pavg:L, R, pmid, pmidmid
and there are:
L = 0, R = pavg, pmid =
L + R
2
, pmidmid =
pmid + R
2
(10)
The execution steps of the algorithm are:
1. Based on the buyer’s bid pmid, use Formula (8) to find the optimal decision dk
∗ of
RSUj each seller’s vehicle, and then, based on the decision set {d1
∗, d2
∗, . . . , dn
∗} of
all sellers and the buyer’s bid pmid, the buyer’s benefit function Ubi
can be calculated.
For the sake of convenience and differentiation, we use Ubi
, which represents the
value of the benefit function in the case of the bid pmid from the buyer;
2. According to the buyer’s bid pmid, we find the seller’s decision set and the buyer’s
benefit, using
..
Ubi
, which represents the buyer’s benefit;
3. Determine the relationship with the size of
..
Ubi
and
..
Ubi
; if
.
Ubi
>
..
Ubi
, the upper limit
of Ubi
appears in the L to pmidmid interval, the interval is reduced, and R = pmidmid.
Otherwise, the upper limit of Ubi
appears in the interval from pmid to R, the interval is
reduced, and L = pmid.
Repeat until the difference between L and R the minimum unit τ of the price becomes
small enough. Considering Ubi
is a true concave function, the algorithm ternary search
should be able to find the bid pi
∗ that Ubi
is capped. Based on the buyer’s bid pi
∗, each
seller determines the amount of resources dk
∗ it provides to achieve the most substantial
benefits. The cycle continues until the buyer’s bid cannot be further divided, and both
parties to the transaction achieve an equilibrium point. That is to realize simultaneously sk
seller’s optimal shared data volume dk
∗ and pi buyer’s optimal bid pi
∗.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 10 of 14
5. Simulation Analysis
In this section, we simulate and analyze the Stackelberg game and consortium
blockchain framework with MATLAB2016A to determine the performance level of the
proposed schemes.
5.1. Performance Analysis of the Stackelberg Game Solution Scheme
5.1.1. Simulation Setting
Considering IEEE 802.11p communication protocol is used in the IoV, including the
V2V and V2R, the transmission distance of RSU does not exceed 1000 m [19] RR= 1000 m.
Thus, the simulation network area is set as 600 m × 600 m, with five equally spaced roads
from east–west and north–south, all in four lanes. Considering that in the IEEE 802.11p
communication protocol followed by the RSU, the transmission distance does not exceed
1000 m [19] RR = 1000 m. To evaluate the Stackelberg game solution scheme performance,
the proposed BCB scheme and the following two baseline schemes are analyzed, as:
1. SPRS (Set Price by Response Time Scheme): After the RSU sends the request from
the buyer to the vehicle, the shorter the feedback time of the vehicle giving priority to
trade with the buyer, and the buyer tends to purchase all the data provided by it D.
The shorter the vehicle feedback time, the higher the unit price of the data, and the
price can be obtained. Prices can be determined by PSPRS =
µpavg
tans
. Here, µ represents
the coefficient of adjusting the price, tans is the response time of vehicle. Under the
scheme, when the seller tends to give feedback faster, the buyer can obtain the data
in a shorter time period. In the process of simulation analysis, the response time of
the vehicle is set randomly to imitate the feedback situation of each vehicle, which is
more consistent with reality;
2. POS (Purchase from Other Data Providers Scheme): The buyer trades the data at
the market price pavg directly, with other institutions.
5.1.2. Simulation Analysis
In this section, we first simulate the performance of the Stackelberg game algorithm in
a buyer case, that is, when the buyer bi releases requests to a nearby RSU in a time slot.
1. The relationship between the bi maximum amount of data and bi income that the
seller is willing to sell to the buyer.
Assuming that in the network area, the number of mobile vehicles n = 50, and they are
willing to share with the bi buyer. Set the bi price for purchasing 128M data from other data
institutions as pavg = 0.5RC (RC represents resource currency units), and the income that
the buyer can receive as ηi = 1RC/128M the balance parameters βi = 1, the inconvenience
parameters α of all vehicles are randomly distributed within [0, 0.5], the τ minimum unit
value of the price is 0.01RC. In addition, assuming that the maximum amount of data that
each vehicle is sharing is Dk, k ∈ [0, n], and the data they are willing to sell is consistent, it
is a dead core D1 = D2 = . . . = Dn, and Dk does not exceed the range of [1 GB, 6 GB].
Each scheme performs 50 simulations, with the average as the final value, thus en-
abling a convincing simulation analysis of the data sharing for each vehicle in various
traffic environments. First, the simulation of the BCB scheme is completed, and the total
amount of data purchased by the bi buyer can be obtained. Then, the total data amounts
purchased by the other two schemes are the same as that of the BCB scheme, and on that
basis, the buyer’s incomes under three sets of schemes are compared. In the Dk process
of continuous change, the income fluctuations of the buyers under the three schemes are
shown in Figure 4.
Figure 4 shows that in the process of continuously increasing the maximum data
Dk, k ∈ [0, n] amount shared by the vehicle to the bi buyer, the benefit of the buyer shows a
trend of increase in all schemes. The reason is that Dk in the improvement process, buyers
can obtain more data, and earn considerably more income. In addition, when the data
purchased by the buyer are consistent, compared with the baseline schemes SPRS and POS,
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 11 of 14
the BCB scheme can bring higher returns to the buyer. The reason is that the BCB scheme
can better balance between the buyer’s bid and the seller’s shared data volume, and the
buyer can obtain more considerable returns based on reasonable bidding.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 12 of 16 
 
Assuming that in the network area, the number of mobile vehicles 50=n , and they 
are willing to share with the ib  buyer. Set the ib  price for purchasing 128M data from 
other data institutions as 0.5=avgp RC  (RC represents resource currency units), and the 
income that the buyer can receive as 1 /128η =i RC M  the balance parameters βi = 1, the 
inconvenience parametersα  of all vehicles are randomly distributed within [0, 0.5], the
τ  minimum unit value of the price is 0.01RC. In addition, assuming that the maximum 
amount of data that each vehicle is sharing is , [0, ]∈kD k n , and the data they are willing 
to sell is consistent, it is a dead core 1 2 ...= = = nD D D , and 
kD
 does not exceed the range 
of [1 GB, 6 GB]. 
Each scheme performs 50 simulations, with the average as the final value, thus ena-
bling a convincing simulation analysis of the data sharing for each vehicle in various traf-
fic environments. First, the simulation of the BCB scheme is completed, and the total 
amount of data purchased by the bi buyer can be obtained. Then, the total data amounts 
purchased by the other two schemes are the same as that of the BCB scheme, and on that 
basis, the buyer’s incomes under three sets of schemes are compared. In the Dk process of 
continuous change, the income fluctuations of the buyers under the three schemes are 
shown in Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4. The impact of the most data provided by vehicle to the buyer’s benefit. 
Figure 4 shows that in the process of continuously increasing the maximum data
, [0, ]kD k n∈  amount shared by the vehicle to the ib  buyer, the benefit of the buyer 
shows a trend of increase in all schemes. The reason is that kD  in the improvement pro-
cess, buyers can obtain more data, and earn considerably more income. In addition, when 
the data purchased by the buyer are consistent, compared with the baseline schemes SPRS 
and POS, the BCB scheme can bring higher returns to the buyer. The reason is that the 
BCB scheme can better balance between the buyer’s bid and the seller’s shared data vol-
ume, and the buyer can obtain more considerable returns based on reasonable bidding. 
2. The impact of vehicle density on buyers’ income 
Figure 4. The impact of the most data provided by vehicle to the buyer’s benefit.
2. The impact of vehicle density on buyers’ income
Assume that the number of vehicles in the 600 m × 600 m network area continuously
varies within the [50, 300] range, and Dk, k ∈ [0, n] the maximum amount of data each seller
is willing to provide the bi buyer is [2 GB, 3 GB], the data amount Dk is close to reality,
taking different values, and the remaining parameters are consistent with the previous
simulations. Assuming the same data purchase volume of bi buyers under the three sets of
schemes, 50 simulations are completed with the average as the final results. Figure 5 shows
the fluctuation of buyer benefits under each scheme.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 16 
 
Assume that the number of vehicles in the 600 m × 600 m network area continuously 
varies within the [50, 300] range, and , [0, ]kD k n∈  the maximum amount of data each 
seller is willing to provide the ib  buyer is [2 GB, 3 GB], the data amount kD  is close to 
reality, taking different values, and the remaining parameters are consistent with the pre-
vious simulations. Assuming the same data purchase volume of ib  buyers under the 
three sets of schemes, 50 simulations are completed with the average as the final results. 
Figure 5 shows the fluctuation of buyer benefits under each scheme. 
 
Figure 5. The impact of vehicle density on the buyer’s benefit. 
Figure 5 shows that in the process of continuous improvement in vehicle density, the 
buyer’s income basically maintains rising momentum. The reason is that the more data 
the buyer can obtain, the higher the satisfaction of its demand and the higher the benefit. 
However, in the case of 200 vehicles, the benefit of the buyer’s price in all schemes is re-
duced, because the value in the BCB scheme kD  is within the [2 GB, 3 GB] range, and it 
is randomly selected. In the case of 200 vehicles, the amount of data that the vehicle is 
willing to sell is not much, so the total data available to the buyer is less, and the benefit 
does not increase and decrease.  
Overall, the BCB scheme is higher for the buyers, but the revenue of the SPRS scheme 
at 100 exceeds the BCB scheme. The reason is that in the SPRS scheme, the response time 
of vehicles is a random value. When the number of vehicles becomes 100, the overall re-
sponse time of vehicles in the network becomes long. In this case, the overall bid of the 
buyer is low, the total cost of buying the same data is lower, and the buyer indirectly 
improves the benefit, which is the reason for the higher income of the buyer in the SPRS 
scheme. However, this is a special case, in which the number of vehicles and shared data 
continue to increase; after repeated simulation and calculating the average value, the 
probability of this special case is greatly reduced. In summary, the BCB scheme has sig-
nificant advantages in terms of overall performance. 
3. Impact of the inconvenience parameters α  on the buyer’s benefit and cost 
The following will study the relationship between the buyer’s inconvenience sharing 
parameters α  and the buyer benefit and cost in the BCB scheme. Assuming consistent 
α  values for the whole vehicle, fluctuating in the range of [0.04, 0.32], the presence of 50 
random vehicles on the 600 m × 600 m network area roads, offer 0.5avgp RC= , 
1 /i RC GBη = , balance parameters, 1iβ = , the maximum data that all vehicles are willing 
Figure 5. The impact of vehicle density on the buyer’s benefit.
Figure 5 shows that in the process of continuous improvement in vehicle density, the
buyer’s income basically maintains rising momentum. The reason is that the more data
the buyer can obtain, the higher the satisfaction of its demand and the higher the benefit.
However, in the case of 200 vehicles, the benefit of the buyer’s price in all schemes is
reduced, because the value in the BCB scheme Dk is within the [2 GB, 3 GB] range, and it is
randomly selected. In the case of 200 vehicles, the amount of data that the vehicle is willing
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 12 of 14
to sell is not much, so the total data available to the buyer is less, and the benefit does not
increase and decrease.
Overall, the BCB scheme is higher for the buyers, but the revenue of the SPRS scheme
at 100 exceeds the BCB scheme. The reason is that in the SPRS scheme, the response time of
vehicles is a random value. When the number of vehicles becomes 100, the overall response
time of vehicles in the network becomes long. In this case, the overall bid of the buyer
is low, the total cost of buying the same data is lower, and the buyer indirectly improves
the benefit, which is the reason for the higher income of the buyer in the SPRS scheme.
However, this is a special case, in which the number of vehicles and shared data continue to
increase; after repeated simulation and calculating the average value, the probability of this
special case is greatly reduced. In summary, the BCB scheme has significant advantages in
terms of overall performance.
The following will study the relationship between the buyer’s inconvenience shar-
ing parameters α and the buyer benefit and cost in the BCB scheme. Assuming consis-
tent α values for the whole vehicle, fluctuating in the range of [0.04, 0.32], the presence
of 50 random vehicles on the 600 m × 600 m network area roads, offer pavg = 0.5RC,
ηi = 1RC/GB, balance parameters, βi = 1, the maximum data that all vehicles are willing
to provide is Dk consistent and equal to 2 GB. To ensure that the data meet the general
requirements, 50 simulations are completed, with the average as the final result, drawing
the buyer income fluctuation map in the POS scheme with the same amount of purchase
data. The simulation results are detailed in Figure 6.
3. Impact of the inconvenience parameters α on the buyer’s benefit and cost
Figure 6 shows that during the α continuous improvement of the BCB parameters,
the buyer’s income in the BCB scheme continues to decrease, while the cost shows the
opposite trend. The root cause is that when the seller is under the influence of various
factors, the buyer will increase the bid and enhance the seller’s tendency to share, so that
the buyer needs to bear higher costs, and the benefits will be affected. In addition, in the
POS scheme, the α income is also negatively correlated, because we assume the same data
purchase volume under the two sets in the simulation analysis. In the α of raising the case,
the data purchase volume in BCB and POS scheme decreases, and the buyer benefit and
data purchase volume of the POS scheme are positively correlated, so the income in the
buyer’s scheme is also reduced.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 16 
 
to provide is kD  consistent and equal to 2 GB. To ensure that the data meet the general 
requirements, 50 simulations are completed, with the average as the final result, drawing 
the buyer income fluctuation map in the POS scheme with the same amount of purchase 
data. The simulation results are detailed in Figure 6. 
 
Figure 6. Influence of inconvenient parameter α on buyer’s benefit and cost. 
Figure 6 shows that during the α  continuous improvement of the BCB parameters, 
the buyer’s income in the BCB scheme continues to decrease, while the cost shows the 
opposite trend. The root cause is that when the seller is under the influence of various 
factors, the buyer will increase the bid and enhance the seller’s tendency to share, so that 
the buyer needs to bear higher costs, and the benefits will be affected. In addition, in the 
POS scheme, the α  income is also negatively correlated, because we assume the same 
data purchase volume under the two sets in the simulation analysis. In the α  of raising 
the case, the data purchase volume in BCB and POS scheme decreases, and the buyer ben-
efit and data purchase volume of the POS scheme are positively correlated, so the income 
in the buyer’s scheme is also reduced. 
5.2. Performance Analysis of the Consortium Blockchain Framework 
The results of a comparison of consortium blockchain with traditional blockchain are 
shown in Figure 7. The consortium blockchain framework uses Hyperledger Fabric to 
write smart contracts of blockchain. In this paper, 10 peering points (each peer adopts x64 
virtual machine simulation) are compared to 10 RSU to conduct simulation and analysis. 
Based on Node.js, the load test library completes the scheme test. It is assumed that 200 
cars in the covered area perform as data sellers, and they all have a certain willingness to 
share the data. The number of buyers is 50. The other parameters are exactly consistent 
with the previous simulation parameters. 
Figure 6. Influence of inconvenient parameter α on buyer’s benefit and cost.
5.2. Performance Analysis of the Consortium Blockchain Framework
The results of a comparison of consortium blockchain with traditional blockchain are
shown in Figure 7. The consortium blockchain framework uses Hyperledger Fabric to write
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 13 of 14
smart contracts of blockchain. In this paper, 10 peering points (each peer adopts x64 virtual
machine simulation) are compared to 10 RSU to conduct simulation and analysis. Based
on Node.js, the load test library completes the scheme test. It is assumed that 200 cars in
the covered area perform as data sellers, and they all have a certain willingness to share
the data. The number of buyers is 50. The other parameters are exactly consistent with the
previous simulation parameters.
According to the analysis of Figure 7, the average transaction confirmation time of a
block in the BCB scheme is basically not more than 10 to 15 min, while this index in the
traditional blockchain is about 60 min [20]. The proposed scheme can confirm the block
more efficiently. The reason is that from the perspective of BCB, it only completes the
blockchain block consensus between the RSUs, avoiding the consensus of the traditional
blockchain on all of the connected nodes. Moreover, in the BCB scheme, the number
of consensus nodes is strictly limited, so the network throughput has been significantly
improved. Block can be confirmed in a shorter time. Based on the proposed mode, the
nodes can reach a consensus more efficiently and effectively shorten the waiting time. The
efficiency of the consortium blockchain framework is ensured.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 16 
 
 
Figure 7. Comparison of block transmission performance.  
According to the analysis of Figure 7, the average transaction confirmation time of a 
block in the BCB scheme is basically not more than 10 to 15 min, while this index in the 
traditional blockchain is about 60 min [20]. The proposed scheme can confirm the block 
more efficiently. The reason is that from the perspective of BCB, it only completes the 
blockchain block consensus between the RSUs, avoiding the consensus of the traditional 
blockchain on all of the connected nodes. Moreover, in the BCB scheme, the number of 
consensus nodes is strictly limited, so the network throughput has been significantly im-
proved. Block can be confirmed in a shorter time. Based on the proposed mode, the nodes 
can reach a consensus more efficiently and effectively shorten the waiting time. The effi-
ciency of the consortium blockchain framework is ensured. 
6. Conclusions 
In this paper, a mobile vehicle data sharing scheme based on consortium blockchain 
was designed to build a decentralized data sharing system framework. The data transac-
tion time in the system can be reduced, and the entity security of vehicles and RSUs is 
ensured. In addition, we proposed an optimal revenue strategy approach between vehi-
cles and data-demanding devices through the Stackelberg game. The amounts of the op-
timal buyer’s bid and seller’s available data are determined, which effectively maximizes 
the benefits of both transaction sides. Finally, the performances of the BCB scheme, SPRS 
and POS scheme were simulated and compared, and a performance comparison between 
the consortium blockchain framework and traditional blockchain was also presented. 
Simulation results show that the proposed BCB scheme has a higher level of performance. 
On the premise of protecting entity privacy and data security, the data of mobile vehicles 
can be shared with buyers more quickly. 
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Y.T. and J.Y.; Funding acquisition, C.Y.; Method-
ology, And X.N.; Project administration, J.Y.; Writing—Original draft, Y.T.; Writing—Re-
view & editing, C.Y. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. 
Funding: This research was funded in part by General project of philosophy and social science re-
search in Colleges and universities of Jiangsu Province under Grant 2020SJA1023; in part by the 
2021 University Philosophy and Social Science Research Fund Project of Jiangsu Province under 
Grant 2021SJA2413; in part by Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62003101; in part 
by the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research foundation under Grant 2022A1515010181.  
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.  
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.  
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.  
Conflicts of Interest:  The authors declare no conflict of interest.  
Figure 7. Comparison of block transmission performance.
6. Conclusions
In this paper, a mobile vehicle data sharing scheme based on consortium blockchain
was designed to build a decentralized data sharing system framework. The data transaction
time in the system can be reduced, and the entity security of vehicles and RSUs is ensured.
In addition, we proposed an optimal revenue strategy approach between vehicles and data-
demanding devices through the Stackelberg game. The amounts of the optimal buyer’s
bid and seller’s available data are determined, which effectively maximizes the benefits of
both transaction sides. Finally, the performances of the BCB scheme, SPRS and POS scheme
were simulated and compared, and a performance comparison between the consortium
blockchain framework and traditional blockchain was also presented. Simulation results
show that the proposed BCB scheme has a higher level of performance. On the premise of
protecting entity privacy and data security, the data of mobile vehicles can be shared with
buyers more quickly.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Y.T. and J.Y.; Funding acquisition, C.Y.; Methodology,
And X.N.; Project administration, J.Y.; Writing—Original draft, Y.T.; Writing—Review & editing, C.Y.
All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded in part by General project of philosophy and social science
research in Colleges and universities of Jiangsu Province under Grant 2020SJA1023; in part by the
2021 University Philosophy and Social Science Research Fund Project of Jiangsu Province under
Grant 2021SJA2413; in part by Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 62003101; in part by
the Guangdong Basic and Applied Basic Research foundation under Grant 2022A1515010181.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Appl. Sci. 2022, 12, 6152 14 of 14
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Lv, Z.; Qiao, L.; Hossain, M.S.; Choi, B.J. Analysis of Using Blockchain to Protect the Privacy of Drone Big Data. IEEE Netw. 2021,
35, 44–49. [CrossRef]
2. Yang, Q.; Zhu, B.; Wu, S. An architecture of cloud-assisted information dissemination in vehicular networks. IEEE Access 2016, 4,
2764–2770. [CrossRef]
3. Guru, D.; Perumal, S.; Varadarajan, V. Approaches towards Blockchain Innovation: A Survey and Future Directions. Electronics
2021, 10, 1219. [CrossRef]
4. Peng, C.; Wu, C.; Gao, L.; Zhang, J.; Yau, K.A.; Ji, Y. Blockchain for Vehicular Internet of Things: Recent Advances and Open
Issues. Sensors 2020, 20, 5079. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
5. Li, C.; Fu, Y.; Yu, F.R.; Luan, T.H.; Zhang, Y. Vehicle Position Correction: A Vehicular Blockchain Networks-Based GPS Error
Sharing Framework. IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst. 2021, 22, 898–912. [CrossRef]
6. Rongxing, L.; Xiaodong, L.; Xuemin, S. SPRING: A social-based privacy-preserving packet forwarding protocol for vehicular
delay tolerant networks. In Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM, San Diego, CA, USA, 14–19 March 2010; pp. 1–9.
7. Verma, M.; Huang, D. SeGCom: Secure group communication in VANETs. In Proceedings of the 2009 6th IEEE Consumer
Communications and Networking Conference, Las Vegas, NV, USA, 10–13 January 2009; pp. 1–5.
8. Singh, M.; Kim, S. Trust bit: Reward-based intelligent vehicle commination using blockchain paper. In Proceedings of the 2018
IEEE 4th World Forum on Internet of Things (WF-IoT), Singapore, 5–8 February 2018; pp. 62–67.
9. Ming, Y.; Cheng, H. Efficient certificateless conditional privacy-preserving authentication scheme in VANETs. Mob. Inf. Syst.
2019, 2019, 7593138. [CrossRef]
10. Liu, H.; Zhang, Y.; Yang, T. Blockchain-enabled security in electric vehicles cloud and edge computing. IEEE Netw. 2018, 32,
78–83. [CrossRef]
11. Zhu, J.; Xu, W. Real-Time Data Filling and Automatic Retrieval Algorithm of Road Traffic Based on Deep-Learning Method.
Symmetry 2021, 13, 1. [CrossRef]
12. Kang, J.; Yu, R.; Huang, X.; Maharjan, S.; Zhang, Y.; Hossain, E. Enabling Localized Peer-to-Peer Electricity Trading among Plug-in
Hybrid Electric Vehicles Using Consortium Blockchains. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inform. 2017, 13, 3154–3164. [CrossRef]
13. Lal, N.; Kumar, S.; Chaurasiya, V.K. A Road Monitoring Approach with Real-Time Capturing of Events for Efficient Vehicles
Safety in Smart City. Wirel. Pers. Commun. 2020, 114, 657–674. [CrossRef]
14. Cheng, X.; Huang, Z.; Chen, S. Vehicular communication channel measurement, modeling, and application for beyond 5G and
6G. IET Commun. 2020, 14, 3303–3311. [CrossRef]
15. Wang, Q.; Zhao, H.; Wang, Q.; Cao, H.; Aujla, G.S.; Zhu, H. Enabling secure wireless multimedia resource pricing using
consortium blockchains. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2020, 110, 696–707. [CrossRef]
16. Wu, Q.; Hao, J.K. A clique-based exact method for optimal winner determination in combinatorial auctions. Inf. Sci. 2016, 334,
103–121. [CrossRef]
17. Feng, Q.; He, D.; Zeadally, S.; Khan, M.K.; Kumar, N. A survey on privacy protection in blockchain system. J. Netw. Comput. Appl.
2018, 126, 45–58. [CrossRef]
18. Pappalardo, G.; Cafiso, S.; Di Graziano, A.; Severino, A. Decision Tree Method to Analyze the Performance of Lane Support
Systems. Sustainability 2021, 13, 846. [CrossRef]
19. Jiang, Y.; Shen, X.; Zheng, S. An Effective Data Sharing Scheme Based on Blockchain in Vehicular Social Networks. Electronics
2021, 10, 114. [CrossRef]
20. Xu, C.; Zhu, K.; Yi, C.; Wang, R. Data Pricing for Blockchain-based Car Sharing: A Stackelberg Game Approach. In Proceeding of
the GLOBECOM 2020—2020 IEEE Global Communications Conference, Taipei, Taiwan, 7–11 December 2021; pp. 1–5.
http://doi.org/10.1109/MNET.011.2000154
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2016.2572206
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10101219
http://doi.org/10.3390/s20185079
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32906707
http://doi.org/10.1109/TITS.2019.2961400
http://doi.org/10.1155/2019/7593138
http://doi.org/10.1109/MNET.2018.1700344
http://doi.org/10.3390/sym13010001
http://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2017.2709784
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11277-020-07386-z
http://doi.org/10.1049/iet-com.2020.0531
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.09.026
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2015.11.029
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2018.10.020
http://doi.org/10.3390/su13020846
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics10020114
	Introduction 
	System Model 
	System Model 
	Assumptions of the Data Sharing Model 
	Data Sharing Process 
	Problem Formulation and Solving 
	Stackelberg Game Scheme Modeling 
	Stackelberg Game Solution 
	Problem Analysis 
	Algorithms for Achieving Stackelberg Equalization 
	Simulation Analysis 
	Performance Analysis of the Stackelberg Game Solution Scheme 
	Simulation Setting 
	Simulation Analysis 
	Performance Analysis of the Consortium Blockchain Framework 
	Conclusions 
	References