Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain for Sustainable Energy Efficiency
Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake
Mining in Blockchain for Sustainable
Energy Efficiency
Nitin K. Tyagi, Mukta Goyal, and Adarsh Kumar
Abstract Blockchain is termed as a ledger which is immutable and transactions
will be occurred and stored in decentralized network. There are various types of
application which are using blockchain technology such as financial services, supply
chain, and Internet of things (IoT). However, there are still many shortcomings in
blockchain technology such as scalability and fair play among the miners. This
paper suggests a game theory-based effective reward distribution and punishing the
bad miners who are exploiting the networks for their own profit maximization, hence
to increase fair play in the blockchain which may turn in increase the participation of
more loyalminers and also increase themining rate of the blocks. The technique proof
of stake-based mining approach using game theory is used for effective sustainable
energy efficiency.
Keywords Blockchain · Consensus · Proof of stake · Proof of work · Energy
efficiency ·Mining · Game theory
1 Introduction
Blockchain is a distributed immutable hyperledger that stores any sort of entry like
ledger does; in other words, its basic functionality is record-keeping. The record
must be immutable unlike traditional ledgers. Blockchain contains various features
that help in making it immutable. One of the feature is SHA-256 function that is used
to calculate the hash value of the block. Storing hash value of previous block is one
of the main features in making blockchain immutable. Apart from these two, there
N. K. Tyagi (B)
National Informatics Centre (NIC), Government of India, New Delhi 110003, India
M. Goyal
Jaypee Institute of Information Technology (JIIT), Noida, Uttar Pradesh 201309, India
A. Kumar
Department of Systemics, University of Petroleum and Energy Studies (UPES), Dehradun,
Uttrakhand 248007, India
e-mail: adarsh.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2022
G. Sanyal et al. (eds.), International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Sustainable
Engineering, Lecture Notes in Electrical Engineering 837,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-8546-0_11
121
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-16-8546-0_11&domain=pdf
mailto:adarsh.kumar@ddn.upes.ac.in
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-16-8546-0_11
122 N. K. Tyagi et al.
are many more features that makes blockchain immutable and hack-proof like proof
of work, block index, public and private keys for making validating transactions and
on the top consensus [1] that blockchain follows, i.e., storing longest chain of the
blockchain contained in more than 51% of the total nodes present in the blockchain.
The record-keeping system of blockchain is not brought together; rather, it is
appropriated, i.e., every hub in the system contains a duplicate of the blockchain,
thus it develops as the most significant component in blockchain making it misrep-
resentation verification. Presently, a developer not just needs to make changes in
an exchange, yet he needs to change every single future square connected to that
square in order to keep up the hash esteems. However, now he needs to roll out that
improvement in 51% of all out hubs in this dispersed system that is an unthink-
able task. Appropriate and effective prizes framework is to be kept up for legitimate
and equivalent dispersion of remunerations. Different assaults are being investigated
remembering how they affect the security and privacy of transactions.
There is onemore threat that is poolwars, whereminers use their hash rates in such
away that theywill increase their efficiency by decreasing their opponent’s efficiency,
and this refers to the term game theory in blockchain. As,mining requires cooperative
process and oneminer requires fair play from the otherminers because if otherminers
are playing unfairly, then it will lead inwasting of our blockchain’s overall hash rates;
hence, blockswillmined late, and also, it will lead into centralization of blockchain as
now amining pool can control what transactions would be included. They canmutate
the transactions too, and hence, game theory in blockchain becomes the hottest topic
nowadays. Referring to this condition, game theory is implemented in blockchain
and implemented such incentive distributing policies that will keep the miners play
fairly and hence be in Nash equilibrium.
Any mining node maliciously mines an invalid new block arises main issue. The
main problem is fighting against the miner. There are many types of methods that
help in such attack and the most known such type of attack is double spending.
Double spending is possible if most of the hash rates are possessed by the fraud
miners, and they can use it to mine blocks in their favor. Hence, implementing such
an incentivization scheme in the blockchain using game theory promotes fair play
among the miners and will not only encourages more participation of loyal miners
in the blockchain but also increases decentralization in our blockchain and will
reduce the mining rate of blocks. The increase of participation of more nodes in the
blockchainwill increase decentralization andwould in turn increase the immutability
of records and will gain more trust among the users. Hence, this paper proposes an
efficient mining technique using game theory in blockchain.
2 Literature Review and Related Work
Blockchain has several consensus mechanisms such as proof of work and proof of
stake. Proof of work (PoW) identifies the nodewhich is able to solve a difficult puzzle
and has a right to append a new block in chain [2]. Proof of work (PoW) is also a
Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain … 123
consensus algorithm used in bitcoin. Proof of stack (PoS) has virtual mechanism to
reach a consensus using validators. Validators get a reward in proportion of stake.
The attackers are required to hold large number of stake to attack blockchain. Voting-
based consensus is based on verifying together a transactions or blocks by all nodes
in network [2].
The concept of energy Internet evolves from power grid structure with renewable
energy generation, distributed energy storage devices and existing Internet. Rikfin
[3] discussed lessening the use of traditional fuel which diminishes the environment
and human life and emphasizes the use of energy internet system, combination of
energy systems and information technology. The characteristics of energy Internet
are accurate measurement, wide multi source cooperation, intelligent control and
open trading [4].
From the study of research papers, it is concluded that the major work that are
being done in the branch of blockchain is either in the field of its security as in Ref.
[5], i.e., developing, enhancing and optimizing various cryptographic values used
to make blockchain more immutable. The papers focusing on the enhancement of
various concepts used in the blockchain basically focuses on making blockchain
more immutable, hack-proof and attacks—proof as discussed byWatanabe et al. [6].
The approach they all shows combined speaks of enhancing the consensus, i.e., the
protocol miners have to follow for mining the blocks and the rewards they get in
return. The major topic that each paper discussed is the creation of new consensus
to improve the security flaws dishonest miners are exploiting. They mainly focus
on two consensuses, namely proof of work and proof of stake that are referenced in
Refs. [7, 8]. All debated on the best consensus protocol among these two, and they
both have advantages [9] over each other and have their own use cases where they
should be used [10]. As mining is a game and each mining pools are competing with
each other to maximize rewards, this in turn leads to the implementation of game
theory in blockchain. In paper [11], authors suggested that the game theory can help
the currently used consensus protocols such as PoW and PoS as well as help create
new consensus protocol which can favor honest mining of blocks, hence increasing
the immutability and attack resistivity of blockchain network.
This is how many players (miners) make decisions while keeping in mind the
actions that their competitors will take. Dey [12] used supervised ML model in the
application layer of the blockchain network system. Themodel monitors whether the
given transaction as validated by the miners is fair or not. The prediction is totally
based on previous activity of miners and the kind of game is being played in past
either honest or dishonest. A game theory model has three components: players—
the decision-makers same as the managers in any firms who does all the main work;
secondly, strategies—the decisions they want to take, choices they make to further
their companies; and last, payoff—outcome of the strategies, but it comes with price
of attack, Auer and Raphael [9] discussed the various attacks—denial-of-service
attack, fifty-one percent attack, domain name server attacks, distributed denial-of-
service attacks, consensus delays, orphaned block and block ingestion smart contract
attack. In this paper, Liu and Zhao [13] define proof of work and proof of stakes as
not everyone in the network is honest. There are many ways to prevent cheating and
124 N. K. Tyagi et al.
unfair play, so to secure the network, miners validate incoming transactions and add
them in the block. They all compete by solving a complicated cryptographic puzzle
and race for it so that their blocks get attached to main blockchain.
Watanabe et al. [6] propose a mechanism that secures blockchain by applying
contracts management, a serious issue in contracts management that focuses on how
collapse in coin prices will not work against attacks when using the proof of stake
method. Cong [14] analyzed consensus quality and how the features of blockchain
redefine the landscape of competition. Smart contract mitigates the information to
improve welfare and consumer surplus through enhanced competition between the
miners and distributing information across blockchain network during consensus
generation may encourage greater collusion among miners. Some related works are
discussed in Table 1.
3 Research Methodology
Game theory is a mathematical tool that is being used in logic design, computer
engineering, systemdevelopment andmore. It can be treated same as human behavior
under predefined circumstances in which certain structures and methodology can be
used to predict the hones behavior of participants or players [23–26]. The game
theory consists of three basic components: participants, strategy and output.
3.1 Game Theory
Participants or players take decisions. Strategies are the options availablewith players
while considering the strategies of opponent players. The outcome comes after
the options chosen within system with maximum profit [27–30]. The players can
choose same direction and repeatedly same moves with same output. Some of the
terminologies are:
Player: A player is considered as a decision-maker in the game. In the blockchain,
players can be miners, mining pools or blockchain users.
Utility: It is the profit of a player gained against a certain decision opted by the
player considering the opponent’s decision.
Strategy: It is the set of actions that a player had and the profit attached to
that respective action. A player has many actions and the profits attached to it
considering the opponent’s decisions.
Rationality: It is assumed with consideration of player is rational, i.e., he tries to
get maximize its own profit in all possible situations.
Each player wants to maximize his own profit by analyzing all the possible
outcomes when opponents make a certain decision. In blockchain, every individual
mining pool is acting as an individual decision-maker, and all want to maximize their
Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain … 125
Table 1 Related works
Author Year Objectives Strengths
Wang and Liu [15] 2015 Explored the way of Miner
Evolution in Bitcoin Network
Author discussed the mining
process of Bitcoin by analyzing
full set of transactions. The author
also discussed about evolvement
of computational power,
productivity and transaction
activity over time
Kim and Hahn [16] 2016 Manipulation of mining pool in
blockchain network over
Evolutionary Block Withholding
Attack
A game theory-based analysis of
proof of work (PoW) consensus
algorithm in blockchain network
in pool mining. Author also
analyzed dynamics affected by
malicious infiltrators and how
feasible of individual miner
migration. Author evaluated Nash
Equilibrium with replicator
dynamics
Göbel et al. [17] 2016 Bitcoin Blockchain dynamics:
The selfish-mine strategy in the
presence of propagation delay
Markov model is used to find
states of belief in blockchain of a
small pool of dishonest miners
and the remaining community.
Spatial Poisson process model
applied to further study
Liu et al. [18] 2017 Mining Pool Selection using
evolutionary game in Blockchain
Networks
A case study of two mining pools
has been done for determining
evolutionary stability for pool
selection dynamics. The
numerical examples are also
presented for proofing of work
Chatterjee et al. [19] 2018 Hybrid Mining: Exploiting
Blockchain’s Computational
Power for Distributed Problem
Solving
Hybrid mining protocol is used for
solving real world problems with
Hashcash. The protocol gives
consent to join new miner to
network by participating in
Hashcash mining without having
to own initial stake
Wang et al. [20] 2018 Discussed the game theory-based
pool Strategies Selection in
PoW-Based Blockchain Networks
Game theory is applied at mining
pool strategy selection to
determine trade-off between
efficiency of openness and
chances of attacks in PoW
dependent blockchain network
Kopp et al. [21] 2018 Blockchain Based on Human
Miners
A novel concept of proof of
human work that uses multiparty
computation and secure captcha is
used security of human work.
uMine, a new energy efficient
mining algorithm where process
of mining is achieved by human
miners
(continued)
126 N. K. Tyagi et al.
Table 1 (continued)
Author Year Objectives Strengths
Wang et al. [22] 2019 Survey conducted on Consensus
algorithms and Mining technique
and strategy Management in
Blockchain Networks
Author reviewed of the
state-of-the-art consensus
protocols which has mainly focus
on both the perspective of
distributed consensus system
design and the perspective of
incentive mechanism design.
Author also discussed strategy
adoption for self-organization by
the individual nodes in the
blockchain backbone networks
profit. The solution must contain the Nash equilibriumwhere every individual player
continues to follow the same strategy without any external pressure [31–33]. It also
required a fair play that contains incentive policies that will maximize miners’ profit
only when they all play fair. Thus, the solution approaches shall take care of both
Nash Equilibrium and fair play.
3.2 Game Theory Approaches
The desired game theories approached are explained below:
3.2.1 Prisoners Dilemma
This is one of the famous examples of game theory that teaches us about Nash
equilibrium and how to use that to improve our solution. Prisoner’s dilemma is
summarized in Tables 2 and 3.
Looking and summarizing the outcomes of the prisoner’s dilemma, it can be
concluded that if it is a one shot game, then there will be Nash equilibrium here,
Table 2 Outcomes of prisoner’s dilemma
Player 2
Defect Cooperate
Player 1
-1, 2 1, 1 Cooperate
0, 0 2,-1 Defect
Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain … 127
Table 3 Outcomes of benevolent cooperation
Defect Cooperate Player 1
-1, 1 2, 2 Cooperate
0, 0 1, -1 Defect
Player 2 
because both the players will get their maximum outcome if they defect each other
in spite of cooperating with each other.
3.2.2 Benevolent Cooperation
It is the updating of prisoner’s dilemma that creates Nash equilibrium for players
to play fairly with each other. The payoff distribution policy postulated by the
benevolent cooperation is given below:
On analyzing Table 3 and seeing through each player’s perspective, there is Nash
equilibrium and each player would choose to cooperate with each other in order
to maximize their profit. This payoff distribution scheme is valid for continuous
cooperative transaction between the nodes unlike prisoner’s dilemma which is good
for one shot game. It is not the case with this scenario, i.e., even a node is mining its
last block and after that they would no longer act as a node, in that case too betraying
your opponent does not give you the maximum profit.
Thus, benevolent cooperation payoff distribution scheme can be used to reward
the miners. It would enforce each miner to play fairly so as to maximize their own
profit, and hence, there would be Nash Equilibrium in this case. As fair play among
the miner’s increases, it increases the trust of blockchain and will increase in node
participating in our blockchain which indirectly helps in improving the distributed
network. As now miners are playing fairly, the miners will use their hash rates in
mining the blocks which would increase in the time taken by a block to get in the
blockchain and as time to mine a block reduces it thus decreases the hacking chances
of the blockchain. Thus, game theory helps us in creating such a reward distribution
policy in the consensus that would force the miners to play honestly.
128 N. K. Tyagi et al.
3.3 Proposed Approach
On applying game theory concept to blockchain, miners can be enforced to play
fairly as discussed above, but as real blockchain is distributed platform so Python
code is used to create the blockchain that contains all basic fundamental features that
a traditional blockchain contains.
The postman software is used to make blockchain nodes and to make them able
to communicate with each other like traditional blockchain does. Postman is used to
allow interactions between these nodes as in the case of original blockchain happens.
Apart from implementing and creating blockchain of our own and implementing the
consensus, aim is to use game theory concepts in our created blockchain. The goal is
to create consensus mechanism that will enforce fair play between the nodes. Thus
the benevolent cooperation solution of game theory is implemented as one of the
consensus mechanisms apart from the consensus that finds and updates the longest
chain present in the blockchain. So by using benevolent cooperation concept, the
reward distribution policy is implemented in blockchain.
As block is beingmined by theminers, theremust be reward distribution according
to their fair play. Thus consensus based on game theory works and distributes reward
accordingly. Figure 1 shows the algorithm of pool war in blockchain.
The conclusions are that 0.0098(cheat) > 0.0069(honest). It is more profitable to
cannibalize pools than mine honestly. Figure 2 shows the algorithm for distributed
network in blockchain.
Fig. 1 Pool-war in blockchain
Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain … 129
Fig. 2 Distributed network algorithm
4 Implementation and Result Analysis
In implementation, the block index, proof of work, hash value etc., are used in self-
created blockchain. The solution gives the real-time working of blockchain and how
timestamp changes every time a block is being mined. As the real blockchain is
distributed and applying consensus mechanism to it in real time is the hardest part,
the postman software is used to make such blockchain nodes and to make them
able to communicate with each other like traditional blockchain does. Other various
functions that supports self-created blockchain working as follows:
get_chain(): This function returns the node present in a particular node in JSON
format which gives us the information about block index, transactions included,
timestamp and proof.
Add_transaction(): It allows a node to add transaction. The transaction contains
the details about the sender, receiver and amount to be transferred. It returns the
message whether the transaction is being added or not and if added, then which
block will contain that.
Connect_nodes(): It is POSTmethodwhich contains the list containing addresses
of the nodes to be connected in its body. It connects other nodes present in our
distributed network to our node. It returns the status code that whether nodes have
been connected successfully or not.
Replace_chain(): It is the function that manages the consensus mechanism of
our self-created distributed blockchain. It finds the longest chain present in our
network and replaces the longest chain present and hence applies the consensus
mechanism in our blockchain.
Mine_block(): It is the basic function used tomine block. It receives the JSONfile
which contains the loyalty of the miner. Benevolent cooperation is implemented
in this function. It distributes the rewards to the respective miner according their
behavior and the incentive.
130 N. K. Tyagi et al.
Table 4 Result analysis
Test cases Input Functionality Expected output Actual output Result
1 Miner1: Honest
Miner2: Honest
Do reward
distribution as per
benevolent
cooperation
outcome
Miner1: 2
Miner2: 2
Miner1: 2
Miner2: 2
Pass
2 Miner1: Honest
Miner2: Dishonest
Do reward
distribution as per
benevolent
cooperation
outcome
Miner1: 1
Miner2: −1
Miner1: 1
Miner2: −1
Pass
3 Miner1: Dishonest
Miner2: Honest
Do reward
distribution as per
benevolent
cooperation
outcome
Miner1: −1
Miner2: 1
Miner1: −1
Miner2: 1
Pass
4 Miner1: Dishonest
Miner2: Dishonest
Do reward
distribution as per
benevolent
cooperation
outcome
Miner1: 0
Miner2: 0
Miner1: 0
Miner2: 0
Pass
As in implementation part, it is focused onmore on finding how blockchain works
in real, but as to host blockchain and to mine real blocks, it needs a huge amount
of computational power which is not the prime focus of this paper. As this paper
focuses on the different equilibrium points in reward distribution mechanism, hence
the result analysis should be to verify whether implemented blockchain works as
required. Thus, some of the test cases focus on the outcome that would give the
miner’s honesty (Table 4).
From analyzing the above test cases, it is found that reward distribution policy
in blockchain is very important to maintain trust level among the miners. It is also
found that there is a lot of difficulty in maintaining all these consensus mechanisms
in real time among the trillions of nodes of the distributed network.
5 Conclusion
It is found that benevolent cooperation is best suited for blockchain reward distribu-
tion policy and promotes miners to mine honestly and establishes Nash equilibrium
in that. The creation and implementation of distributed blockchain are also done. In
implementation, it is noticed that how every blockchain functionality would work
in real-time distributed architecture and hence concludes that in spite there are still
scalability issues in blockchain, if such reward distribution policies optimized using
game theory, it can promote fair play between miners. Thus, honest play of miners
Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain … 131
increases trust level in the blockchain which would directly encourages more nodes
to be a part of blockchain. It increases distributed nature of blockchain which might
improve the security issues.
References
1. Lamport L, Shostak R, Pease M (1982) The Byzantine generals problem. ACMTrans Program
Lang Syst (TOPLAS) 4(3):382–401
2. Alsunaidi SJ,Alhaidari FA (2019)A survey of consensus algorithms for blockchain technology.
In: International conference on computer and information sciences (ICCIS). Sakaka, Saudi
Arabia, pp 1–6
3. Rifkin J (2011) The third industrial revolution: how lateral power is transforming energy, the
economy, and the world. Macmillan
4. Ma Z, Zhou XX, Shang YW, Sheng WX (2015) Exploration of the concept, key technology
and development model of energy internet. Proc Power Syst Technol 39:3014–3022
5. Lin I-C, Liao T-C (2017) A survey of blockchain security issues and challenges. IJ Netw Secur
19(5):653–659
6. Watanabe H, Fujimura S, Nakadaira A, Miyazaki Y, Akutsu A, Kishigami J (2016) Blockchain
contract: securing a blockchain applied to smart contracts. In: 2016 IEEE international
conference on consumer electronics (ICCE), pp 467–468
7. Seang S, Torre D (2018) Proof of work and proof of stake consensus protocols: a blockchain
application for local complementary currencies. Universite Cote d’Azur-GREDEG-CNRS,
France Str 3.4
8. Saleh F (2019) Blockchain without waste: proof-of-stake. SSRN Scholarly Paper ID 3183935.
Social Science Research Network, Rochester NY
9. Auer R (2019) Beyond the doomsday economics of proof-of-work in cryptocurrencies
10. Gao Y, Nobuhara H (2017) A proof of stake sharding protocol for scalable blockchains. Proc
Asia-Pacific Adv Netw 44:13–16
11. Singh R, Dwivedi AD, Srivastava G, Wiszniewska-Matyszkiel A, Cheng X (2020) A game
theoretic analysis of resource mining in blockchain. Cluster Comput 1–12
12. Dey S (2018) Securing majority-attack in blockchain using machine learning and algorithmic
game theory: a proof of work. In: 2018 10th computer science and electronic engineering
(CEEC). IEEE, pp 7–10
13. Liu X et al (2018) Evolutionary game for mining pool selection in blockchain networks. IEEE
Wirel Commun Lett 7(5):760–763
14. Cong, Lin William, and Zhiguo He: Blockchain disruption and smart contracts. The Review
of Financial Studies 32, no. 5. (2019)1754–1797
15. Wang L, Liu Y (2015) Exploring miner evolution in bitcoin network. In: International
conference on passive and active network measurement. Springer, Cham, pp 290–302
16. Kim S, Hahn SG (2019) Mining pool manipulation in blockchain network over evolutionary
block withholding attack. IEEE Access 7:144230–144244
17. Göbel J, Keeler HP, Krzesinski AE, Taylor PG (2016) Bitcoin blockchain dynamics: the selfish-
mine strategy in the presence of propagation delay. Perform Eval 104:23–41
18. LiuX,WangW,NiyatoD, ZhaoN,Wang P (2018) Evolutionary game formining pool selection
in blockchain networks. IEEE Wirel Commun 7(5):760–763
19. Chatterjee K, Goharshady AK, Pourdamghani A (2019) Hybrid mining: exploiting
blockchain’s computational power for distributed problem solving. In: Proceedings of the 34th
ACM/SIGAPP symposium on applied computing, pp 374–381
20. Wang Y, Tang C, Lin F, Zheng Z, Chen Z (2019) Pool strategies selection in PoW-based
blockchain networks: game-theoretic analysis. IEEE Access 7:8427–8436
132 N. K. Tyagi et al.
21. Kopp H, Kargl F, Bösch C, Peter A (2018) uMine: a blockchain based on human miners.
In: International conference on information and communications security. Springer, Cham, pp
20–38
22. Wang W, Hoang DT, Hu P, Xiong Z, Niyato D, Wang P, Wen Y, Kim DI (2019) A survey on
consensusmechanisms andmining strategymanagement in blockchain networks. IEEEAccess
7:22328–22370
23. Kumar A, Krishnamurthi R, Nayyar A, Luhach AK, Khan MS, Singh A (2020) A novel
software-defined drone network (SDDN)-based collision avoidance strategies for on-road
traffic monitoring and management. Veh Commun 100313
24. KumarA, SharmaK, SinghH,Naugriya SG,Gill SS, BuyyaR (2020)Adrone-based networked
system and methods for combating coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. Future Gener
Comput Syst 115:1–19
25. Singhal R, Kumar A, Singh H, Fuller S, Gill SS (2020) Digital device-based active learning
approach using virtual community classroom during the COVID-19 pandemic. Comput Appl
Eng Educ
26. Kumar A, Aggarwal A (2012) Survey and taxonomy of key management protocols for wired
and wireless networks. Int J Netw Secur Appl 4(3):21–40
27. Kumar A, Gopal K, Aggarwal A (2015) Novel trusted hierarchy construction for RFID sensor-
based MANETs using ECCs. ETRI J 37(1):186–196
28. Kumar A, Gopal K, Aggarwal A (2014) Cost and lightweight modeling analysis of RFID
authentication protocols in resource constraint internet of things. J Commun Softw Syst
10(3):179–187
29. Kumar A, Krishnamurthi R, Nayyar A, Sharma K, Grover V, Hossain E (2020) A novel smart
healthcare design, simulation, and implementation using healthcare 4.0 processes. IEEEAccess
8:118433–118471
30. Kumar A, Jain S, Yadav D (2020) A novel simulation-annealing enabled ranking and scaling
statistical simulation constrained optimization algorithm for internet-of-things (IoTs). Smart
Sustain Built Environ
31. Krishnamurthi R, Kumar A, Gopinathan D, Nayyar A, Qureshi B (2020) An overview of IoT
sensor data processing, fusion, and analysis techniques. Sensors 20(21):6076
32. Singh V, Aggarwal A, Kumar A, Sanwal S (2019) The transition from centralized (Subversion)
VCS to decentralized (Git) VCS: a holistic approach. IUP J Electr Electron Eng 12(1)
33. Kumar A, Aggarwal A, Yadav D (2018) A multi-layered outlier detection model for resource
constraint hierarchical MANET. In: 2018 5th IEEE Uttar Pradesh section international
conference on electrical, electronics and computer engineering (UPCON). IEEE, pp 1–7
	 Game Theory-Based Proof of Stake Mining in Blockchain for Sustainable Energy Efficiency
	1 Introduction
	2 Literature Review and Related Work
	3 Research Methodology
	3.1 Game Theory
	3.2 Game Theory Approaches
	3.3 Proposed Approach
	4 Implementation and Result Analysis
	5 Conclusion
	References