531© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
F. Pantoja, S. Wu (eds.), From Micro to Macro: Dealing with Uncertainties in  
the Global Marketplace, Developments in Marketing Science: Proceedings of  
the Academy of Marketing Science, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89883-0_141
What If? A Robot Challenge 
in a Marketing Course: An Abstract
Carlos Mario Uribe-Saldarriaga, Tatiana Ortiz-Pradilla, 
and Simón Echeverry-Gómez
Abstract Marketing education faces numerous challenges arising from digital dis-
ruption. Currently, the world of marketing is digital. Therefore, it is imperative that 
training in the field also be, despite the difficulties of keeping up with these dynam-
ics. A new wave digital innovation (artificial intelligence, blockchain, robots, among 
others) are beginning to alter companies' relationships with consumers even more. 
EAFIT University's marketing program is no stranger to this reality, which is why it 
has worked hard since the program's introduction in 2011 in the insertion of digital 
marketing in its curriculum and the use of cutting-edge technologies through a spe-
cialized laboratory (MercaLAB, 2020). The University has even entered into the 
experiential learning of new technologies through project-based learning and chal-
lenges (Aguilar-Barrientos et al., 2019), involving students in real situations that 
encourage critical thinking, creativity, conceptual strength, teamwork, and learn-
ing skills.
The authors developed a design experiment with robotics implemented in 
EAFIT’s marketing program in its course of Innovation and New Product 
Development (NPD). This experiment was carried out with the design-based 
research methodology (Bakker, 2018). A characteristic the design team considered 
fundamental to the design experiments of this methodology was its iterative nature, 
which allows refinement through prototypes of the initial idea (or design), and, 
therefore, the desired innovation purposes. The robotic design experiment has been 
fulfilled through three iterations since 2017.
In the first iteration, a limited challenge prototype was implemented. This proto-
type aimed to assess the scope of the robotic challenge, its relevance in a marketing 
course, and the students' performance in it. In a second iteration, we developed a 
complete challenge prototype in whose design both the course professors and 
experts in the field of educational robotics participated. This second prototype 
aimed to develop a complete challenge integrated into the course's dynamics. In a 
C. M. Uribe-Saldarriaga (*) · T. Ortiz-Pradilla · S. Echeverry-Gómez 
Universidad EAFIT, Medellín, Colombia
e-mail: cmuribe@eafit.edu.co; tortizpr@eafit.edu.co; secheve8@eafit.edu.co
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-89883-0_141&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89883-0_141#DOI
mailto:cmuribe@eafit.edu.co
mailto:tortizpr@eafit.edu.co
mailto:secheve8@eafit.edu.co
532
third iteration, the full challenge prototype was implemented in all the new product 
development courses. This third prototype aimed to implement a robotic challenge 
with a broader scope, both in terms of the development of computational thinking, 
the programming and use of the robot, and a more detailed fusion regarding the 
course's dynamics.
The importance of educational robotics as a starting point for the introduction of 
new technologies in the undergraduate marketing curriculum was validated. 
Likewise, the authors proved that the robotic system framed in a narrative and a 
serious game is valuable for the Innovation and NPD course; This pilot was a rele-
vant, valuable, fun, and creativity enhancer.
Keywords Digital disruption · Marketing education · Robotics competitions · 
Design-based research
References Available Upon Request
C. M. Uribe-Saldarriaga et al.
	What If? A Robot Challenge in a Marketing Course: An Abstract