Attention Economy in Metaverse: An NFT Value Perspective
Attention Economy in Metaverse:
An NFT Value Perspective
Chenhuizi Wang†∗, Chunjing Yu‡, Yang Zhang†
†Peersafe Future Fusion Research Institute, Suzhou, China
‡Research Institute of Mindverse.ai, Hangzhou, China
Abstract—With the blooming of NFT platforms such as
Opensea, metaverse has become the most booming concept in
both industry and academia all around the universe. Compre-
hending the way metaverse economy operates and the intrinsic
value propping it has become the key to the essence of metaverse.
We try to reveal the value basis of metaverse via two academic
resources, media theory and attention economics, to describe
the principle of value creation in metaverse economy. To better
examine how the value of NFT projects is affected by human
time and attention devoted to metaverse, we study a system with
structured rules, e.g. blockchain games, to measure the players’
time spent and quantify the players’ rewards. A representative
project, Aavegotchi is examined as a case. We analyse the data
of Aavegotchi pixel ghosts such as price, rarity and player’s time
devoted. We find various interesting results which demonstrate
how the value of NFTs is affected by various factors, and acquire
some meaningful conclusions on the value of time in metaverse.
Index Terms—Metaverse, Attention Economy, NFT, Value
I. INTRODUCTION
In order to understand the value of metaverse, let us first
briefly review the history of the metaverse economy in terms
of the development of three industries. The first is the crypto
industry, where the web3.0 community, with public blockchain
as its key, first proposed the concept of metaverse, which is
oriented towards building the decentralized virtual world. The
main focus of this community is on virtual property rights,
crypto currencies, smart contracts, NFT, etc. Since metaverse
consists of virtual digital elements, the creators of digital
contents are of great importance. The creator community
emphasizes building a healthy ecology and encourages each
participant to create digital content to enrich the virtual world.
As web3.0 industry becomes widespread as an infrastructure,
the rights of digital content creators is confirmed, which means
that digital contents become traceable and tradable commodi-
ties, while they are usually copied for free in the past. Along
with the gradual acceptance of the NFT platforms, the creator
community and the crypto-industry community continue to
converge, becoming the forerunners of digital capitalization
and triggering phenomenal prosperity in digital art. The third
one focuses mainly on VR/AR, man-machine interaction and
digital virtual humans, aiming to reach a seamless connection
between the virtual world and the real world.
The above three industries take three approaches in the
initial development of metaverse, and their concerns are inter-
* Chenhuizi Wang is the corresponding author (museofsummer-
time@gmail.com).
twined deeper and deeper. All of these will become bricks and
mortar for the construction of metaverse, laying a foundation
for metaverse economy to prosper [1]. Metaverse economy
takes user-owned data as a pivot point. In the real world,
the goods we buy are made of physical materials, whereas
metaverse is constructed by computers, with digital pictures
and digital space as carriers. While goods in the physical
world can be valued through cost analysis, virtual objects are
shaped by human mental activities, and their value cannot
be estimated by physical properties. Especially for the crypto
industry, the value of NFT artworks includes not only the value
of art, but also various ones such as community identity and
public welfare. The classical economic theory, which is based
on the calculation of marginal costs, no longer has the same
explanatory power as it did in the past.
To better understand the nature of the value basis in
metaverse, we used media theory and attention economics
as sources of insights. Then we investigated Avegotchi, a
blockchain game, as a study case, and found interesting
results on how the value of NFTs is affected by various
factors. Among them, the value of human time is of special
importance. We found that 78% of time value is from 20%
NFTs, which verifies the gap of investment returns in the
attention economy. This paper lays a foundation for metaverse
value theroy, bringing us closer to a worldview that can create
a long-term prosperity.
II. THE SOURCES OF METAVERSE’S VALUE THEORY
A. Mediatization Theory
1) Metaverse as the Ultimate Form of Mediatization
Metaprocess: The development of media theory has evolved
along with the birth of media such as newspapers, radio,
film, and television. The influence of the media is not limited
to the sender-message-receiver process, but also affects a
wide range of human relationships as societies and cultures
evolve, culminating in structural transformations [2]. With the
expansion of digital media in recent years, Manuel Castell
discussed the Internet and the networked society [3].
Kroz [4] [5] defines mediatization as “a historical, unin-
terrupted, long-term process” in which more and more media
emerge and get institutionalized. It is a modernization process
as important as globalization, urbanization, and individuation,
which does not come to the front until the society reaches a
high degree of modernity.
978-1-6654-7189-3/22/$31.00 © 2022 IEEE
20
22
 IE
EE
 2
4t
h 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l W
or
ks
ho
p 
on
 M
ul
tim
ed
ia
 S
ig
na
l P
ro
ce
ss
in
g 
(M
M
SP
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
71
89
-3
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
M
M
SP
55
36
2.
20
22
.9
94
91
53
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
We think that the concept of metaverse fits well with
the connotation of mediatization, which signifies the close
interaction between media and social and cultural structures.
Metaverse is a holographic medium, an all-encompassing pres-
ence that causes structural changes in the way people receive
information and perform actions. We can say that metaverse
is the final form of the metaprocess of mediatization.
2) Composition of Metaverse: the World of Symbols :
In postmodern theory, some scholars argue that the media
has brought about a new cultural order, which is a special
postmodern situation. The most extreme situation is found
in the work of Baudrillard [6], who believes that the signs
and symbols such as images, sounds and advertisements of
media culture are simulacra or semblances. They follow a
semiotic logic that subordinates communication and discourse
to the dominant code, constructing a hyper-reality that is more
real than reality or even replaces it. Semiotics became the
fundamental principles upon which our understanding of the
metaverse was based. Baudrillard’s insight into semiotics is
very accurate, and can be used as a clue to examine the value
of digital objects in metaverse.
3) Structured Social Interactions in Metaverse: Communi-
cation and action together constitute social interaction. Com-
munication can be considered as a form of action. Especially
in some existing social media platforms, actions like liking,
retweeting, and commenting on a message all indicate the atti-
tude of the communicator. Options available to people depend
on characteristics of different media. Cognitive psychologist
Gibson [7] proposed the concept of affordance to describe this
phenomenon, where the function of a given object constructs
the relationship between subject and object, and affordance
implies not only that a certain action becomes possible, but
also that other possibilities are excluded. Technologies limit
the possibilities of things that use, surround, or pass through
artificial products. Norman [8] introduces “perceived affor-
dance” on this basis, which emphasizes user’s psychological
feelings. The affordance of object is influenced not only by
environment and customs, but also by user’s motivations and
goals.
According to Gibson’s and Norman’s frameworks, the meta-
verse sets the affordance to enable, constrain, and shape peo-
ple’s communication and actions within it. Duan et.al proposed
a three-layer metaverse architecture, containing infrastructure,
interaction, and ecosystem, which is a specific try to analyse
the structured interaction in metaverse [9].
B. Attention Economics
1) From Information Economics to Attention Economics:
The kernel of attention economics first emerged as an em-
phasis on the scarcity of attention and time. As early as 1971,
Herbert Simon, a Nobel laureate in economics, pointed out that
in an information-rich world, the abundance of information
means the lack of consumption of information, i.e., the lack
of recipient [10]. Gary Becker, another Nobel laureate in
economics, a representative of the Chicago School, introduced
the concept of “time value”, which greatly expanded the
traditional concept of “economic man” and enabled non-
monetary factors to be included in economic analysis through
the introduction of time, which is also closely related to the
economics of attention [11]. The Aspen Institute conference
in 1996 examined the “new economics” centered on consumer
attention in new media environment, and pointed out that the
bombardment of information by new technologies has made
human attention a precious commodity. Later in 1997, the
star of the attention economy school, Goldhaber, gave a more
powerful interpretation to this concept [12].
Goldhaber believes that the attention economy is an all-
encompassing system that should not be limited to money
economy dominated by business, banking and finance. The
internet era is an era of attention-focused economy. What
flows on the network is not only information, but also human
attention. The concept of information economy is widespread,
but the information is something that everyone is producing.
Scarce attention is what is hidden inside information produc-
tion, distribution, transaction and consumption activities. What
is lacking in the Internet era is not information but attention,
so the current society should be the era of attention economy
instead of information economy.
Attention is hard currency of information space. The total
amount of human attention may seem limited, but media such
as video and television create false attention, making a person
spend a certain amount of time but take hundreds of more
from viewers. This difference creates a new class division in
the attention economy, i.e., celebrities and fans. Celebrities
become the new landmarks of society, while those who cannot
speak or go unnoticed will become the new poor class.
Although somewhat over-idealized, Goldhaber’s insight
around 2000 is becoming mainstream in the reality two
decades later. From rational consumption to emotional con-
sumption, people’s focus is shifting from necessity-based
to symbolic-based, impulsing consumption to meet spiritual
needs. Goldhaber emphasizes that the network economy oper-
ates around the resource of attention and is not accommo-
dated by neoclassical economic theory. Precise quantitative
measurements of production and distribution is at the heart
of the industrial age, while attention cannot be measured in
the same way. This also leads to divisions between attention
economics and neoclassical economics.
2) Valuation of Attention in Metaverse: In metaverse, me-
dia will play an important role in the attention economy by
internalizing value process into presentation and operation
rules into the virtual world. NFTs are a composite carrier
that fuse virtual products, community identity, symbolic value,
public service and personal interests in one, thus its value is
greatly dependent on people’s psychology. In such a system
where valuation is subjective and symbolic, we might expect
the large node phenomenon to be more pronounced in the
metaverse. Following the path of attention economics, we may
be able to explore how people’s attention affects the value of
virtual goods.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
III. CASE STUDY
A. Aavegotchi
Metaverse sets the affordance that enables, constrains,
and shapes communication and action of people in it, and
blockchain games can be considered a simple version of
metaverse that set clear rules within the system and defines
human action with it. This gives us a convenient way to
investigate players’ behavior and earnings comparing to total
free ones.
To better examine the value of time and attention in meta-
verse, we investigated a blockchain game called Aavegotchi.
Aavegotchi is a pixel ghost pet with ERC-721 as the standard
on Ethereum public chain, with which players can stake a
certain amount of token into it, and interact with it as a digital
pet. Ethereum official website says their value is determined by
rarity, which depends on basic features, additional mortgage
currency and wearable equipment. Players use their wallets
as ID and convert general digital currencies such as Ethereum
and MATIC tokens into Aavegotchi’s token GHST to buy pixel
ghosts as digital pets. Players can interact with pixel ghosts
to increase intimacy values, and can also use pixel ghosts to
participate in Mini Game gaining parameters like experience
and intimacy. One of its major innovations is that a certain
amount of digital currency is put into the ghosts, which makes
ghost pets have value anchors as NFTs. More importantly to
us, there are structural construction and numerical indicators
for users’attention devoted, which can make our work much
easier.
B. Data Acquisition
Each digital ghost has main attributes of MRS, KINS, EXP
and StakedToken. The abbreviation and meaning are listed in
Tab I. As the attention paid by players is difficult to measure
directly, we used the parameters constructed by the Aavegotchi
system to measure the attention invested by users and the gains
after trading. At the beginning, each pixel ghost pet has an
initial intimacy value of 50, and every 12-hour of consecutive
interaction brings a rise of at most 1 KINS. If you do not
interact with the pet for 24 hours, however, the KINS value
decreases by 1 point. So the KINS value most directly reflects
the degree of users’ effective participation. The EXP value
can be obtained through the participation of DAO, discord
community and minigame, so it also reflects the degree of
participation of the holder.
TABLE I
ABBREVIATION TABLE
Abbreviation Meaning
MRS ModifiedRarityScore
KINS kinship and intimacy
SalePrice last sale price
XP experience
StakedToken digital currency inside ghosts
TimeValue SalePrice−StakedToken
KINS−50
TABLE II
PEARSON CORRELATION COEFFICIENT (EACH P VALUE IS 0.000)
MRS & Price 0.416
KINS & Price 0.158
XP & Price 0.335
StakedToken & Price 0.295
We crawled the data of the last 5000 transactions from
the Aavegotchi website, including each buyer’s unique ID,
each digital ghost’s ID, the purchase and sale price of each
transaction, and each digital ghost’s parameters of SalePrice,
MRS, KINS, XP and StakedToken. Though one person can
have multiple IDs, we consider each ID as a valid buyer or
seller just like other studies do. As we try to find the connec-
tion between ghosts’ value increase and players’ devoted time,
the applicable data for us is limited to 5000, as the number
of parameter-detailed history transactions is restricted by the
game maker. For researchers who have applicable datasets, we
appreciate sharing to update this research.
We first analysed these 5000 pieces of transaction infor-
mation, and found that the average degree of the seller’s
trading network is 5.32, and the global average clustering
coefficient is 0.04. We can see that the clustering degree of
online anonymous network community is relatively low. The
seller’s transaction frequency is pdf(x) = x−3.34, and the
buyer’s transaction frequency is pdf(x) = x−3.23, which obeys
power law distribution. The large nodes of buyers’ and sellers’
transactions are shown in Fig. 1.
Fig. 1. Buyer and Seller Network
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 2. Pearson Correlation Coefficient Analysis for Transaction Prices
C. Pearson Correlation Coefficient for Transaction Prices
Next, we sifted through the data samples, taking the unique
ID of each pixel ghost as a clue, and screened out a total
of 3472 pieces of data for the last time sales. We examined
the relationship between SalePrice and KINS, XP, MRS and
StokedToken, seen in Tab.II and Fig.2, with digital currencies
converted into token GHST according to the average exchange
rate of the last three months. We found that salePrice has
positive correlation with KINS, XP, MRS and StokedToken,
but none of them has a decisive linear correlation, that is,
rarity, intimacy, empirical value and internal digital currency
do not decisively affect the sales price of ghosts. Although
MRS is the strongest factor to affect price, this is somehow
different from the declaration on the official website that the
value of each ghost is determined by rarity.
D. Selection of Parameters
We found that there was a strong linear correlation between
XP and KINS. The Pearson correlation coefficient between
KINS and XP is 0.655 with a p-value of 0.000. That is
because they all reflect the user’s investment of time. XP
is more relevant to SalePrice than KINS, indicating that
activities in community might help advertise ghosts. Here,
we choose KINS as an indicator because it directly reflects
the time invested by players. According to the mechanism of
Aavegotchi platform, KINS starts with a fixed value of 50, and
increases or decreases according to various factors, such as the
time ghost spends with the same owner and the frequency of
interaction. The minimum kinship value is 0, and there is no
maximum value. Interacting with Aavegotchi for 12 hours can
accumulate up to 1 point of intimacy. If the pixel ghost is not
Fig. 3. The Most Profitable Pixel Ghost
used for 24 hours, the kinship will be deducted by 1 point.
This parameter defined by the game system will allow us to
estimate the limit of effective game time invested by players.
E. The Pure Value of Ghosts
Next, we examined the value of StakedToken and found 34
items with no digital currency, accounting for 1% of the total,
which means that the pixel ghost has not been activated, and
its MRS, XP and KINS are all 0 accordingly. Pixel ghosts
in this state are in the blind boxes. We distinguished this set
of data from the total data and found that its average value
is 934.7 GHST, which fluctuates greatly and has no obvious
distribution law.
In order to examine the net value of pixel ghosts them-
selves, we used SalePrice − StakedToken to remove the
value of the internal digital currency from the ghost. It is found
that two sets of values are less than 0, accounting for 0.067%,
which means that the players sold their Pixel ghosts at a lower
price than they bought, which may be due to irrational actions
or concerns about fluctuating exchange rates.
After excluding unopened and negative profit ones, we
found that the average value of SalePrice−StakedToken is
807.60, which is lower than the average value of blind boxes,
which can be regarded as the overestimation phenomenon
in NFT blind boxes. The sample value of SalePrice −
StakedToken obeys lognormal distribution ln(SalePrice −
GHSTtoken) ∼ N (6.50, 0.492), and the data distribution is
very concentrated, showing a clear long tail effect.
F. The Most Profitable Pixel Ghost
Looking at the rest of the data, we can see the gap
between the peak and the bottom. Among them, the buyer with
the address 0x23abad8c65a9a93abcc343892aaf3d6e88b5ccc9
bought the pixel ghost #10644, named LuckyAavegotchi, seen
in Fig.3, put 0.25 AAVE in it, and sold it earning 31,000
GHST. According to the average exchange rate of recent three
months, the buyer earned 30,900 GHST currency, that is,
nearly 380,000 RMB. The Ghost’s intimacy value is 484. This
means that he has spent at least 217 days (5208 hours) inter-
acting with the ghost, and the daily harvest is 142.40 GHST,
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
or US $273. This is a good investment and represents the
peak of pixel ghost’s value in Aavegotchi from October 2021
to April 2022. LuckyAavegotchi’s congenital scarcity attribute
578 ranks first, and the player increased its MRS to 840 with
several equipment bonuses, becoming an extremely rare ghost,
which lays a foundation for LuckyAavegotchi to become the
unsurpassed benchmark in nearly 3000 transactions.
Similarly, ghost #24975, the second profitable ghost, which
was sold at 28000 GHST, ranked third in original scarcity,
and did not get equipment. The player put 103.26 USDT
inside, and the net income was about 27896.74 GHST, or about
$2394. This means that the holder spent at least 197 days
(4728 hours) interacting with the ghost, with a daily income
of 141.614 GHST, or $272, close to the first one.
G. The Cheapest and Least Rare Ghost
For the ghost #16244 named “I owe Jayson a Drink” with
the lowest selling price, the transaction price is only 100
GHST, with 0.063 AAVE in it, and profit is about 95 GHST.
Its KINS is 489, with a daily income of only 1.67 GHST,
about $3. As to the ghost with the lowest MRS, it is #24485
“The menu”. It has an MRS of 336, much lower than “I owe
Jayson a Drink”, but finally sells at 550 GHST, earning 540
GHST. Its KINS is 480 with a daily income of about 2.25
GHST, $4.32, which is even higher than the daily income of
“I owe Jayson a Drink”.
By examining the appearances of the two ghosts, we found
that the seller changed the look of “The menu” by wearing the
equipment that did not increase the rarity, which successfully
completed a smokescreen that raised the price of the ghost.
This fully reflects the complexity of the value of NFT prod-
ucts: it is affected not only by the consideration of digital
currency and rarity, but also by the impact of appearance. It
is difficult to use any standard to rank the value of an NFT
product.
H. Ghosts’ TimeValue
Since the initial value of KINS is 50, we define ghosts with
a KINS value greater than 50 as effective attention ghosts,
while many ghosts with KINS value less than or equal to
50 lack effective interaction in systematic decisions, which
will be considered separately. When KINS>50, we found
ln(SalePrice − GHSTtoken) ∼ N (6.51, 0.49) with mean
value of 811.87, seen in Fig.4.
In order to find the relationship between the intrinsic value
of the ghost and the attention paid, we define the parameter
TimeValue, which represents the increase in ghosts’ value as a
result of each increase in KINS value, which requires at least
12 hours of high-quality interaction.
TimeV alue = (SalePrice − StakedToken)/(KINS −
50)
We found that TimeValue growth obeys lognormal distribu-
tion, that is, lnT imeV alue ∼ N (1.18, 1.03), seen in Fig.5.
In terms of data performance, there is also a long tail effect.
We calculated the top 20% of TimeValue and found that
they accounted for 78.36% of the total. This also means that
Fig. 4. Distribution of SalePrice-StakedToken When KINS > 50
Fig. 5. Distribution of TimeValue When KINS > 50
most of the value of the attention invested is earned by head
players. It also reflects the cruelty of investment returns in
the attention economy and confirms Goldharber’s prediction
of an attention gap. The TimeValue has not yet reached the
scale-free distribution common in online social networks. This
might be because the action cost of TimeValue is much higher
than just clicking to follow big nodes in social media.
I. Ghosts with Highest and Lowest Time Value
We examined the peak and bottom of TimeValue. The
minimum value is 0.27 GHST and the maximum value is 695
GHST. We noticed that a ghost with the highest time value,
“ABOBUS”, with a MRS value of 486 and a KINS value of
51, cost a little time of its owner but was sold at the price
of 720 GHST, earning 695 GHST, which earns the highest
return on time investments. Whereas the lowest time value
one “Crypton81” is sold at 555 GHST earning only 87.24
GHST, costing a lot of time, with KINS of 371 and MRS of
511 (higher than “ABOBUS”). For individual players, getting
the best return on time investment seems like a matter of luck.
For those who sell ghosts at high prices with a few stacked
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 6. Distribution of SalePrice-StakedToken When KINS ≤ 50
tokens inside, perhaps the sensitivity to market volatility is
more important. It may be better for players to participate
for fun, and the external return on investment is only a by-
product of the emotional satisfaction in game play. This again
reflects the paradox in attention economy, where people earns
the most without paying the most, which is quite different
from the industrial world.
Finally, we examined the ghosts whose KINS is less than or
equal to 50. There is a total of 137 groups, accounting for 4.6%
of the sample. When KINS ≤ 50, we found ln(SalePrice−
GHSTtoken) ∼ N (6.36, 0.34), seen in Fig.6. Its mean value
is 619, which is significantly less than that of the sample whose
KINS is greater than 50. The average value of the latter is
mainly contributed by head ghosts with high prices.
IV. CONCLUSION
We examined the data of Avagotchi and found the following
main conclusions. First of all, the transaction prices of NFTs
is positively correlated with rarity, but not decisively affected
by rarity. Second, the transaction frequency of both buyers
and sellers shows a power law distribution. The transaction
network has an obvious phenomenon of large nodes with a
low clustering degree. Third, the average sale price of blind
boxes is relatively higher than opened ones, which reflects
the overestimation of blind boxes. Fourth, there are players
who sold their NFTs at a loss, which reflects an irrational
operation to some extent. Fifth, the net value of NFTs obeys
the lognormal distribution with an obvious long tail effect.
Sixth, we analysed the most profitable ghost, the cheapest
ghost, the least rare ghost, the ghost with the highest time value
and the lowest time value, and illustrated the comprehensive
factors that affect the value of NFT products. Seventh, the
average price of ghosts with effective intimacy is higher than
that without enough devoted time. Eighth, the price growth
of each intimacy point noted as TimeValue obeys lognormal
distribution. The ghosts in the top 20% account for 78.36%
of the total time value, which also means that most return of
attention investment is earned by head players. It also reflects
the cruelty of investment returns in the attention economy and
confirms Goldharber’s prediction of an attention gap.
Metaverse is a holographic medium that can be seen as the
final form of the metaprocess of mediatization. When viewing
it as an economic system, we must realize that it is a dominant
process that not only changes the way of daily communication,
but also the way people allocate their interests. Above that,
a mechanism of attention and time distribution will come
into being, which endows digital elements with subjective
value. With web 3.0 as an infrastructure, digital elements can
be capitalized as NFTs, giving birth to a new but chaotic
economy. Couldry believes that on the premise of media
universalization, media can be meta-capital, which has an
essential ideological power and provides a basic framework
for understanding the world [13]. We can see that metaverse
as the ultimate meta-capital is already on its way to flourishing.
Understanding the internal value logic of metaverse will help
us build consensus and push forward the metaverse economy
to develop sustainably and promptly, while making wiser
decisions on both money and time allocation.
V. FUTURE RESEARCH
The above research focuses mainly on objective time mea-
sured by length, whereas human attention not only occupies
time, but also contains emotions and feelings. In this paper, we
studied Aavegotchi, an attention game system with structured
rules. On the other hand, the value of pure NFTs without
games relies more on users’ subjective valuation of their
communities’ symbols. A representative project, Bored APE,
will be examined as a following case. We will analyse the
data of NFTs such as price, rarity and the number of likes,
and acquire some meaningful findings of how NFTs leap their
prices up. The rest part of this research will be revealed soon.
REFERENCES
[1] W. Chenhuizi and C. Wei, “Digital economics in metaverse: state-of-
the-art, characteristics, and vision,” Big Data Research, pp. 140–150, 8
2022.
[2] S. Hjarvard, The mediatization of culture and society. Routledge, 2013.
[3] M. Castells, “The information age: Economy, society and culture (3
volumes),” Blackwell, Oxford, vol. 1997, p. 1998, 1996.
[4] F. Krotz, “The meta-process of mediatization as a conceptual frame,”
Global media and communication, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 256–260, 2007.
[5] F. Krotz, “Mediatization: A concept with which to grasp media and so-
cietal change,” Mediatization: Concept, changes, consequences, pp. 21–
40, 2009.
[6] J. Baudrillard, Simulacra and simulation. University of Michigan press,
1994.
[7] J. J. Gibson, The ecological approach to visual perception: classic
edition. Psychology press, 2014.
[8] D. Norman, The design of everyday things: Revised and expanded
edition. Basic books, 2013.
[9] H. Duan, J. Li, S. Fan, Z. Lin, X. Wu, and W. Cai, “Metaverse for social
good: A university campus prototype,” in Proceedings of the 29th ACM
International Conference on Multimedia, pp. 153–161, 2021.
[10] H. A. Simon, “Applying information technology to organization design,”
Public administration review, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 268–278, 1973.
[11] G. S. Becker, “A theory of the allocation of time,” The economic journal,
vol. 75, no. 299, pp. 493–517, 1965.
[12] M. H. Goldhaber, “The attention economy and the net,” First Monday,
1997.
[13] N. Couldry, “Media meta-capital: Extending the range of bourdieu’s field
theory,” in After bourdieu, pp. 165–189, Springer, 2004.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.