Design of Evaluation System for Digital Education Operational Skill Competition Based on Blockchain
Design of Evaluation System for Digital Education
Operational Skill Competition Based on Blockchain
1st Bin Wu
School of Computer Science
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
14307130179@fudan.edu.cn
2nd Yinsheng Li
Software School
Fudan University
Shanghai, China
liys@fudan.edu.cn
Abstract—By letting students simulate operations and games
on a digital education operation system, schools are able to
inspect learning achievement and teaching quality. In digital
education area, we are able to use blockchain technology to
improve competition mode. It’s helpful to simplify process,
improve efficiency and avoid the problem of opaque and fal-
sification messages. Besides, it can provide unchangeable digital
certification of academic achievement. Based on existing research
foundation, against features on related users and services, es-
pecially the standard and trustful problem in competitions and
evaluation mode nowadays, I studied competition mode based on
blockchain technology, designed blockchain’s application mode
and frame, analyzed evaluation criteria and algorithm, designed
an operational skill evaluation model, developed an operational
skill competition evaluation system based on e-business sandbox
and experimented it.
Index Terms—operational skill competition, blockchain, eval-
uation model, digital education, balanced score card, fuzzy AHP
I. INTRODUCTION
In the country’s strong support for skill competitions, var-
ious competitions have been successfully held. The accuracy
and authority of the evaluation in the competition process is
becoming more and more important. The scientific evaluation
is conducive to the healthy development of the competition and
enhance the influence of the competition. Meanwhile, as a new
application mode of distributed data storage, point-to-point
transmission, consensus mechanism, encryption algorithm and
other technologies, blockchain has become the focus of atten-
tion of governments and international organizations in recent
years.
The blockchain has attempted to apply in industries such
as financial services, supply chain, medical health, which
will bring new opportunities for the development of next-
generation information technology. In the field of digital
education, blockchain is also looking for suitable application
scenarios. For the current situation of operational skill com-
petition, the application of blockchain technology to optimize
existing competitions can effectively simplify the competition
process and improve competition efficiency, and solve the
problem of not public system and opaque information, while
providing a credible digital proof of competition results.
This paper focuses on the characteristics of related users
and services in the field of digital education, especially the
standards and credibility of current competition and evaluation
mode, and study a competition mode and operational skill
evaluation model based on blockchain technology, and develop
an operational skill competition evaluation system based on an
e-commerce operation sandbox.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: Section
II shows the related work; Section III describes the preliminary
work. Section IV analyzes the specific situation of the system;
Section V describes the evaluation system and model. Section
VI explains the system design. Section VII concludes the paper
and gives an outlook on future work.
II. RELATED WORK
A. ”Blockchain +” Education Application
”Sony Global Education” is an educational record stor-
age platform based on blockchain technology, which can
store students’ educational experiences and provides credible
certification. Sharples M et al. [1] proposed a distributed
ledger that records not only academic learning activities, but
also informal learning activities, such as competition results,
internship experience, etc. These learning information can be
used as a reference for the employer to examine students’
abilities. Yang Xianmin et al. [2] proposed the application
mode of blockchain in the field of education through the
analysis of financial blockchain, including “distributed storage
and recording of trusted learning data”, sharing data with other
universities or recruitment units, showcasing your academic
performance and professional skills.
B. Skill Competition Mode
Jingzhu Wu [3] pointed out that the current competition has
too much assessment contents. It requires a long preparation
process for students, which also affects the study of normal
courses, making the participation enthusiasm low. Renfang
He et al. [4] pointed out that there is a lack of supporting
incentives and excessive use of competition skills in the current
competition mode. Yafei Yang et al. [5] pointed out that there
is a dishonest phenomenon in the current on-line scoring
system. Unfair scoring in processing systems becomes an
important and challenging issue.
102
2018 IEEE 15th International Conference on e-Business Engineering (ICEBE)
978-1-5386-7992-0/18/$31.00 ©2018 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICEBE.2018.00025
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
C. Evaluation Model
Jackson, TR et al. [6] designed an evaluation tool with ten
evaluation items and five open questions, using a single set of
post-test methods including retrospective pre-test components
to evaluate performance in student competitions and test the
student’s learning process and results. Shen, Yung Chi et
al. [7] proposed an evaluation model applied to enterprise
resource planning (ERP) using balanced scorecard dimen-
sions, linguistic variables and non-additive fuzzy integration
methods. Shoghli, Alireza et al. [8] proposed the application
of balanced scorecard and AHP to evaluate the teaching
achievements of academic departments in universities through
the questionnaires and semi-structured interviews of academic
members and students of the school to obtain data.
D. Survey Conclusion
At present, blockchain technology has made some attempts
in the field of education, which proves the feasibility of the
”blockchain+” education mode, but the application scope is
limited to the record of students’ educational information, and
the data-oriented objects are often employers. There is no use
at the university level, and the data cannot be reasonably used
for evaluation and feedback.
In the skill competition, most of the existing competition
modes are in the form of off-line competitions. It is time-
consuming and laborious for the organizers and participants.
Many competitions have problems such as unscientific com-
petition and unqualified evaluation. On-line competition mode
also has problems such as opaque information and untrustwor-
thiness.
In the evaluation of student competitions, a variety of
evaluation models have been proposed to judge students’
knowledge acquisition and application. For the evaluation
of skills of operating enterprises, the evaluation scores are
often combined with the balanced scorecard to determine the
evaluation indicators.
III. PRELIMINARY
A. E-commerce Sandbox
The e-commerce operation game sandbox is a business
decision-making sandbox system for e-commerce practice.
It simulates and operates an e-commerce platform through
multi-round games, aiming at training and inspecting students’
basic professional knowledge and practical operational skills.
I developed the competition evaluation system based on the
operation sandbox.
B. Trusted Cloud
Trusted Cloud is a third-party public service platform
that provides authentic and reliable enterprise and product
information, network reputation information and so on. This
article combined with Trusted Cloud to provide traceability
information for digital education products.
C. Blockchain
The blockchain was first proposed by Nakamoto in his
paper ”Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System” [9],
which can be regarded as a special distributed database. Each
block is “linked” to the next block using cryptographic signa-
tures, shared and collaborated among anyone with sufficient
authority [10], and collaboratively maintains the authenticity
of ledgers through consensus algorithms.
IV. SYSTEM ANALYSIS
A. User Analysis
The evaluation system is mainly for relevant users of the
operational skill competition. The main users are teachers and
students. The teacher is the leader of the competition mode and
is responsible for the overall management of the competition.
In addition, the teacher needs to configure the service of
the blockchain and understand the specific situation of the
competition, including viewing all experiment data stored by
the blockchain system and their respective ratings. As partic-
ipants in the competition, students will automatically upload
indicator data to the blockchain system during the operation
process, and the evaluation model will give scores according
to the uploaded data. Teachers use the skill competition to test
students’ knowledge and ability to use knowledge.
B. Functional Requirements
The relevant use cases are as follows:
• Blockchain service configuration. Teacher configures the
appropriate blockchain service for each experiment, in-
cluding whether to enable blockchain and configuration
of data items.
• View the data item configuration. After the setting is
completed, the teacher and students are able to view the
configuration options.
• Upload the indicator data to blockchain. During the
operation, students will automatically acquire and upload
data to the blockchain system based on the evaluation
model.
• View the uploaded data. For the data that has been
uploaded to the blockchain, the teacher and students are
supported to view all the data for each round.
• View the evaluation score. The teacher can view the
score of each round of data given by the operational skill
evaluation model.
C. Key Technology
• Blockchain application framework. The system uses
blockchain to assign users’ respective nodes and accounts
in the alliance chain, supports users to apply for cer-
tificates, and can customize the types of certificates for
different needs. The user performs identity verification
when applying for a certificate transaction.
• Operational skill evaluation model. This paper designs an
evaluation model for the operational skill competition in
the field of digital education. Taking e-commerce field
103
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
as an example, the evaluation model defines the first-
level indicator as the enterprise performance. In order
to evaluate the performance not only from the finan-
cial aspect, the balanced scorecard is used for multi-
dimension evaluation, which defines finance, customer,
internal process, learning and growth as four secondary
indicators, and designs a multi-level operational skill
evaluation model based on the specific roles and tasks
of the operation system.
• Indicator weighting technique. In this paper, the fuzzy an-
alytic hierarchy process is used to determine the weights
of the operational skill indicator system. Fuzzy AHP is a
combination of fuzzy comprehensive evaluation method
and AHP, which improves the problems in the AHP.
D. System Design Requirements
The operational skill competition evaluation system needs
to meet not only the above functional requirements, but also
the following requirements:
• Accuracy. The evaluation model of the system needs to
have certain accuracy, so it is necessary to meet the strong
correlation with the score data of the experts.
• Robustness. The system needs to handle errors correctly
during execution, including errors from inside and outside
of the system.
• Reliability. The system needs to run certain functions in
a specific environment at a given time without errors.
• Ease of use. The design of the system needs to consider
the user experience, meet the requirements of simple and
easy operation, and ensure the clear display of related
content.
V. OPERATIONAL SKILL EVALUATION MODEL
A. Operation System Analysis
This paper takes the e-commerce operation sandbox as an
example to design the operational skill evaluation model. The
sandbox lets students simulate and operate an e-commerce
platform. In the decision-making game of the turn-based
system, the students’ vocational skills and knowledge are
cultivated and investigated. In the system, six operational
roles are set up. During the operation, multiple students are
responsible for different roles and cooperate with each other to
complete the corresponding operational tasks.The operational
roles are divided into the following six departments: Commod-
ity Purchasing Department; Network Marketing Department;
Financial Management Department; Customer Service Depart-
ment; Logistics Distribution Department; Website Operation
and Maintenance Department.
B. Evaluation Indicator System
The sandbox simulates the operation of an e-commerce
enterprise, so it is suitable to adopt the balanced scorecard
evaluation system for enterprise performance evaluation. The
first-level indicator is defined as the performance of enterprise,
that is, the target layer. According to the balanced scorecard,
the secondary indicators are defined as four dimensions:
Fig. 1. Evaluation Indicator System
finance, customer, internal process, learning and growth, which
constitute the criterion layer. And for each secondary indicator,
refer to the evaluation indicators for e-commerce in the papers
of Hong Wu [11], Ying Zhou [12], Ximin Jiang [13], Xun Hao
[14], for the specific operational roles and operational tasks of
the e-commerce operation sandbox, to design the following
evaluation indicators:
Financial performance is the ultimate goal of enterprise,
which indicates whether the current strategy adopted is benefi-
cial to the profitability of the company. Financial indicator has
the following indicators: Asset-liability ratio; Net asset growth
ratio; Cash turnover ratio.
Since the main body is an e-commerce enterprise, the
customer group is mainly members. Mastering the customer
is the grasp of the market, and the customer’s situation affects
the sustainable development of the company. The customer
indicator has the following indicators: Comprehensive satisfac-
tion. The average value of customer price satisfaction, brand
satisfaction, and service satisfaction; Consumption Ability;
Member composition. Reflect the number and proportion of
junior, intermediate and senior members.
The internal processes mainly focus on the product perspec-
tive, including the quality of the product itself and the handling
after the problem occurs. The internal process indicator has the
following indicators: Product complaint ratio; Product return
ratio; After-sales service success ratio.
The training of employees and teams determines the fu-
ture development of the company and is the cornerstone
for the company’s sustainable and healthy growth. Learning
and growth indicator have the following indicators: Staff
education level; Talent cultivation expenditures; Team building
expenditures.
Based on the balanced scorecard model, this paper com-
prehensively evaluates the performance level of the company
from four dimensions of finance, customer, internal process,
learning and growth, which is the evaluation of students’
operational skills. The operational skill evaluation indicator
system constructed to cover the above four dimensions is
shown in Figure 1:
104
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I
IMPORTANCE SCALE TABLE
Preferences Expressed in
Numeric Variables
Preferences Expressed in Lin-
guistic Variables
0.5 Equal impertinence
0.6 Moderate importance
0.7 Strong importance
0.8 Very strong importance
0.9 Extreme importance
0.1,0.2,0.3,0.4 Counter comparison
C. Determination of Indicator Weight
Based on the balanced scorecard model, this paper designs
an operational skill evaluation indicator for the e-commerce
operation sandbox. The evaluation indicator is multi-level and
multi-dimensional. It is suitable to use the fuzzy analytic
hierarchy process to determine the indicator weight. The steps
are as follows:
1) Establish a fuzzy complementary matrix: In the fuzzy
analytic hierarchy process, the indicators are compared in
pairs, and the degree of importance is used to quantitatively
represent the fuzzy judgment matrix. The quantity scale is
usually given by the 0.1 to 0.9 scale method in the Table I
[15].
For example, for the first-level indicator “enterprise per-
formance” of the evaluation model, there are four secondary
indicators B1, B2, B3, and B4. By comparing the four indi-
cators in pairs, you can get the fuzzy complementary matrix
between these indicators:
R=
⎡
⎢⎢⎣
B11 B12 B13 B14
B21 B22 B23 B24
B31 B32 B33 B34
B41 B42 B43 B44
⎤
⎥⎥⎦ (1)
Similarly, the respective fuzzy complementary matrices are
constructed for the corresponding three-level indicators of the
four secondary indicators.
2) Consistency test of fuzzy complementary matrices: If the
constructed fuzzy complementary matrix does not have con-
sistency, the matrix can be adjusted according to its properties
to make it consistent. The specific adjustment method [16] is
as follows:
Selecting a row compared to other elements that is more
accurate in judgment, subtracting the corresponding element
of the k (k = 2, 3, ..., n) row from the row element, if the
obtained n differences are constant, there is no need to adjust
the k row element, otherwise adjust it in the following way.
By the property of R, rij = 1 − rji, then r11 + rkk =
r1k + rk1 = 1, then
r11 − rk1 = r1k − rkk = c(cisconstant) (2)
rkj = r1j–c(j = 2, 3, . . . , n, k �= j) (3)
After adjusting each row in turn, the matrix can be adjusted
to a fuzzy consistent matrix.
Fig. 2. System Architecture
3) Hierarchical single ranking: For the fuzzy consistency
matrix, calculate the weight value of each element using the
following weight calculation formula:
Wi =
n∑
j=1
Bij +
n
2 − 1
n(n− 1)
i = 1, 2, · · · , n) (4)
n is the order of R.
4) Hierarchy general ranking: On the basis of hierarchical
single ranking, calculate the relative weight of each three-level
indicator for the first-level indicator. For example, the weight
of the three-level indicator asset-liability ratio relative to the
first-level indicator is:
WC1 = WC1B1WB1A (5)
WC1B1 represents the weight of indicator C1 relative to B1,
WB1A represents the weight of indicator B1 relative to A.
VI. SYSTEM DESIGN
A. System Architecture
The overall architecture of the system is shown in Figure 2.
Teachers and students enter the teacher client and the student
client through the web and desktop respectively. The teacher
client and the student client complete the storage and retrieval
of data through data communication with the database. On
the other hand, the blockchain client is embedded in both the
teacher client and the student client. The blockchain client
communicates with the Spring Boot server through HTTP
requests, and the server uploads the data to and queries the
data from the blockchain system.
The system mainly includes three parts: operation module,
evaluation module and blockchain module. The operation
module is mainly composed of the student client and the
teacher client, which is the system foundation. On the basis
of it, support for blockchain services has been added, mainly
including service configuration of blockchain, and uploading
and obtaining data. The core content of the evaluation module
is the evaluation model designed in this paper. Through the ac-
quiring and processing of the indicator data, a comprehensive
105
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3. System Principle
evaluation of operational skills is obtained. The blockchain
module includes a blockchain system and a server for data
communication, and the other two modules need to rely on
the server for data communication.
B. Blockchain Application Design
The application mode of the blockchain system mainly
includes the following aspects:
• Mode selection: alliance chain. According to the
blockchain technology, the application scenario in the
operation competition system in this paper is defined as
the alliance chain. The alliance chain is limited to the
participations of alliance members, and the permissions
of the blockchain are formulated according to the alliance
rules.
• Participation policy. Suppliers of digital education op-
eration products are required to join the blockchain.
Schools that purchase digital education products can
choose whether to join the blockchain. Third-party trusted
federations can also join the blockchain, such as the
Trusted Cloud in this paper. Each participant will have a
node of their own.
• Operation and maintenance plan. The alliance chain net-
work is jointly maintained by member institutions, and
the digital education product suppliers provide the main
operation and maintenance support, and the users operate
and maintain their respective nodes.
The basic principles of blockchain module application
mainly include decentralized trusted access through digital
education blockchain, operating to enrich product evaluation,
cross-school teaching and competition, and providing product
reputation and traceability through digital education trusted
cloud. The main functions of the server side responsible for
data communication with the blockchain system are shown in
the Table II:
C. Evaluation Module Design
This section will describe the overall process of the eval-
uation model from the acquisition of original data to the
TABLE II
SERVER FUNCTIONS
Function Introduction
Remote service connec-
tion management
Configure and manage blockchain system
remote service and rights management re-
mote service.
Public and private key and
certificate management
Local management of public and private
keys, certificates, etc.
Certificate application New user gets certificate to participate in
blockchain system.
Certificate type applica-
tion
A user holding a certificate initiates a cer-
tificate type transaction in the blockchain.
Build a deposit record A user holding a certificate initiates a
transaction for a certificate record in the
blockchain.
Check whether the trans-
action is confirmed
Query the transaction status based on the
transaction hash value.
evaluation of the school.
1) Raw data acquisition: According to the established
evaluation indicator system, the original data corresponding to
each indicator in the prototype system is selected for upload-
ing. The data of some indicators can be directly obtained, and
some indicators such as membership composition are obtained
through calculation.
2) Data standardization: The data standardization method
in this paper mainly uses the Softmax function.
The Softmax function, also known as the normalized expo-
nential function. It can ”compress” a K-dimensional vector Z
containing any real number into another K-dimensional real
vector σ(Z). Each element has a range between (0, 1) and the
sum of all elements is 1. The representation of this function
is:
σ(z)j =
ezj
K∑
k=1
ezk
for j = 1, . . . ,K. (6)
3) Round results calculation: According to the obtained
evaluation indicator system and its weight, the standardized
data is taken as input, and the final score of the round is taken
as an output to obtain the score of the group in the current
round. The calculation method is:
G0 =
K∑
i=1
AiWi (7)
Ai represents the data corresponding to each indicator, Wi
represents the weight of each indicator, and K is the number
of indicators.
4) Team scores calculation: Each group has multiple
rounds in one experiment, and each round is a progressive
relationship, so as the experiment progresses, the importance
of the later rounds increases gradually. When calculating
the comprehensive team scores, different rounds are given
different weights, and the final group score is calculated as:
G1 =
M∑
i=1
Giwi (8)
106
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Gi represents the scores of each round, wi represents the
weight of each round, and M is the number of rounds.
5) School scores calculation: In order to obtain the rank-
ings of all participating schools to achieve on-line competitions
and games, it is necessary to comprehensively assess the
school’s scores based on the group’s scores. Since the amount
of data uploaded by each school is different, the best K
teams are used. The results are used to assess the school’s
performance, calculated as:
G2 =
K∑
i=1
Gi
K
(9)
Gi represents the scores of each group and K is the number
of teams.
VII. EXPERIMENT
This article will test the evaluation model and system
separately. For the evaluation model, this paper verifies the
accuracy of the evaluation model by comparing the scores
given by the evaluation model with the scores given by the
experts in the competition. For the developed system, this
paper designs the user scenarios of teachers and students
separately, and verifies the technical feasibility of the prototype
system by testing whether various functions are available.
A. Evaluation Model Experiment
1) Experimental Method: The weights of the indicators
and the synthetic weights of the evaluation indicator system
calculated by the judgment matrix given by multiple experts
are showing in Table III:
The experimental data is based on the indicators generated
by the participating teams in the “E-Commerce Operational
Skill” competition of the 2017 National Intelligent Manufac-
turing Vocational Skill Competition. It has a total of 12 teams,
each group of 6 rounds, totaling 72 data.
The correlation coefficient is calculated by the scores given
by the evaluation model and the scores given by the expert to
verify the accuracy of the evaluation model.
2) Experimental Results and Analysis: Under the exper-
imental data, the results calculated by the operational skill
evaluation model proposed in this paper and the expert scores
in the competition are shown in Figure 4. The expert scores
are based on the percentage system, and the model scores are
adjusted according to the calculated scores.
The correlation coefficient between two groups of data is
0.8347, which indicates that there is strong correlation, which
proves that the accuracy of the operational skill evaluation
model proposed in this paper performs well.
B. System Experiment
1) Test Case Design: This article sets the experiment
according to the system users’ use scenarios, and tests the
function indicators of the teacher and student roles in their
own scenarios.
TABLE III
EVALUATION MODEL INDICATOR WEIGHT
A Layer B Layer C Layer Synthetic
Weight
Asset-liability ra-
tio C1 (0.317)
0.105
Financial
B1(0.332)
Net asset growth
ratio C2 (0.417)
0.138
Cash turnover ra-
tio C3 (0.266)
0.088
Overall satisfac-
tion C4 (0.25)
0.063
Customer
B2(0.253)
Consumption
ability C5
(0.425)
0.017
Enterprise
Performance
A1
Membership
composition C6
(0.325)
0.082
Product
complaint ratio
C7 (0.309)
0.074
Internal Process
B3(0.24)
Product return ra-
tio C8 (0.434)
0.104
After-sales
service success
ratio C9 (0.257)
0.02
Employee skill
level C10 (0.417)
0.073
Learning
and Growth
B4(0.175)
Talent cultivation
expenditure C11
(0.317)
0.055
Team building
expenditure C12
(0.266)
0.047
Fig. 4. Scores Given by the Evaluation Model with the Experts
The teacher usage scenarios are mainly tested from three
aspects: blockchain service default configuration; data selec-
tion; viewing history. The student usage scenarios are mainly
tested from four aspects: automatically uploading round data;
viewing blockchain service data item configuration; viewing
data upload history; viewing software version history.
2) Test Results: The teacher use scenario results are shown
in Figure 5. The test results show that the teacher role has the
main functions of default configuration, data selection, and
viewing history. The student use scenario results are shown in
Figure 6. The test results show that the student role has four
main functions: automatic uploading, viewing configuration,
107
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 5. Teacher Test Results
Fig. 6. Student Test Results
viewing data, and viewing version history.
In summary, the test basically completed several main
functions such as data item configuration, data automatic up-
loading, deposit querying, covering the main usage scenarios
of the two roles in the application. The test results are in line
with the expected results, indicating that the evaluation system
proposed in this paper is technically feasible.
C. Design Requirements Test
According to the system design requirements, the accuracy
is verified by the evaluation model experiment before. This
section tests from three aspects: robustness, reliability, and
ease of use.
• Robustness. The system makes a check at the user’s data
input, prompts for input that does not conform to the
specification, or makes modifications to infer the correct
input. The system handles errors in the communication
with the database and blockchain services to ensure that
there are no system crashes due to network connection
errors, blockchain system errors, etc. It meets the require-
ment of robustness.
• Reliability. For the process of creating experiments by
teachers, performing round operations, viewing operation
data and scoring results, 10 sets of complete experiments
were conducted, and no program collapse occurred. It
meets the requirement of reliability.
• Ease of use. The teacher side is a web page that adopts
a side menu bar form, which is easy for the user to
select different functional modules. The student side is
a desktop application. Blockchain and other services are
in the form of a pop-up window, which is convenient for
different students. So the system meets the requirement
of ease of use.
VIII. SUMMARY AND FORECAST
This paper analyzes some shortcomings of the current
competition mode and the application of blockchain in the
field of digital education. In the current skill competition
mode, the problems of unscientific competition and unautho-
rized evaluation make students and teachers less enthusiasm.
And in on-line competition, the information is opaque and
untrustworthy. The current application mode of blockchain is
limited to the record of students’ educational experience. The
purpose is mostly to facilitate the employer’s investigation
of students, and also lacks evaluation and feedback on the
storage data. To this end, this paper studies the blockchain-
based operational skill competition evaluation system, and
designs the blockchain application mode, participation policy,
operation and maintenance plan and so on.
In the aspect of competition based on blockchain, this paper
proposes a competition mode of applying blockchain technol-
ogy based on the digital education operation sandbox. This
mode applies blockchain technology to effectively simplify
the competition process and improve competition efficiency.
At the same time, the credibility of the competition is solved
108
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
by the characteristics of system transparency and data non-
tampering.
In the aspect of operational skill evaluation model, this
paper takes the e-commerce operation sandbox as an example.
According to the balanced scorecard, it proposes an evaluation
indicator system for operational skills, and determines the
weight of each indicator based on the FAHP. A comprehensive
evaluation of operational skills is obtained according to the
round, group, and school calculations.
This paper separately tests the evaluation model and system.
In terms of evaluation model, this paper uses the expert scoring
data in the competition, compared with the data calculated by
the operational skill evaluation model proposed in this paper.
The correlation coefficient obtained is greater than 0.8, which
validates the accuracy of the evaluation model. On the system
side, by simulating the teacher and student scenarios, the
user’s operations and data communication with the blockchain
system are tested, which validates the technical feasibility of
the prototype system.
Research will be conducted in the following aspects.
Through the application of smart contract technology, the
operational system can be effectively combined with the
operational skill evaluation model proposed in this paper, and
the contracts developed by the participants in the alliance chain
can be automatically executed. The currently used FAHP relies
too much on the subjective evaluation of experts. I consider
using machine learning to train the evaluation model, and
continuously optimize the model in the process of increasing
the amount of data.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Sharples and J. Domingue, “The Blockchain and Kudos: A Dis-
tributed System for Educational Record, Reputation and Reward,” Euro-
pean Conference on Technology Enhanced Learning, 2016, pp. 490-496.
[2] X. M. Yang, X. Li, H.Q. Wu and K. Y. Zhao, “The Application
Model and Challenges of Blockchain Technology in Education,” Modern
distance education research, no. 2, pp. 34-45, 2017.
[3] J. Z. Wu, “Analysis of Professional Construction Based on Vocational
Skills Competition,” Modern vocational education, no. 8, pp. 80-81,
2016.
[4] R. F. He and L. N. Lu, “Professional Construction Practice Innovation
Based on Vocational Skills Competition,” Journal of Nanning Vocational
and Technical College, vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 39-42, 2015.
[5] Y. F. Yang, Q. Y. Feng, Y. Sun, and Y. F. Dai, “Dishonest Behaviors in
Online Rating Systems: Cyber Competition, Attack Models, and Attack
Generator,” Journal of Computer Science and Technology, vol. 24, no.
5, pp. 855-867, 2009.
[6] T. R. Jackson and N. G. Popovich, “The development, implementation,
and evaluation of a self-assessment instrument for use in a pharmacy
student competition,” American Journal of Pharmaceutical Education,
vol. 67, no. 2, p. 15P, 2011.
[7] Y. C. Shen, P. S. Chen, and C. H. Wang, “A study of enterprise resource
planning (ERP) system performance measurement using the quantitative
balanced scorecard approach,” Computers in Industry, vol. 75, no. C, pp.
127-139, 2016.
[8] A. Shoghli and K. Roshenas, “Application of Balance Score Card (BSC)
and Analytic Hierarchical Process (AHP) in assessment of academic
departments; A case study in Zanjan School of Pharmacy,” Journal of
Medical Education Development, 2016.
[9] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Con-
sulted, 2008.
[10] the UK Government Chief Scientific Adviser. “Distributed ledger tech-
nology: beyond block chain,” 2016.
[11] H. Wu and B. L. Bang, ”Research on Performance Evaluation of Do-
mestic Listed E-commerce Enterprises,” Journal of Huaihua University,
no. 1, pp. 15-21, 2018.
[12] Y. Zhou, ”Research on Performance Evaluation of E-commerce En-
terprises Based on AHP-Fuzzy Comprehensive Evaluation Method,”
Operation and Management, no. 7, pp. 119-121, 2016.
[13] X. M. Jiang, J. H. Huang, and H. Hui, ”E-commerce Performance
Evaluation Model and its Application,” J Tsinghua Univ ( Sci and Tech
),, vol. 46, no. s1, pp. 1019-1024, 2006.
[14] X. Hao, ”Application of Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) in Enterprise
E-commerce Website Evaluation,” China Computer and Communication,
no. 19, 2017.
[15] J. J. Zhang, ”Fuzzy Analytic Hierarchy Process(FAHP),” Fuzzy Systems
and Mathematics, vol. 14, no. 2, pp. 80-88, 2000.
[16] Y. H. Tao, J. C. Liu, and J. J. Zhang, ”How to Make Fuzzy Consistent
Judgement Matrix of the FAHP,” China Society of Systems Engineering
Annual Meeting, 2002.
109
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:06:02 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.