Secure Data Sharing in UAV-assisted Crowdsensing: Integration of Blockchain and Reputation Incentive
Secure Data Sharing in DAV-assisted Crowdsensing: 
Integration of Blockchain and Reputation Incentive 
Liang Xie1, Zhou Su2, Nan Chen3, and Qichao Xu1 
1School of Mechatronic Engineering and Automation, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, P. R. China 
2School of Cyber Science and Engineering, Xi'an Jiaotong University, China 
3Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, Tennessee Tech University, USA 
Corresponding Author: zhousu@ieee.org 
Abstract-Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) combining with 
crowdsensing technology has been viewed as a promising paradig-
m for performing sensing tasks in extreme scenarios such as 
earthquakes, etc. However, potential security issues could incur 
on data sharing between UAVs and task publishers owing to the 
vulnerability of central nodes and selfishness of distrusted UAVs. 
To cope with these problems, we propose a novel blockchain-
based crowdsensing framework with reputation incentive (BCFR) 
in UAV-assisted mobile crowdsensing. Specifically, we first pro-
pose a novel reputation incentive scheme to choose UAVs with 
a high reputation to perform sensing tasks, thereby protecting 
data sharing between UAVs and task publishers from internal 
attack (i.e., some UAVs with insufficient resources may turn 
into malicious UAVs to provide wrong sensory data to the 
task publishers). Then, we design a blockchain-based secure 
data transmission scheme to securely record data transactions 
of UAVs. Furthermore, since UAVs with limited resources are 
difficult to perform compute-intensive mining tasks, edge com-
puting is incorporated to increase the success probability of block 
creation. The interactions between UAVs and edge computing 
provider (ECP) are modeled as a two-stage Stackelberg game to 
motivate UAVs participating in the block creation process while 
providing high-quality services. Finally, we conduct extensive 
simulations to demonstrate that the proposed BCFR scheme can 
effectively improve successful mining probabilities and utilities 
of UAVs, and ensure the security of data sharing among UAVs 
and task publishers. 
Index Terms-Blockchain, crowdsensing, unmanned aerial ve-
hicle, reputation incentive, Stackelberg game. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Following the advancement in the wireless communication 
technology and sensor technology, crowdsensing has been 
regarded as a promising paradigm that can be widely used 
in the Internet of Things (IoTs). The collection of sensing 
data is allocated to mobile users equipped with smart devices 
embedded with powerful sensors [1]-[3]. However, in extreme 
scenarios such as natural disasters where the infrastructure 
is damaged, traditional crowdsensing technology may not 
provide satisfied service [4]. Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) 
equipped with abundant sensors (e.g., GPS and camera) have 
been widely utilized to perform sensing tasks in dangerous 
areas owing to their low cost and flexible deployment [5], 
[6]. The advantages brought by the UAV are threefold. Firstly, 
UAVs are able to perform sensing tasks efficiently in danger-
ous and extreme scenarios due to their on-demand deployment 
and flexibility. Secondly, UAVs can complement their collected 
sensing data by interacting with nearby UAVs through air-
to-air (A2A) communication, thereby improving the accuracy 
of data. Thirdly, due to the line-of-sight (LoS) propagation 
characteristics and low cost of UAVs, the transmission delay 
and cost of sensing data are effectively reduced. 
Nevertheless, given the broadcast characteristics of the UAV 
networks, central nodes in the UAV networks are vulnerable to 
cyber attacks (e.g., DDoS attack and single point of failure), 
leading to privacy leakage of sensory data collected by UAVs 
[7]. To cope with these issues, extensive research works [8]-
[10] have been conducted to enhance the security of UAV-
assisted crowdsensing in mobile IoT by exploiting blockchain 
technology. However, most of them focus on the external at-
tacks (e.g., DDoS attack and eavesdropping attack) of the UAV 
networks, whereas internal attack (some UAVs are turned into 
malicious UAVs due to benefits) and incentive optimization 
are not considered. 
In this paper, we propose a novel blockchain-based crowd-
sensing framework with reputation incentive (BCFR) in UAV-
assisted mobile crowdsensing to enhance the network se-
curity and ensure high-quality service. Specifically, a novel 
reputation-based incentive scheme is first proposed to motivate 
UAVs with a high reputation to perform sensing tasks, which 
can protect data sharing in the UAV networks from internal 
attack. Furthermore, a blockchain-based data transmission 
scheme is proposed to securely record data transactions of 
UAVs, so as to facilitate efficient and secure data transmission 
in UAV networks. Finally, edge computing is incorporated 
to increase the success probability of block creation, where 
the interactions between UAVs and edge computing provider 
(ECP) are modeled as a two-stage Stackelberg game, which 
can stimulate UAVs to participate in the block creation process 
as well as maximizing participants's utilities. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section 
II reviews the related work. Section III introduces the system 
model. Section IV presents the proposed BCFR scheme. Sec-
tion V proposes the Stackelberg game-based incentive scheme. 
Performance evaluation is shown in Section VI. Section VII 
closes the paper with conclusion. 
978-1-7281-8104-2/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
GL
O
BE
CO
M
 2
02
1 
- 2
02
1 
IE
EE
 G
lo
ba
l C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
ns
 C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
| 
97
8-
1-
72
81
-8
10
4-
2/
21
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
21
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
GL
O
BE
CO
M
46
51
0.
20
21
.9
68
56
32
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:41:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1. 
II. RELATED WORK 
The DAV-assisted crowdsensing in mobile loT has been 
extensively studied. Liu et al. [5] proposed a DAV-assisted 
crowdsensing framework to motivate DAVs to efficiently and 
collaboratively collect sensing data from sensors, where the 
decision-making of the DAVs is determined by the proposed 
deep reinforcement learning model. Zhou et al. [ 6] studied 
path planning and sensing task allocation optimization prob-
lem for DAV-assisted mobile crowdsensing systems in terms of 
energy efficiency, in which the optimization problem is trans-
formed into a two-stage matching problem to solve. Recently, 
blockchain has been extensively explored to enhance the DAV 
network security. Jiang et al. [8] proposed a novel distributed 
and secure DAV-assisted power trading framework, which is 
based on Directed Acyclic Graph and consortium blockchain. 
Xu et al. [9] proposed a Stackelberg game based resource 
pricing and trading scheme while applying blockchain tech-
nology to record trading process, which provides users with 
high-quality services. Gai et al. [10] focused on the problem of 
privacy and security in DAV communication networks, where 
a novel blockchain-based technique is proposed to achieve 
secure and efficient group communications. Different from the 
existing works, the proposed scheme studies the security issues 
of the DAV-assisted crowdsensing considering both internal 
and external attacks. 
III. SYSTEM MODEL 
In this section, we present the BCFR framework including 
network model, communication model, sensing content model, 
and threat model. 
A. Network Model 
As shown in Fig. 1, our network model is composed of 
multiple DAVs, task publishers, an edge computing provider, 
and ground nodes. 
Task publishers: The set of task publishers is denoted by 
,C = { 1, · · · , l, . · · , L}, where each task publisher l chooses 
multiple DAVs based on their reputation value to participate 
in sensing tasks such as environmental monitoring, traffic 
management, data collection, etc. 
DAVs: DAVs equipped with various types of sensors are 
in charge of collecting sensing data from ground nodes. 
The set of the DAVs is denoted as .J = {1, · · · , j, · · · , J} 
and the available resources of each DAV is denoted by 
O = { o1, · · · , Oj, · · · , o J}. In order to increase the success 
probability of block creation, the mining task is offloaded to 
edge computing provider (ECP). Considering different DAVs, 
let N = {N1 , · · · , Nj, · · · , NJ} denote the required mining 
resources of different DAVs. 
ECP: The ECP with plenteous computing resource is 
deployed in base stations to provide edge computing services 
for DAV s. The computing capacity of ECP is denoted as <;max. 
B. Sensing Contend Model 
The set of time-critical sensing tasks issued by the task 
publisher l is denoted as Si = {11, · · · , s1, · · · , 81}, where the 
size of sensing task s1 is D 8 1 • Let the survival time interval of 
sensing task s1 be denoted by [r: ,egin, Ts,] [11], where r:,egin 
and T8 , are the creation time of the sensing task s1 and the 
time-to-live (TTL) of sensing task s1, respectively. Therefore, 
the remaining time of sensing task s1 performed by DAV j 
can be calculated by 
(1) 
where t · s is the time after DAV j completes the sensing task J , l 
s1• We utilize the remaining time of sensing task to quantize 
the accuracy of sensing data. In particular, the accuracy of 
sensing data is negatively related to the remaining time of 
sensing task. Since the larger sensing time means that the 
DAVs are more careful to perform sensing tasks, which results 
in more accurate sensing data. Accordingly, the quality of 
service (QoS) of DAV j for sensing task St which positively 
correlated with the accuracy of sensing data provided is 
expressed as Qj ,s,, which is measured by the remaining time 
of the sensing task. Accordingly, the QoS of DAV j can be 
derived by 
(2) 
C. Communication Model 
Based on [12], the LoS channel model provides a practical 
approximation for the air-to-ground (A2G) and A2A channel 
transmission. As such, the LoS channel model is utilized 
to calculate the channel gains of A2G and A2A, where the 
propagation conditions between DAVs and task publishers 
is approximately free space. To this end, the channel gain 
between DAV j and task publisher l, denoted as gj,l• is 
formulated as 
11;1 
gj z(t)= 2 2 • (3) 
' H2 + [xi (t) - xz] +[Yi (t) - yz] 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:41:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
where ,,;1 represents the channel power gain at the reference 
distance do= 1. [xj(t),yj(t),H] and [xz,yz,O] are the coor-
dinates of DAV j and task publisher l, respectively. 
If DAV j is connected to task publisher l, the uplink data 
transmission rate is characterized as 
Tj,l = log2(l + gj,l (t) Pj 2 ), (4) 
I: 9]', z(t)pj'+v 
j'EJ\j 
where Pj is the transmission power of DAV j. 
I: 9]',z(t)pj' is the jamming power from all DAVs 
j'EJ\j 
except DAV j. v2 is the power of Gaussian noise. 
D. Threat Model 
Threats to Internal Attack: DAVs are rational and selfish 
with the goal of maximizing their utility. As such, some DAVs 
with insufficient resources may become malicious UAVs to 
provide wrong sensory data to the task publishers. 
Threats to External Attack: Since the QoS of each DAV 
in the process of collaboratively transmitting data is recorded 
in the central nodes, attackers may launch attacks such as 
DDoS, to forge and delete these records to obtain more 
profits. Besides, attacker can attack vulnerable UAVs with 
other attacking methods such as single point of failure. 
Threats to Incentive: In the block generation stage, the 
UAVs with limited resources have a low willingness to add 
transaction records to the blockchain due to the additional 
costs of mining, thereby affecting the security of data. 
IV. PROPOSED BCFR SCHEME 
A. Reputation Incentive Scheme for UAVs 
Since UAVs are rational and selfish, some UAVs with 
insufficient resources may become malicious DAVs to illegally 
increase their utility by assisting the attackers to tamper 
with the sensing data. Therefore, we propose a reputation 
incentive scheme to assist task publishers choose the J 
UAVs with top reputation to perform sensing tasks, where 
J = {1, · · · ,3, · · · , J}. Note that the UAVs with higher rep-
utation can provide higher QoS and ensure a secure and 
reliable sensing data transmission process. In the reputation 
incentive scheme, the reputation of task publisher l to DAV j 
is measured by the direct trust of task publisher l to DAV j. 
The detailed implementation of reputation evaluation scheme 
is presented as follows. 
The reputation value of task publisher l to UAV j can be 
obtained from the evaluation rating of sensing tasks completed 
by this DAV in the past. Therefore, when task sz is completed 
by DAV j within time-to-live (TIL) (i.e., t j,si :S f'.1), task 
publisher l provides a positive evaluation rating to DAV j for 
task s1, which can be defined as 
fz~j, 8 1 = log ( 1 + <fJl ,j ,s1 TJ,~ 1 -l) , (5) 
where <fJl,j,si is the adjustment parameter. 
When task sz is not completed by DAV j within TTL (i.e., 
ti,•i > f'.J, task publisher l provides a negative evaluation 
rating to DAV j for task s1, which can be calculated by 
fz~j,s 1 = - log(l + 'l/Jz,j,s1 TJ, ~ 1 -l ) , (6) 
where 'l/Jz,j,si is the adjustment parameter. According to the 
above analysis, the evaluation of task publisher l to UAV j 
can be determined by 
f . _ { log (1 + <fJl,j , s 1 TJ,~ 1 -l), if tj ,s1 <Tsp (?) 
l,J,si - 1 (l + "'' T re -1) th · - og 'f' l ,j ,s1 j,si , o erw1se. 
Since a UAV is not always trusted due to the vulnerability 
of UAV networks, the recent evaluation and past evaluation 
have different weights on the direct trust of task publisher l to 
DAV j. Therefore, the reputation of task publisher l to DAV 
j can be obtained by the following equation 
l Si 
Rz . = _"' 11 . e-p(tr-t;,s1 ) (8) 
,J ISzl LJ, ,J ,Sl ' 
•i=l 
where ISzl is the number of sensing tasks issued by task 
publisher l . p is the decay parameter. tr is the current time. 
B. Blockchain-Based Secure Data Transmission Scheme 
Based on the reputation incentive scheme, J DAVs with top 
reputation are selected by task publisher to perform sensing 
tasks. Nevertheless, there still exists an external attack in 
DAV-assisted crowdsensing system due to the vulnerability of 
DAV networks. Accordingly, a blockchain-based secure data 
transmission scheme is proposed to secure the sensing data 
transmission process. The operation details of the blockchain-
based secure data transmission scheme are presented as fol-
lows. 
I) Initialization: In the beginning, each DAV and ECP be-
come legitimate in the network after registration at global Trust 
Authority (TA). Each legitimate node obtains its public/private 
keys, wallet address, and certificate for information encryption 
and decryption [13]. 
2) Task Publishing and Broadcasting: The task publisher l 
submits the set of sensing task S1 to DAVs, each DAV 3 then 
flies to the location of interest to collect data and generates a 
Tr transaction as well as broadcasting it to the UAV networks. 
The form of Tr is 
Tr= (rn<ll lPk3llPr3lltimel ltimel,, llH (Tr) llsig3), (9) 
where IDd is the hash value of collected data d. H(. ) is t~e 
secure hash function. time is the creation time of Tr. timet 
is the time after DAV 3 completes the task s1• pk3 and PTJ 
are the public and private keys of DAV ], respectively. sig3 
is the signature of UAV ]. 
3) Block generation: To add a new block to the blockchain, 
each DAV 3 competes against each other to find a valid 
proof of work (PoW) similar to Bitcoin [14], which can be 
formulated as 
Hash(<;+ Y) < E, (10) 
where <; is the random value indicating the mining results. Y 
is the hash of previous block header. E is the Po W target hash 
value, which represents the difficulty level. 
4) Consensus process: In the block verification phase, 
the block producer first collects and validates transactions, 
where all valid transactions are packaged into a local block. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:41:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Subsequently, the block producer broadcasts the block to other 
UAVs with high-reputation to verify the correctness of the 
block. Once more than 67% of UAVs agree to block data, the 
newly built block will be added to the blockchain. 
5) Security Analysis: Based on the reputation incentive 
scheme, the UAVs with high-reputation are chosen as miners. 
To this end, all miners are credible that have a small proba-
bility to create fake blocks. Since the new block is verified by 
all UAVs independently, if attackers try to modify the sensor 
data in newly built block, they need to control more than two-
thirds of the UAVs to reach a consensus. Therefore, threats to 
external attack can be well resolved as well as the integrity 
of the data can be guaranteed. 
V. STACKELBERG GAME BASED INCENTIVE SCHEME 
A. Problem Formulation 
In the BCFR, UAVs need to purchase computing resources 
from ECP during the block creation process to increase the 
success probability of block creation. Further, with the its 
limited service capacity, UAVs are discharged from partici-
pating in the blockchain creation process in addition to its 
regular sensing tasks. To this end, we proposed an effective 
Stackelberg game based incentive scheme to stimulate UAVs 
to participate in the block creation process, while maximizing 
the utilities of UAVs and ECP. Specifically, the ECP first 
chooses a pricing strategy. Afterwards, given the pricing 
strategy, UAVs determine the amount of computing resources 
to purchase. Considering the inherent leader-follower relations 
between UAVs and ECP, we model the problem by a two-
stage Stackelberg game. The creation of a new block consists 
of two phases: mining and consensus. In the mining phase, 
miners compete to become the block produce~. Let P3,s be the 
success probability of block creation of UAV j, which depends 
on relative hash power P3,h and block orphaning probability 
!'J ,n· According to [15], the relative hash power P3,h of UAV 
j can be defined as 
No 
PJ,h = No+ ~ N'' 3 E J, P3,h > 0, (11) 
J j'E]\J J 
where E. PJ,h = 1. 
jEJ 
After solving the PoW problem, in the consensus phase, 
UAV 3 has to broadcast the created block to other authorized 
miners. According to [15], the orphaning probability is calcu-
lated by 
(12) 
where Dn is the size of block n. Ab represents the expected 
block arrival rate. D..Tf (Dn) is the relative block propagation 
J,n 
time. 
Therefore, the success probability of block creation of UAV 
3 is calculated by 
P. - p . p. - NJ e-?a~: j,s - j ,h j,n - No + E N~ ' (13) 
J j 'E]\J J 
where Ga and G0 are the channel capacity and coding gain, 
respectively. 
B. Utility Function 
1) Utility of UAV.· In the proposed Stackelberg game, UAV 3 
pays for purchasing computing resources from ECP and sells 
data collected from smart device nodes to task publisher l for 
revenue, which depends on the satisfaction of task publisher 
l. As such, the utility of UAV 3 can be expressed as 
UJ (NJ, BJ) = nJ,si + F (NJ) - C (BJ) , (14) 
where nJ, s is the satisfaction function of task publisher l for 
0 l A 
sensing task s1 performed by UAV j. Considering the TTL 
of sensing tasks, the remaining time of sensing task s1 is 
positively correlated with the satisfaction of task publisher l. 
On the other hand, the satisfaction of task publisher l increases 
as the reputation of task publisher l to UAV 3 increases. 
F(NJ) represents the profits obtained by the successfully 
block creation. After successfully mining, i.e., the first to solve 
the PoW problem, UAV 3 will obtain monetary incentives 
and transaction fees. C(BJ) is the cost function, where B3 
is the fees paid to ECP for purchasing computing resources. 
The price that UAV 3 pays to ECP is proportional to the the 
amount of computing resources purchased by UAV 3. As such, 
the utility function of UAV 3 can be formulated as 
Uc (N' Bo) = (w, +Mo) N 2= N3 N e->rJa~: 
1 J' J J J j + i'E]\J 1' (15) 
+iqQ3,s1 + inR13 -( N3 - 03) B3, 
where LQ is the adjustment parameter to balance the satis-
faction and QoS. tn represents the adjustment parameter to 
balance the satisfaction and reputation of task publisher l to 
UAV 3. W3 is the monetary incentives after successful mining 
of UAV 3. M3 represents the transaction fees after successful 
mining of UAV 3. B3 is the unit computing resources price of 
ECP. 03 is the available resources of UAV]. 
For UAV 3, the objective is to maximize its utility by 
choosing optimal strategy. As such, the optimization problem 
of UAV 3 can be formulated by 
Problem 1: 
(16) 
2) Utility of ECP: The utility of ECP i is the difference 
between the revenue obtained from performing the computing 
task and the energy consumption cost, which can be calculated 
by 
UE (N3,B3) = _E.(N3-03) (B3- c3) 
jEJ 
_E_uE (N3,B3) , 
jEJ 
(17) 
where c3 is the energy consumption cost for performing the 
computing task. 
For ECP, the objective is to maximize its utility by choosing 
optimal pricing strategy. As such, the optimization problem of 
ECP can be formulated by 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:41:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Problem 2: 
mJ:XUE (N3,B3) = .L. (N3 - 03) (B3 -c3), (l8) , jEJ 
s.t. c3 :::; BJ :::; Bmax, 
where Bmax denotes the maximum bounds of the unit com-
puting resources price. 
C. Game Analysis 
We first analyze the optimal strategy of UAV 3 in Problem 
1. The second order differential of UAV UJ (NJ, B 3) with 
respect to NJ is 
fJ2U3(N3,BJ) -2Lj'Ei\JNJ' -Pf'vct 
---=------'=-2----'- = (W3 + M3) 3 e a o 
8N3 (N3 + L1'E]\)NJ1) 
(19) 
We find that 82 u3(N3,B3) < 0 always hold. Thus, the first 
8N'f 
j 
order differential of UAV ]'s utility au; ~d.'BJ) strictly de-
creases with the increases of N3, we have 1 
OUo(No,Bo) (Wo +Mo) >.bDn 
lim J J J = J J e-GaGo -Bo <0. (22) 
Nr-+o 8N3 Lj'Ei\]NJ' 1 -
According to Eq. (22), we find that the utility function ofUAV 
UJ(N3, BJ) is a monotone decreasing function. As such, the 
optimal strategy of UAV 3 is N~ = 0. 
J 
(W+ M·) Pf~ n 2) If Co < Bo < ~ J • ·N e- a 0' we have 
J J j'EJ\j j' 
OUo(No, Bo) (Wo+Mo) d'~n 
lim 1 1 1 = 1 1 e- a o - Bo > 0. (23) 
Nr-+o 8N3 Lj' Ei\3Ni' 1 
According to Eq. (23), we find that U3(NJ, BJ) is a. strictly 
con~ave functio~. ~~·c~~B~)timal ~trategy of UAV j can be 
obtamed by letting aN. = 0, t.e., 
J 
N~ = 
J L Nj' · 
j 1EJ\J 
(24) 
Based on the optimal strategy of UAV ], we then ana-
lyze the optimal pricing strategy of ECP in Problem 2. If 
(W•+M•) >.bDn • 
B1o ~ ~ • ·N e-Ga Go, the utility of ECP for UAV j with 
j 1 EJ\' i 1 
N~ = 0 can be rewritten as 
J 
We can find that the utility in Eq. (25) is a monotonic 
decreasing function, the optimal pricil}f. strategy of ECP can 
(W·+M· ) ~ be obtained by B~ = ~ . ·N e-v-;;v-;;. 
J j 1 EJ\ j 11 
(W•+M•) >.bDn 
If CJo < B]o < ~ .. N e - Ga Go ' the utility of ECP for 
J' EJ\j :i' 
UAV J·. with N ~ = (W3 +M3)~j'EJ\ ]Nj, °"' N 
J ~ - L...J'Ei \J J' can 
B je a o 
be rewritten as 
(26) 
with 
1 -3/ 2 3 -5/ 2 = --ABo - -coAB. < 0 4 J 4 J j . 
(27) 
S. 82u E (N ~, B 3 ) . 11 th th ·1· f . mce aB. is sma er an zero, e ut1 ity unct10n 
J 
of the ECP is a strict concave function, where the o)timal 
pricing strategy can be obtained by solving auE~1;}.,B 3 = O 
with KKT conditions [16]. 1 
VI. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
A. Simulation Setup 
In the simulation scenario, the number of mining device 
follows a uniform distribution in [60, 100]. The energy con-
sumption cost CJ for performing the computing task is set to 
0.1. The reputation of each UAV is randomly picked within 
[0.1, l]. The delay effect K = ~ ~ ~~ is set to 0.5 [17]. The 
fixed monetary reward WJ and transaction reward W3 are set 
as 1.8 and 1.9 [17]. The parameters in utility are lQ = 0.8, 
lR = 0.7. In addition, the effectiveness of the proposed scheme 
is validated by comparing with the following benchmarks. 
• Without edge computing scheme (WEC): There is no in-
teraction between UAVs and ECP. UAVs perform mining 
tasks without purchasing computing resources. 
• Random purchasing scheme (RP): The UAVs cooperate 
with ECP to perform mining tasks, in which UAVs 
randomly determine the amount of computing resources 
to be purchased. 
B. Simulation Results 
Fig. 2 shows the mining successful probability variation 
of UAVs in terms of different number of UAVs. From Fig. 
2, we can observe that the proposed scheme outperform-
s benchmarks, and can obtain a higher mining successful 
probability. In the proposed scheme, each UAV chooses the 
optimal strategy based on the Stackelberg game, which can 
effectively improve the mining successful probability. As for 
the WEC scheme, UAVs only rely on their limited computing 
resources for mining tasks. Therefore, the computationally 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:41:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
.€0.4 
~ i 0.3 
;a 
~ 0.2 
" ~ 
tlll0.1 • wEc 
.S . RP 
~ 0 D Proposal 
60 70 80 90 100 
Number ofUAVs 
Fig. 2. The changes of mining successful probability with different number 
ofUAVs. 
70 80 90 100 
Number ofUAVs 
Fig. 3. The changes of average utility of UAVs with different number of 
UAVs. 
intensive numng tasks are difficult to complete. In the RP 
scheme, UAVs choose the strategy randomly, resulting in low 
mining successful probability. 
Fig. 3 shows the comparison of our proposal with bench-
marks on the average utility of UAVs. From Fig. 3, we can 
see that the average utility of all schemes decreases as more 
UAVs participant in the tasks, and the proposed scheme has the 
highest UAV average utilities to the UAVs. This is because the 
proposed scheme not only considers the cooperation between 
UAVs and ECP but also considers the competition between 
UAVs. 
VII. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we have presented a novel BCFR in UAV-
assisted mobile crowdsensing. Firstly, to protect data sharing 
between UAVs and task publishers from internal attack, a 
novel reputation incentive scheme has been proposed to assist 
task publishers in choosing UAVs with high-reputation to 
perform sensing tasks. Then, we have proposed a blockchain-
based data transmission scheme, where data transactions of 
UAVs are recorded by blockchain technology, thereby en-
suring the security of data sharing. Thirdly, to improve the 
mining successful probabilities while stimulating UAVs with 
limited resources participate in the block creation process, the 
interactions between UAVs and ECP have been modeled as a 
Stackelberg game, where all participants can obtain optimal 
utilities. At last, the simulation results have shown that the 
proposed scheme can ensure the security of data sharing 
between UAVs and task publishers as well as improving the 
utilities of UAVs. For future work, the bounded rationality of 
UAVs in game for strategy selection will be investigated. 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This work is supported in part by NSFC (Nos. U1808207, 
U20A20175). 
REFERENCES 
[l] Y. Wang, Z. Su, N. Zhang, and A. Benslimane, "Learning in 
the Air: Secure Federated Learning for DAV-Assisted Crowdsens-
ing;• IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, doi: 
10.1109ffNSE.2020.3014385. 
[2] L. Li, D. Shi, X. Zhang, R. Hou, H. Yue, H. Li, and M. Pan, 
"Privacy Preserving Participant Recruitment for Coverage Maximization 
in Location Aware Mobile Crowdsensing," IEEE Transactions on Mobile 
Computing, doi: 10.1109ffMC.2021.3050147. 
[3] Y. Li, F. Li, S. Yang, P. Zhou, L. Zhu and Y. Wang, "Three-stage Stack-
elberg Long-term Incentive Mechanism and Monetization for Mobile 
Crowdsensing: An Online Learning Approach," IEEE Transactions on 
Network Science and Engineering, doi: 10.1109ffNSE.2021.3057394. 
[4] Z. Su, Y. Wang, Q. Xu and N. Zhang, "LVBS: Lightweight Vehic-
ular Blockchain for Secure Data Sharing in Disaster Rescue;' IEEE 
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, doi: I0.1109ffD-
SC.2020.2980255. 
[5] C. H. Liu, C. Piao and J. Tang, "Energy-Efficient UAV Crowdsensing 
with Multiple Charging Stations by Deep Learning," IEEE INFOCOM 
2020 - IEEE Conference on Computer Communications, Toronto, ON, 
Canada, 2020, pp. 199-208. 
[6] Z. Zhou, J. Feng, B. Gu, B. Ai, S. Mumtaz, J. Rodriguez and M. Guizani, 
"When Mobile Crowd Sensing Meets UAV: Energy-Efficient Task As-
signment and Route Planning," IEEE Transactions on Communications, 
vol. 66, no. 11, pp. 5526-5538, Nov. 2018. 
[7] Y. Zhou, C. Pan, P. Yeoh, K. Wang, M. Elkashlan, B. Vucetic and Y. 
Li, "Secure Communications for DAV-Enabled Mobile Edge Computing 
Systems," IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 
376-388, Jan. 2020. 
[8] L. Jiang, B. Chen, S. Xie, S. Maharjan and Y. Zhang, "lncentivizing Re-
source Cooperation for Blockchain Empowered Wireless Power Transfer 
in UAV Networks," IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 69, 
no. 12, pp. 15828-15841, Dec. 2020. 
[9] H. Xu, W. Huang, Y. Zhou, D. Yang, M. Li and Z. Han, "Edge 
Computing Resource Allocation for Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Assisted 
Mobile Network with Blockchain Applications," IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, doi: 10.1109ffWC.2020.3047496. 
[10] K. Gai, Y. Wu, L. Zhu, K. R. Choo and B. Xiao, "Blockchain-
Enabled Trustworthy Group Communications in UAV Networks," IEEE 
Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems. 
[11] Z. Su, M. Dai, Q. Qi, Y. Wang, Q. Xu and Q. Yang, "Task Allocation 
Scheme for Cyber Physical Social Systems," IEEE Transactions on 
Network Science and Engineering, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 832-842, 1 April-
June 2020. 
[12] G. Zhang, Q. Wu, M. Cui and R. Zhang, "Securing UAV Communi-
cations via Joint Trajectory and Power Control," IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, vol. 18, no. 2, pp. 1376-1389, Feb. 2019. 
[13] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang and E. Hossain, "En-
abling Localized Peer-to-Peer Electricity Trading Among Plug-in Hybrid 
Electric Vehicles Using Consortium Blockchains," IEEE Transactions on 
Industrial Informatics, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 3154-3164, Dec. 2017. 
[14] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao and Q. Wu, ''Blockchain-Based Se-
cure Spectrum Trading for Unmanned-Aerial-Vehicle-Assisted Cellular 
Networks: An Operators Perspective," IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 
vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 451-466, Jan. 2020. 
[15] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, D. Ye, D. I. Kim and J. Zhao, "Toward 
Secure Blockchain-Enabled Internet of Vehicles: Optimizing Consensus 
Management Using Reputation and Contract Theory," IEEE Transac-
tions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 2906-2920, March 
2019. 
[16] Q. Xu, Z. Su and R. Lu, "Game Theory and Reinforcement Learning 
Based Secure Edge Caching in Mobile Social Networks;' IEEE Trans-
actions on Information Forensics and Security, vol. 15, pp. 3415-3429, 
2020. 
[17] S. Guo, Y. Dai, S. Guo, X. Qiu and F. Qi, "Blockchain Meets Edge Com-
puting: Stackelberg Game and Double Auction Based Task Offloading 
for Mobile Blockchain," IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 
vol. 69, no. 5, pp. 5549-5561, May 2020. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:41:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.