Reciprocal Crowdsourcing: Building Cooperative Game Worlds on Blockchain
Reciprocal Crowdsourcing:
Building Cooperative Game Worlds on Blockchain
Kun Xin1,2, Shuyi Zhang3, Xiao Wu3, and Wei Cai1,2
1School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen, China
2Shenzhen Institute of Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Society, Shenzhen, China
3White Matrix Inc., Nanjing, China
Email: kunxin@link.cuhk.edu.cn, {shuyizhang, xiaowu}@matrixdapp.com, caiwei@cuhk.edu.cn
Abstract—Crowd intelligence has become increasingly popular
during recent years, thanks to the exploding global Internet
usage. However, most crowd intelligence platforms ceased to
operate due to the untrustworthy data or lack of motivated
participants. The blockchain technologies propose decentral-
ization as the potential solution to this dilemma. This work
introduces reciprocal crowdsourcing, a novel decentralized co-
operative crowdsourcing model powered by the blockchain to
strengthen trust among crowd intelligence participants, who
perform transparent collaborative work in the system thereafter.
To validate our proposal, we implemented “Cell Evolution”, a
blockchain game, in which the players can build cooperative
game worlds on the blockchain with reciprocal crowdsourcing.
Index Terms—Crowd Intelligence, Crowdsourcing, Blockchain,
Game, Decentralization
I. INTRODUCTION
Playing an increasingly important role in the era of artificial
intelligence (AI), the crowd intelligence [1] is a paradigm
that attracts, aggregates and manages massive participants to
complete challenging tasks in a competitive or cooperative
manner. Thanks to the popularization of the Internet, crowd
intelligence became a practical solution with the support of
online crowdsourcing [2]. In a conventional crowdsourcing
system, task initiators increase productivity and reduce labor
costs by splitting the project overall goals into tiny tasks
and disseminate them to massive participants. Because crowd-
sourced participants are diverse in terms of backgrounds, the
crowdsourced data for crowd intelligence can better represent
distinct user groups, thus, enhance the outcome of AI training.
However, most online crowd intelligence platforms cease
to operate due to the following issues. First, the participants
may not be well motivated in completing the tasks, since the
incentive for most tasks is insufficient. However, the increasing
reward for the tasks will significantly reduce the cost efficiency
of the system. Second, the quality of completed tasks is diffi-
cult to be measured. In fact, the state-of-the-art crowdsourcing
platforms are still struggling with the authenticity of the
submitted data from the participants. Third, the crowdsourcing
outcome may not be trustworthy, since it may be manipulated
by the task initiators. In fact, existing platforms assume that
the task initiators are always honest users in the system, since
they are the owners and the users of the crowdsourced data.
However, this assumption is not always true in recent emerging
scenarios. For example, a public opinion poll is a typical
application that massive participants’ decisions are submitted
and summarized as an overall outcome. However, the poll
results are not always accepted by the public, since the task
initiator has the intention to tamper the data for their own
benefits.
The keys to addressing these issues are the ownership
and auditability of the crowdsourced data. Here we define
reciprocal crowdsourcing, a special crowdsourcing platform
in which the participants are not only the data contributors
but also the beneficiaries. In this work, we employ blockchain
technologies [3], the promising decentralized infrastructure,
to facilitate reciprocal crowdsourcing. With the blockchain’s
feature of immutable data and transparent smart contract, we
envision a decentralized crowd intelligence platform that the
participants can retain the ownership of their work and the
whole procedure of crowdsourcing can be audited by the
participants and third parties.
In order to validate our idea, we designed and implement
“Cell Evolution”, a game with reciprocal crowdsourcing con-
cept over Nebulas blockchain1. Through the gameplay, we
collected the individual players’ intelligence, represented as
cell data, to form the crowd intelligence of the game world.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: We
first survey the related work in Section II before we present
the propose reciprocal crowdsourcing system in Section III.
Afterward, we illustrate our design of Cell Evolution, in
Section IV and analyze the preliminary results from online
players in Section V. Section VI concludes this paper.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Blockchain
Blockchain technology becomes the fundamental of the
decentralized system [4] since BitCoin was introduced by
Satoshi Nakamoto in 2008. As a core mechanism for this type
of cryptocurrency, blockchain technology gained extensive
attention from the crowds with the success of Bitcoin in recent
years. In the process of bitcoin formation, a block is a storage
unit that records the transaction information of all the block
nodes in a certain period. Each block is linked by the hash
algorithm, and the latter block contains the hash value of
the previous block. As the information exchange expands, the
1https://nebulas.io/
2020 IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics (ICCE)
978-1-7281-5186-1/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEEAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:12:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
blocks, one after another are successively connected like a
chain, which is called Blockchain. In short, blockchain can be
seen as a public ledger, in which all the transaction information
is reserved in a chain of blocks [5]. Not only applied in cryp-
tocurrency design, blockchain has other potential applications:
Escrow service [6], register of electronic voting [7], recording
personal private data [8], game design [9].
B. Crowdsourcing
Crowdsourcing is a process of organizing labor, where firms
parcel out work to some form of (normally online) community,
offering payment for anyone within the crowd who completes
the tasks the firm has set [2]. Through crowdsourcing, crowd
intelligence system can be implemented. Today, more and
more companies tend to select the crowdsourcing as a way to
outsource their tasks or experiments to the crowd, on account
of a mass of labors/rich samples that can be obtained via
internet [10].
In general, a human intelligence-based crowdsourcing sys-
tem consists of three basic elements: Operator/initiator, partic-
ipants/workers, and centralized crowdsourcing program [11].
The Initiator of the crowdsourcing activity will decompose its
work to small tasks and post them to the designed centralized
crowdsourcing program. The centralized crowdsourcing pro-
gram will provide affordances to attract potential users into this
activity. Then the participants will receive the tasks and resolve
it for certain rewards. This type of system is widely applied
in data collection. Take the paper published in the Nature
magazine in 2018 as an example: researchers outsourced the
image-classification task to a mainstream video game (EVE
Online) as a mini-game, players would finish the task (mini-
game) voluntarily for some bonus [12]. Through that system,
33 million classifications of patterns were gathered from
322,006 players, which was hard to achieve through traditional
outsourcing methods.
C. Motivations of Crowdsourcing Activity
Compared with outsourcing way, studies have shown that
crowdsourcing costs are lower, the risk is lower, and problems
are solved with more quality and alternative methods [13].
Successful crowdsourcing needs an active crowd of partici-
pants, so the motivation of the crowdsources is crucial [14].
According to previous research, the motivations and reasons
that lead people to participate in the crowdsourcing activities
can be classified as two classes–extrinsic and intrinsic [15].
For example, extrinsic motivations through the crowdsourcing
activity, participants can get the monetary reward or physical
fitness; intrinsic motivations they can get some abilities, feel
satisfied or achieve social recognition [16] [17]. Hence, it’s
necessary for organizers to design an attractive crowdsourcing
system that promotes and facilitates the formation of positive
motivations towards crowdsourcing tasks and suit to the form
of the activity [18]. Google Ingress and Pokemon Go are both
successful examples of this domain [19]. This type of game
crowdsources players to label the concrete address on the
map. After setting some virtual substances around the map,
the player will go outside and search for them. After every
correct mark, players are rewarded with some unique items,
which will be the affordances to get them involved.
III. THE RECIPROCAL CROWDSOURCING PLATFORM
Based on the blockchain, we put forward the reciprocal
crowdsourcing system. In contrary to conventional centralized
crowd intelligence systems, out framework innovates from
three perspectives: 1) The permanent ownership: Through
our decentralized framework, participants are more likely to
join in the crowd intelligence activity for the permanent
ownership of their work. Moreover, their data has the potential
to be reused in other crowd intelligence works or help to
recruit the veterans. 2) Trust: Every piece of the information
and the operation over the data can be audited through the
blockchain by anyone at any time, which makes our obtained
data dependable. This feature can bring trust to participants,
the operator, and the third party. 3) Cooperation: the openness
of data in the system provides an opportunity for the partic-
ipants to observe other participants’ inputs, thus, encourage
potential collaborative work in crowdsourcing.
Fig. 1. Conceptual Framework of Reciprocal Crowdsourcing Platform
Fig. 1 depicts the conceptual framework of the proposed
reciprocal crowdsourcing platform. Different from existing
blockchain-based crowdsourcing systems [11], the participants
and third parties have access to the result data sets, which make
the above-described features possible.
A. Permanent Ownership
In the existing crowd intelligence program, participants
complete the assigned tasks for monetary rewards or virtual
prices in certain games. However, the monetary reward is
usually set as a very small amount, which may not provide
sufficient incentive for task workers. On the other hand, the
virtual prices are just a series of virtual assets, which are
often limited to the internal circulation of a game or a project.
Hence, the task participants may not continue to contribute
once they get bored from the particular appliction.
With the blockchain, things can be completely different.
Once the virtual assets are written on the blockchain, the work-
ers’ accounts, work results, and rewards can all be linked to the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:12:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
worker’s blockchain address. The participants have permanent
ownership of the address and the assets underneath it. These
data become participants’ everlasting owned property rather
than temporary itemswhich will increase their engagement.
It is also simple for developers to reuse the assets of other
crowd intelligence activity for secondary transformation or
cross-program reuse, because the worker owns the unique ad-
dress with his/her assets forever [20]. For instance, KittyRace
2 is a racing game based on CryptoKitties tokens. The player
logs in with his own Ethereum address, and the game will
automatically get all the players’ CryptoKitties characters for
the car racing.
At the same time, there is another benefit. In previous crowd
intelligence programs, new projects often need to spend a lot
of effort into recruiting new users. In contrast, our system
can reduce these promotion costs. For example, the above-
mentioned KittyRace can convert the players in CryptoKitties
in a short time at a very low price. Similarly, the new crowd
intelligence program can get users from the existing one easily
through our system.
B. Trust
Most of the time, participants and developers tend to stand
in opposition to each other in the crowd intelligence program.
One wants to find an imbalance of the activities to earn
reputations or rewards as more as possible. The other side
adjusts the parameters of the program by changing the program
mechanism to extract the value of the user. However, through
the blockchain, the relationship between the developer and the
worker will change substantially, our system can bring trust
to each other. The rule and other information of the crowd
intelligence program will be written to the smart contract in
the blockchain. Everyone can check them at any time. And
participants and developers can neither change it later from
one side. Participants can clearly understand the meaning and
value of their work. The operator doesn’t need to worry about
the plug. Transparency information will bring trust to each
other. Participants will enjoy the task more naturally.
For the third party, they do not need to worried about
the authenticity of second-hand data or the results from the
crowdsourcing operator. The operator also doesn’t need to
think about how to verify their data to the third party. Through
our system, the third party can trace every piece of data in the
blockchain directly.
C. Cooperation
In the centralized crowd intelligence activity, designers just
only design activities in certain areas to attract the crowd
to join in. They set affordances for the user, and get what
they need in back. The user just goes through the activity
progress mechanically and gets positive emotion for himself.
For instance, the worker chases the high points or scores just
for his psychic gratification. Some affordances like leader-
board or ranking just only provide a way for workers to
2https://kittyrace.com/
show their work. No matter how professional a worker is,
he has no influence on others. In previous work, the internet
is mainly used to connect every worker with the server or
transport information of task and feedback between them.
However, the Internet should be applied like a net to connect
users, instead of just sharing information between two nodes.
The possibility that interaction between users can promote
engagement and new information is neglected. Studies have
shown that collective intentions play a key role in cooperative
crowdsourcing [21]. Very few researches study the effects
of cooperative crowdsourcing. In our system, we provide a
way for participants to interact with each other. Through the
decentralized attributes of blockchain, the information that
participants upload to the blockchain can change or be part of
the program. For instance, the participants may meet their trace
in the new round of tasks, even in another activity in the same
system. Although there may exist some insubordinate workers,
loyal workers will spontaneously maintain the balance of the
program, help developers to acquire users, extend the life cycle
of the program, and build the entire community. All these can
form a small but more real society. We do not need to worry
about if the participants are rational, because previous research
has helped us to verify that operators are more likely to achieve
higher profits in a larger group of workers whose average level
of cognition is low [22]. It can attract more participants to join
in because workers can cooperate to change the world by their
own hands, which is a brand-new experience.
IV. THE GAME DESIGN OF CELL EVOLUTION
The key idea behind our approach is to apply blockchain to
crowd intelligence design by following our proposed platform.
Based on the reciprocal crowdsourcing system, we propose a
program named “Cell Evolution”, which can be accessed at
http://www.cellevo.net:9306/. In this game, we crowdsource
the players (individual intelligence) to construct the game
world (crowd intelligence) together.
A. Basic Elements
Cell Evolution is built on the Nebulas chain. As shown
in Fig. 2, the top panel on the homepage is an information
bar, showing the current status of the cell. The survival days
represent the number of days your cells have survived within
the game. The goal for the player is to survive as long as
possible to get a higher score. The cell numbers represent the
quantity of cells the player owns, and the target is to cultivate
as many cells as possible. The external environment will get
harsher along the survival days, and the high-risk environment
will threaten the life cycle. Reproductivity determines the cell
numbers of each reproduction, while the Adaptability deter-
mines the success rate of mutation. Survivability determines
the resistance of cells against the external environment. The
life cycle determines the cell’s survivability. The player can
try to go dormant before the end of the life cycle.
The left bottom area is a set of buttons, with which the
players cultivate their cells through various methods: Divide,
Evolve, Mutate, Sleep.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:12:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 2. Screenshot of Cell Evolution
Divide can increase the number of cells. Evolve and mutate
can enhance reproductivity, adaptability, and survivability un-
der particular conditions. There are three modes of mutation.
Sleep can restore the life cycle, and the number of recoveries
is related to survivability and the external environment. Cell
inheritance can get partial world ability at the beginning of
the game. Apoptosis can sacrifice itself and donate the main
ability of the cell to the world.
Every detail of the world can be displayed to the players
by clicking the “World Data” button, as shown in Table. I,
so that players can observe the appearance of each world
and each cell group data. This feature can better demonstrate
social gameplay and more clearly recognize the meaning of
coexistence.
TABLE I
WORLD DATA INFORMATION
World Data
number of cells
final evaluation title
world adaptability
world survivability
world reproductivity
external environment
world survival day
overall score
world number
Players need to balance the adaptability, reproductivity, and
survivability in the game. When the player finished the game,
they can choose to do the DNA merging, this function will
upload the data into the whole ethnic group. If the whole ethnic
group have unbalanced data, the current whole world will be
destroyed.
B. Implementation for Key Concepts
Permanent ownership: First of all, we can get the data
of cell groups as shown in Fig. 3 from the blockchain,
which represents the various attributes - cell group’s id, cell
creator, number of cells, final evaluation title, adaptability,
survivability, reproductivity, external environment, survival
day, overall score, world’s id - of the cells. Each piece of data
will bound to the player’s unique address. Users can also get it
through the world or cell information buttons on the website,
and even query the upload time and player address of a certain
fusion from nebulas directly (https://explorer.nebulas.io/#/
address/n1gFbEA3c8W6fAHgEhCNYoYBDyN7jCNmG7T),
as shown in Fig. 4. All these can also prove that our data is
real and trustworthy.
Fig. 3. Example of cell group’s information in the blockchain
Trust: Cell evolution consists of multiple contracts. The
specific rules of the game have been written on the smart
contract before the game coming into use, players can check
it by themselves on the Nebulas. For example, Fig. 5 shows
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:12:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 4. Screen shot of a cell group’s information in the blockchain
the part of the rule of how the world’s title is judged. Players
can more selectively develop their cells to guide the future
way of the world and get the title that they prefer. This can
provide trust to the players, and make the systems results more
reliable.
Fig. 5. Part of the smart contract
Cooperation: Players need to use their strategies to develop
unique cells as many as possible. Overall thousands of titles
for cells can be obtained in the game. Until the end of the
game, the player will be asked whether to get cell fusion
(upload his cell groups information to the blockchain). After
he decides to do so, the world (external environment) will
be changed, maybe in a good way or a bad way. Every
attribute of the world is the nonlinear combination of the
trait of each cell group. The later player of this world will
be influenced by his work. Millions of the cells will decide
the fate of the world. For instance, some players would like
to be world guardians, they will adjust the attribute of cell
group carefully to repair and extend the world life; some
players would like to be world destroyers, they will upload
toxic cells and enjoy the fun of destroying. The function of
cell inheritance can best represent this point. The participant
can choose to inherit some characteristic of the world that has
been changed by other players. The world database is not a
scoreboard, every participants’ fusion is related to the survival
of the entire ecological group. Only balance the inner groups
reproductivity, adaptability, and survivability, then the whole
group can develop and survive.
V. RESULT ANALYSIS
According to the data on the Nebulas blockchain, 331
players wrote their cell groups into the blocks by the end of
July 2019. The total 1684 cell groups enriched 147 random
virtual game worlds. All the data can be traced to the Nebulas
blockchain with our game address.
A. Game Difficulties
Fig. 6. The number of cell groups and distinct creators over survival days
Fig. 6 depicts the number of cell groups and distinct creators
with certain survival days. It can be found that most of the cell
groups can not survive for more than 15 days, while there are
a small group of elite players who can make their cells live
for more than 90 days. Apparently, there exists polarization
among the participants. These results can help us to improve
the system later to make the difficulty of the game smoother.
B. Returning Players
Fig. 7. Cell fusion times of the creators
Fig. 7 plots the proportion of the cell fusion times of the
players. We observe that only 36.42% of the players get one
fusion. Every fusion consumes the gas in the player’s wallet, so
repetitive cell fusions mean the player is willing to join that
program again for some price. There are nearly 2/3 players
(63.58%) who would like to participate in the game one more
time. This proves that most of the players are interested in the
game and involved in “Cell Evolution”.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:12:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
C. Overview of Cooperative Worlds
Fig. 8. The proportion of the world’s composition
Through the contribution of all the players, we can get 147
unique worlds. Fig. 8 shows 147 worlds with different com-
binations of the three main attributes - adaption, survivability,
and division, which are the nonlinear combination of the fusion
cell groups. Compared with the traditional way to generate
a game world by the neural network, our model results are
closer to the real world, which can be regarded as a small
society, so these data can be the template for other game
worlds design. And the decentralized attributes of our crowd
intelligence systems can guarantee the authenticity of our data
because they can check every state and change of every piece
of data through the blockchain.
VI. CONCLUSION
We present a decentralized crowd intelligence system design
method - Reciprocal Crowdsourcing - in this work. Based on
the decentralized crowd intelligence system, participants can
fully control what they own in the program just like their
property, which can increase their engagement. Transparent
information can be transferred between the program manager
and participants, which brings trust to each other. The ability
for participants to interact with each other provides a new way
for collective innovation, which can also be used to improve
the crowd intelligence system itself. If a third party wants to
use the results of the crowd intelligence activity, our system
can ensure the authenticity and traceability of the data. We
implement the approach as a game named “Cell Evolution”,
and the results show that the method is effective.
One remaining issue of our systems design is that it is
hard to measure the motivational effects quantitatively. So
we recommend the later research can borrow the idea from
philosophy and psychology as a basis to explain what the
behavior outcomes can reflect. In future work, we plan to
design another crowd intelligence program, in which users can
use the information of the cell group in “Cell Evolution”.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work was supported by the Shenzhen Institute of
Artificial Intelligence and Robotics for Society (AIRS).
REFERENCES
[1] Y. Yang, J. Wang, W. Huang, G. Li, and L. Huang, “Crowd intelligence-
based interactive creation platform,” in 2019 IEEE 19th International
Conference on Software Quality, Reliability and Security Companion
(QRS-C), pp. 275–280, IEEE, 2019.
[2] P. Whitla, “Crowdsourcing and its application in marketing activities,”
Contemporary Management Research, vol. 5, no. 1, 2009.
[3] S. Nakamoto et al., “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,”
2008.
[4] W. Cai, Z. Wang, J. B. Ernst, Z. Hong, C. Feng, and V. C. M. Le-
ung, “Decentralized applications: The blockchain-empowered software
system,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 53019–53033, 2018.
[5] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H.-N. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “Blockchain
challenges and opportunities: A survey,” International Journal of Web
and Grid Services, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 352–375, 2018.
[6] A. Khan, “Bitcoin–payment method or fraud prevention tool?,” Com-
puter Fraud & Security, vol. 2015, no. 5, pp. 16–19, 2015.
[7] D. Bradbury, “In blocks we trust [bitcoin security],” Engineering &
Technology, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 68–71, 2015.
[8] D. Maxwell, C. Speed, and D. Campbell, “’effing’the ineffable: opening
up understandings of the blockchain,” in Proceedings of the 2015 British
HCI Conference, pp. 208–209, ACM, 2015.
[9] D. Vujičić, D. Jagodić, and S. Ranić, “Blockchain technology, bitcoin,
and ethereum: A brief overview,” in 2018 17th International Symposium
INFOTEH-JAHORINA (INFOTEH), pp. 1–6, IEEE, 2018.
[10] J. Howe, “The rise of crowdsourcing,” Wired magazine, vol. 14, no. 6,
pp. 1–4, 2006.
[11] M. Li, J. Weng, A. Yang, W. Lu, Y. Zhang, L. Hou, J.-N. Liu,
Y. Xiang, and R. H. Deng, “Crowdbc: A blockchain-based decentralized
framework for crowdsourcing,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and
Distributed Systems, vol. 30, no. 6, pp. 1251–1266, 2018.
[12] D. P. Sullivan, C. F. Winsnes, L. Åkesson, M. Hjelmare, M. Wiking,
R. Schutten, L. Campbell, H. Leifsson, S. Rhodes, A. Nordgren, et al.,
“Deep learning is combined with massive-scale citizen science to
improve large-scale image classification,” Nature biotechnology, vol. 36,
no. 9, p. 820, 2018.
[13] K. Girotra, C. Terwiesch, and K. T. Ulrich, “Idea generation and the
quality of the best idea,” Management science, vol. 56, no. 4, pp. 591–
605, 2010.
[14] Y. Zhao and Q. Zhu, “Evaluation on crowdsourcing research: Current
status and future direction,” Information Systems Frontiers, vol. 16, no. 3,
pp. 417–434, 2014.
[15] J. Hamari, D. J. Shernoff, E. Rowe, B. Coller, J. Asbell-Clarke, and
T. Edwards, “Challenging games help students learn: An empirical
study on engagement, flow and immersion in game-based learning,”
Computers in human behavior, vol. 54, pp. 170–179, 2016.
[16] Y. C. Zhao and Q. Zhu, “Effects of extrinsic and intrinsic motivation
on participation in crowdsourcing contest,” Online Information Review,
vol. 38, no. 7, p. 896, 2014.
[17] H. Zheng, D. Li, and W. Hou, “Task design, motivation, and partici-
pation in crowdsourcing contests,” International Journal of Electronic
Commerce, vol. 15, no. 4, pp. 57–88, 2011.
[18] B. Morschheuser, J. Hamari, J. Koivisto, and A. Maedche, “Gamified
crowdsourcing: Conceptualization, literature review, and future agenda,”
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, vol. 106, pp. 26–43,
2017.
[19] M. Kavaliova, F. Virjee, N. Maehle, and I. A. Kleppe, “Crowdsourcing
innovation and product development: Gamification as a motivational
driver,” Cogent Business & Management, vol. 3, no. 1, p. 1128132,
2016.
[20] W. Cai and X. Wu, “Demo abstract: An interoperable avatar framework
across multiple games and blockchains,” in 2019 IEEE Conference on
Computer Communications Demos (INFOCOM 2019 DEMOS), Paris,
France, 2019.
[21] H.-T. Tsai and R. P. Bagozzi, “Contribution behavior in virtual com-
munities: Cognitive, emotional, and social influences.,” Mis Quarterly,
vol. 38, no. 1, 2014.
[22] Q. Shao, M. H. Cheung, and J. Huang, “Multimedia crowdsourcing with
bounded rationality: A cognitive hierarchy perspective,” IEEE Journal
on Selected Areas in Communications, 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:12:50 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.