An Optimal Incentive Mechanism for Blockchain-enabled Content Caching in Device-to-Device Communication
An Optimal Incentive Mechanism for Blockchain-enabled Content Caching in 
Device-to-Device Communication 
 
1st Yasin Habtamu Yacob 
School of Computer Science and Engineering 
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China 
Chengdu, China 
habtishyacob@gmail.com 
2nd Ruijie Ou 
School of Computer Science and Engineering 
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China 
Chengdu, China 
ORJ@uestc.edu.cn
 
3rd Guolin Sun* 
School of Computer Science and Engineering 
University of Electronic Science and Technology of China 
Chengdu, China 
guolin.sun@uestc.edu.cn 
 
 
4th Wei Jiang 
Department of Electrical and Information Technology 
Technische University, TU 
Kaiserslautern, Germany 
wei.jiang@dfki.de 
 
Abstract—Cache-enabled device-to-device (D2D) 
communication is a promising approach to minimize data 
traffic and reduce communication costs and extra resource 
consumption. However, mobile user equipments (MUEs) have 
resource scarcity problems for storage, computation capacity, 
and battery lifetime. Due to these limited resources among 
untrusted MUEs, it becomes challenging to keep large content 
caches, maintain service quality, and provide secure 
transaction exchanges in D2D communication. Thus, 
Blockchain-enabled D2D content caching (BDCC) has 
recently become a new approach for caching popular content 
locally and sharing it with other MUEs securely and 
efficiently in a decentralized manner. Nevertheless, the 
existing BDCC system lacks an optimal incentive mechanism 
that motivates content providers (CPs) and content 
requestors (CRs) to maximize profit and utility. Hence, to 
address these problems, we introduce an efficient pricing-
based incentive scheme that uses a two-stage Stackelberg 
game to allow the CPs and CRs to adjust the optimal strategy 
while maximizing their profit continually. Finally, the 
simulation results show that the proposed incentive scheme 
outperforms the baseline schemes in terms of the utility of CPs 
and CRs and the cache hit and miss ratio of the BDCC system. 
Keywords- Blockchain; Content caching; Incentive mecha- 
nism; D2D communication; Stackelberg game. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In recent years, there has been an enormous increase 
in the digital data explosion, which is also expected to 
increase due to the emergence of various data-intensive 
applications and services. The existence of access to multiple 
intelligent mobile devices and digital opportunities creates 
a considerable burden on the management of the contents 
and an increase in wireless data traffic. On the other hand, 
mobile users demand more content with extensive data size, 
high quality of services (QoS), and real-time multimedia 
content sharing. It requires high transmission bandwidth and 
massive storage devices to manage the high volume of data. 
Otherwise, this content volume leads to high congestion of 
data traffic at the content servers and reduces the QoS of 
the network. Thus, content caching is a promising technique 
for most wireless communications to manage the explosive 
growth of wireless content and services and can significantly 
improve the network throughput [1].  
Caching the popular content using cache-enabled 
device-to-device (D2D) communications alleviate the 
heavy burden of backhaul links due to multiple content 
requests from mobile user equipments (MUEs) and 
improves the performance of wireless networks in terms of 
throughput and energy efficiency [2]. Several studies have 
been done on content caching in D2D communication 
environments to improve various performance issues, 
focusing on jointly optimizing hit probability and 
maximizing the cache-aided throughput defined by the 
density of successfully served user requests [3]. However, 
the works discussed have not mentioned the limitations of 
D2D communications, including security, scalability, and 
privacy-related issues in their studies. 
Recently, many research works have proposed 
blockchain technology to address the security and other 
performance issues of D2D content caching. Blockchain is 
a reliable digital system that provides decentralized, 
immutable, and secure communication among the dishonest 
nodes [3]. It has been identified as a promising distributed 
transaction management platform for content caching and 
sharing in D2D communication, which is also more 
prominent in health care, research centers, business 
enterprises, digital industries, and others [5]. Blockchain-
enabled D2D content caching (BDCC) supports content 
storage, management, and sharing with MUEs. Besides, it 
keeps the privacy of the content and helps the BDCC 
system resist malicious attacks that occur in D2D caching 
networks [6]. However, the works discussed do not specify 
the incentive mechanism used for the content provider 
(CP) and content requestor (CR) nodes of the content 
caching process. These nodes may not participate in the 
consensus process unless they receive the satisfying rewards 
to compensate for their consumption of resources such as 
batteries, computing power, storage services, and other 
related costs [7]. Hence, designing an efficient incentive 
mechanism is essential to encourage the validator nodes to 
participate in the consensus process and CPs to provide 
sufficient content cached in the BDCC system. 
Having identified the mentioned issues of the BDCC 
systems and inspired by its future promising applications, 
we are motivated to propose a novel incentive mechanism 
that encourages the CPs and CRs to execute more content 
237
2022 International Conference on Computing, Communication, Perception and Quantum Technology (CCPQT)
978-1-6654-7020-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/CCPQT56151.2022.00048
20
22
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
pu
tin
g,
 C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
n,
 P
er
ce
pt
io
n 
an
d 
Q
ua
nt
um
 T
ec
hn
ol
og
y 
(C
CP
Q
T)
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
70
20
-9
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
CC
PQ
T5
61
51
.2
02
2.
00
04
8
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
caching processes. This paper adopts the Stackelberg game 
model to design the incentive mechanism to help the CPs 
provide more content cached by the nearest edge devices 
called small base stations (SBS) over the D2D 
communication. Thus, the CPs and CRs strive to maximize 
their benefits and utilities, which needs a suitable incentive 
algorithm. The proposed incentive algorithm improves the 
transaction content cache hit ratio, the profit of CPs, and the 
utility of CRs of the BDCC system. It also reduces the 
latency and cache miss ratio of the BDCC system. 
Moreover, the paper uses a consortium blockchain to 
enhance the security and privacy of transactions in the D2D 
communications environment and handles content caching. 
The main contributions of this paper are summarized as 
follows: 
 We adopt a BDCC framework to enable D2D 
content caching, where multiple CRs request the 
cached content and multiple CPs provide the 
requested cache contents. 
 We design an optimal incentive scheme by 
adopting a two-stage multiple-leader-multiple-
follower (MLMF) Stackelberg game model to 
maximize and balance the profits and costs of CPs 
and CRs in the BDCC, considering their dynamic 
pricing and demand strategies, respectively. 
 We carry out extensive simulations to evaluate the 
effectiveness of our proposed incentive scheme. 
We also investigate the performance of our 
proposed incentive scheme in terms of profit of CP, 
cost of CR, and content cache hit and miss ratio of 
the BDCC system. 
II. SYSTEM MODEL 
In this section, we present the system architecture of 
content cache-enabled D2D communication shown in Fig.1. 
It consists of the MUEs, blockchain, base stations (BSs), 
mobile edge computing (MEC) servers, and trusted 
authority. 
A. Network Model 
We consider a BDCC architecture that consists of 
three small network cells (SNCs), one macro- BS (MBS), 
and three small BSs (SBS) connected to MBS. Each 
SNC contains various MUEs such as smartphones, 
tablets, and other Internet of Things (IoT) devices 
connected through D2D communication links. Let 
 and where P is the set 
of CPs, and R is the set of CR nodes, respectively. The 
MUEs are randomly distributed into the SNCs with local 
caching, storage, and computation capability in the BDCC 
system. Each node in the SNC shares the required 
contents from the other node via a D2D connection. The 
central MBS provides comprehensive connectivity to 
each SBSs with MBS-SBS links and its subscribing 
MUEs, which share the local cache content between 
other MUEs. The SBSs of each SNC offer a limited 
coverage range with relatively low computation and 
caching capacity. Nevertheless, each SBS provides 
connectivity to its local MUEs that establish a D2D 
communication and share the cached content between 
the MUEs. Since the MUEs involved in the BDCC 
environment have limited computing power, storage, and 
battery life, block validation during the content caching 
process with the existing local resources is challenging. 
Due to this, the MUEs transfer the transaction validation 
tasks to the nearby MEC servers, which execute the 
validation tasks by using a set of preselected and authorized 
nodes, as shown in Fig.1(b). 
Besides, the MEC server is also used to collect 
the real-time D2D content requests from CRs, the initial 
price announcements of content from CPs, and other 
transaction sharing details of the MUEs. The MEC brings 
the cached content and other services near an end-user 
to reduce the latency for most delay-sensitive applications 
and services with better bandwidth usage. Moreover, to 
make all the content sharing between mobile nodes secure 
and tamper-free, the consortium blockchain is used at each 
SNC and the whole BDCC system level to track the content 
transactions among the mobile nodes, where only 
preselected nodes participate in the consensus process. 
The MEC servers handle the transaction validation 
processes and store the validated transactions at the 
cache server of the BDCC system. They reach the 
consensus using Practical Byzantine Fault Tolerance 
(PBFT)-based Proof of Reputation (PoR) named as PBFT-
based PoR (PPoR) consensus scheme as in [8]. It also 
contains an accounting pool used to record the transaction 
and stores the content coin (Ccoin) in the wallets of both the 
CPs and CRs, while a memory pool stores all their 
transaction records. Hence, this helps the system reduce 
latency and bandwidth consumption by bringing the 
core computation capabilities of the network to the edge 
servers.  
To participate in the content sharing and block 
validation processes, the entities involved in the BDCC, 
such as the CPs, CRs, and MEC servers, must get certified 
for being registered into the system. The trusted authority 
is included in the system to initialize the security 
parameters for entity authorization and issuance of the 
certificate for each participant node in the BDCC system 
with Certj, Certi, and Certv, which denotes the 
certification of the CPs, CRs, and certificate of the 
selected validator nodes, respectively. Then, using the 
certificate, Certj, the CPs can participate in the BDCC 
system and obtain the cryptographic public-private key 
pair of (PKj, SKj), wallet address Addj, and balance Balj. 
In addition, the account of CPs contains the certificate of 
CPs (Certj) and its available wallet Ccoinj. Similarly, the 
transaction of CRs includes a public/private key pair 
of (PKi, SKi), wallet address Addi, and balance Bali. The 
CRs also have their balance account address (Ccoini) to 
purchase the required content. Therefore, the trusted 
authority (TA) performs identity authentication by 
generating public parameters, cryptographic keys, and the 
account details of validator nodes to identify the nodes by 
uniquely binding their registration account information. 
Besides, to enhance the security of the content cached and 
shared between CPs and CRs, asymmetric encryption is 
used [9], which is represented as follows.
238
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Figure 1.  System Architecture Content Caching in D2D Communication. 
                    (1) 
where, SigSKn is the digital signature of sender n with the 
private key SKn, DPKn is the decryption function used to 
decode the signed data of the sender n with the public 
key PKn, and H(C) is the hash digest of cache content C. 
B. Caching Model 
In our BDCC model, we use a consortium blockchain 
where secure content caching and sharing occurs between 
nodes of D2D communication, as shown in Fig. 1(b). 
Let denote the set of cached 
contents, and is a maximum threshold caching 
capacity of all the MUEs. It is assumed that each MUE caches 
content files of equal size and the probability of the content 
request following the same distribution. Each MUE continues to 
cache the content if the following condition is satisfied.  
 (2) 
where,  is the maximum content cache, S is the last 
index value of the content cached, is the total amount 
of the content cache x requested by MUE of the BDCC 
system. The content cache hit ratio indicates the probability 
that the required contents of subscribers are cached by their 
socially connected mobile terminals successfully [10]. 
Besides, the total content cache size,  can influence the 
cache hit ratio of the BDCC system, which is expressed as: 
     (3)
where, is the value of content cache hit ratio, Cx is 
the number of requests for content cache, which is 
successfully replied by the content cache provider node 
of the BDCC system. The cache hit ratio increases with an 
increase in the maximum threshold, of the content 
cached. Once the maximum required amount of content 
caching is done, none of the content can be cached by the 
network device, resulting in a low cache hit ratio. On the 
other hand, it increases the cache miss rate of the BDCC 
system. The cache miss ratio indicates the ratio of the total 
content cache requests which are not successfully replied 
by the caching node divided by the total number of cache 
content requests submitted at a given time interval. The 
content cache miss ratio of the BDCC system can be 
expressed as:  
 (4) 
where,  is the value of the content cache miss ratio, 
 is the number of content cache requests, which fail 
to be replied to by the content cache CP of the BDCC 
system, and is the total number of the content cache 
x requested by MUE of the BDCC system. Besides, the 
content requested by a node should also be less than the 
existing total amount of the content cache available at 
the CP. Hence, if the requested content is not cached 
appropriately and unreachable in the BDCC system, then 
the cache miss rate of the system will significantly rise. 
C. Utility Model 
This sub-section presents the utility functions of CPs 
and CRs based on their strategies to maximize their benefits 
from the content transaction processes within the BDCC 
system. In this scenario, CPs are MUEs with a surplus 
amount of content to provide and share with the CR nodes 
in the BDCC system. Let  is the unit price initiated by CPs 
for content demand  where 
and are the vectors of CP’s unit 
price and content demand of CRs, respectively, and ϵi is the 
overhead costs of the CP nodes. The utility of each CP is 
given as: 
        (5) 
where  and  refer to the revenue or 
gain of CPs obtained from the content sharing to CRs and 
the cost incurred by the CPs for resource consumption on 
239
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
the cache content sharing, respectively. We can further 
express the utility of CPs as follows: 
                    (6) 
where is the positive coefficient used to convert the 
obtainment earnings of the content provisions into 
monetary value, and the log function is used to model the 
obtainment gain of content sharing. Besides, the CR 
nodes also wish to maximize their benefits by 
requesting more contents transactions. Hence, the utility 
of the CR nodes is given as: 
                     (7) 
where  is the cost incurred by CR node i for elec- 
tricity, maintenance, hardware loss, and other system 
operations [11]. 
III. THE PROPOSED SCHEME 
In this section, we present our proposed incentive 
scheme that is based on a Stackelberg game model used to 
motivate CPs and CRs to participate in BDCC. In D2D 
communication, the selfish nature of mobile users is 
prompted while they are trying to maximize their utility, 
and unfair reward distributions among them require 
significant attention. The content owners try to increase 
their profit by reducing the transaction validation and other 
overhead costs, while the CRs want to improve their profit 
in terms of rewards. Thus, an effective incentive mechanism 
is required to motivate CPs and CRs to participate in the 
content sharing. 
A. Stackelberg Game Formulation 
In this incentive game model, the CPs and CRs 
continuously adjust their prices until they reach their 
optimal utility cost [12]. The CPs act as the leaders who 
wish to gain sufficient profit from sharing the content with 
the requesting nodes, and the CRs node act as followers of 
the game that designs appropriate strategies to maximize 
their profit from requesting more cached content that CPs 
will provide. The CPs are the first to announce the price of 
the content to be shared with the CR nodes. Conversely, the 
CR nodes determine their strategies based on the prices 
offered by the CPs to maximize their profit. Finally, the CR 
nodes receive the requested content from the CPs, while the 
CRs transfer the content coins to the CP nodes, as shown in 
Algorithm 1. The optimization problems are formulated as 
an MLMF Stackelberg game as follows: 
Stage 1: Leader’s pricing 
  (8) 
        
where  denotes the total content that t h e  CPs 
possess, and the number of contents requested should not 
exceed .  
Stage 2: Followers’ content request strategy 
 (9) 
The goal of the MLMF Stackelberg game formulation is 
searching for the Nash equilibrium (NE) point at which both 
the leader(s) and the follower(s) achieve their highest 
benefit. We use the second-order derivatives of the CP and 
CR utility functions to indicate the existence and uniqueness 
of NE in our Stackelberg game, shown in Equations (6) and 
(7), respectively. It can be further expressed as: 
                                             (10) 
                                             (11) 
Definition 1: Let and are the optimal price of 
CP and content demand of CR, respectively, and the point 
 is the NE if it satisfies the following conditions: 
                                       (12) 
                                              (13) 
Thus, equations (6) and (7) show that the utility 
functions Uj and Ui are strictly concave and indicate the 
existence of NE for our Stackelberg game. 
 
Algorithm 1 Incentive mechanism using Stackelberg 
         game 
1: The CP sets the initial price of content demand  
  
2: Each CR notifies its plan of optimal content 
     demands; 
3: The CP determines the total number of CR nodes 
     with a plan to request content demand  
Suppose  is the least positive value,  is the  
maximum threshold value and  is the content’s 
price step size. 
4: if  then 
5:  The CP increases the price by  and  
        submits a new price; 
6: else if  then 
7: The CP decreases the price by  and  
             submits a new price; 
8: else 
9: The CP provides the content to the CRs;  
10: end if 
11: Repeat the lines 2 and 3 until  
12: The CPs provide the content requested, while the  
      CRs transfer the coins to CP; 
 
240
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IV. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
This section describes the performance evaluation of our 
proposed MLMF Stackelberg game-based incentive 
mechanism using performance metrics such as the profit of 
CPs and CRs, utility of CRs, cache hit ratio, and cache miss 
ratio. The greedy and single-leader-multiple follower 
(SLMF) pricing schemes are used as the benchmark to 
compare the performance of the proposed Stackelberg 
pricing scheme, MLMF, in terms of average profits of CPs 
and CRs, and the utility of CRs considering the number of 
CRs and CPs. We present the simulation setups and 
simulation results. Finally, the simulation results are 
analyzed and discussed. 
A. Simulation setup 
We conduct our simulations using the Python 3.6 
environment on a computer with a Core i7 CPU 
running at a processor speed of 2.4 GHz, 1 TB internal 
hard disk drive, and 8GB of RAM. We consider a 500m 
× 500m coverage area with 1 MBS that connects the three 
SNCs, which are 50m far apart. Each cell consists of 1 SBS, 
a local server with content and blockchain, and 20-25 
MUEs per SNC. We use 300 content transactions during 
the validation processes. The bandwidth of the BDCC 
system is set to 20MHZ and the block size, propagation 
delay, and interval are set as 0.05 
seconds, and , respectively. 
B. Simulation results and analysis 
In this paper, we select the benchmark pricing schemes 
because they are easy to implement and have lower time 
complexities. Besides, these schemes are also used to opti- 
mize the incentives of the participating nodes and evaluate 
how well the proposed pricing scheme is optimal and 
feasible. Moreover, comparing the benchmark schemes 
with our proposed scheme provides an opportunity to 
determine the incentive mechanisms that can enhance the 
system efficiency by motivating the participating nodes. We 
present the simulation results of each performance metric as 
follows. 
1) Profit of CPs: In the profit analysis of the CPs shown 
in Fig. 2(a), we can see that the average profit of CPs 
increases as more contents are provided by CPs for the 
caching purpose. The proposed pricing scheme increases 
the profit of CPs by 3.24 % and 1.68 % compared with 
greedy and SLMF schemes, respectively. Therefore, our 
proposed scheme out- performs the benchmark pricing 
schemes in optimizing the profit of the CPs. 
2) Utility of CRs: The simulation results in Fig. 2(b) 
show a continual decrease in the average utility of CRs in 
all the schemes used as more CRs participate in the content 
requesting process of the BDCC system. However, our 
proposed incentive scheme shows a slight decline in the 
utility of CRs compared with the greedy and SLMF 
schemes, indicating a decrease of 9.3% and 4.92%, 
respectively. 
3) Utility of CRs Vs number of CPs: In Fig. 2(c), the 
simulation results show that the utility of CRs increases as 
the number of CPs involved in the BDCC system increases. 
Our proposed MLMF scheme provides sufficient 
incentivizing opportunities to CRs in high motivation and 
better utility price for CRs than greedy and SLMF schemes. 
Thus, the average utility of CRs using our proposed 
incentive scheme, MLMF, is 36.26% compared with 33.43% 
and 30.31% of the average utility of CRs of the SLMF, and 
greedy schemes, respectively. 
4) Average profit of CRs: From Fig. 2(d), we can see 
that CRs obtain more average profits by requesting more 
content from CPs. However, the average profits of CRs 
vary based on the incentive scheme employed in the 
consensus mechanism. The results indicate that the average 
profits of CRs in our proposed scheme exceed that of 
greedy and SLMF schemes by 1.05 % and 0.52 %, 
respectively. Hence, our proposed scheme provides a better 
average profit than the benchmarks used because its 
incentives motivate the honest CRs at every content 
requested. 
5) Content cache hit ratio: From Fig. 3(a), the MLMF 
incentive scheme indicates a better cache hit rate than the 
SLMF and greedy schemes. The proposed MLMF scheme 
provides a competitive opportunity for all honest CR nodes 
with an efficient incentive to motivate them to request more 
content. Thus, our proposed MLMF incentive scheme has 
a content cache hit ratio of 29.19 %, which exceeds the 
SLMF and greedy pricing schemes by 6.06% and 9.33%, 
respectively. 
6) Content cache miss ratio: The simulation results in 
Fig. 3(b) show the highest cache miss rate in the greedy 
pricing scheme, while less cache miss rate is indicated 
when the SLMF scheme is used. However, the least cache 
miss rate is shown in the MLMF incentive mechanism, 
which indicates a decrease in the cache miss ratio by 20.24% 
and 9.76% from greedy and SLMF pricing incentive 
schemes, respectively. 
  
(a) Profit of CPs. (b) Utility of CRs. 
  
(c) Utility of CRs Vs number of 
CPs 
(d) Average profits of CRs 
Figure 2.   Utility analysis. 
241
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
  
(a) Content cache hit ratio. (b) Content cache miss ratio. 
Figure 3.  Caching performance analysis. 
V. CONCLUSION 
This paper proposes a Stackelberg game-based incentive 
mechanism that meets the diverse requirements of the CPs 
and CR nodes in cache-enabled D2D communications. 
First, we adopt a consortium BDCC framework to enable 
secure and transparent D2D content sharing. Then, we 
formulate the two-stage pricing-based optimal incentive 
mechanism using the MLMF Stackelberg game model to 
maximize and balance the profits and costs of CPs and CR 
nodes, respectively. Simulation results show that the 
proposed incentive scheme outperforms the benchmark 
schemes. Our future work will introduce machine learning 
and other improved approaches that optimize the 
performance of the incentive mechanism. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work is supported in part by the Natural Science 
Foundation of China under Grant No.61806040 and Grant 
No. 61771098; in part by the fund from the Department of 
Science and Technology of Sichuan Province under Grant 
No. 2020YFQ0025, and in part by the fund from Intelligent 
Terminal Key Laboratory of Sichuan Province under Grant 
No. SCITLAB-1018. 
REFERENCES 
[1] M. K. Kiskani and H. R. Sadjadpour, “Throughput analysis of 
decentralized coded content caching in cellular networks,” IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 663–
672, 2016. 
[2] M.-C. Lee and A. F. Molisch, “Individual preference aware caching 
policy design in wireless d2d networks,” IEEE transactions on 
wireless communications, vol. 19, no. 8, pp. 5589– 5604, 2020. 
[3] Z. Chen, N. Pappas, and M. Kountouris, “Probabilistic caching in 
wireless d2d networks: Cache hit optimal versus throughput 
optimal,” IEEE Communications Letters, vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 584–
587, 2017.     
[4] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. 
online,” Available in https://bitcoin. org/bitcoin. pdf, 2008. 
[5] Y. Li and Z. Wan, “Blockchain-enabled intelligent video caching 
and transcoding in clustered mec networks,” Security and 
Communication Networks, vol. 2021, 2021. 
[6] R. Cheng, Y. Sun, Y. Liu, L. Xia, D. Feng, and M. Imran, 
“Blockchain-empowered federated learning approach for an 
intelligent and reliable d2d caching scheme,” IEEE Internet of 
Things Journal, 2021. 
[7] Y. Qiao, Y. Li, and J. Li, “An economic incentive for d2d assisted 
offloading using stackelberg game,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 136 
684–136 696, 2020. 
[8] H. N. Abishu, A. M. Seid, Y. H. Yacob, T. Ayall, G. Sun, and G. 
Liu, “Consensus mechanism for blockchain-enabled vehicle-to-
vehicle energy trading in the internet of electric vehicles,” IEEE 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 71, no. 1, pp. 946–960, 
2022. 
[9] Z. Su, Y. Wang, Q. Xu, M. Fei, Y.-C. Tian, and N. Zhang, “A secure 
charging scheme for electric vehicles with smart communities in 
energy blockchain,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 3, 
pp. 4601–4613, 2018. 
[10] Y. Fu, L. Salau¨n, X. Yang, W. Wen, and T. Q. Quek, “Caching 
efficiency maximization for device-to-device communication 
networks: A recommend to cache approach,” IEEE Transac- tions 
on Wireless Communications, 2021. 
[11] H. Yao, T. Mai, J. Wang, Z. Ji, C. Jiang, and Y. Qian, “Resource 
trading in blockchain-based industrial internet of things,” IEEE 
Transactions on Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3602–
3609, 2019. 
[12] L. Shi, L. Zhao, G. Zheng, Z. Han, and Y. Ye, “Incentive design for 
cache-enabled d2d underlaid cellular networks using stackelberg 
game,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 68, no. 1, 
pp. 765–779, 2018. 
[13] Z. Chen, Y. Liu, B. Zhou, and M. Tao, “Caching incentive design in 
wireless d2d networks: A stackelberg game approach,” in 2016 
IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC), 2016, 
pp. 1–6. 
 
 
 
 
242
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.