Powering Financial Literacy Through Blockchain and Gamification: How Digital Transformation Impacts Fintech Education
Powering Financial Literacy Through
Blockchain and Gamification: How Digital
Transformation Impacts Fintech Education
Peter ChunYu Yau1(B) and Dennis Wong2
1 School of Continuing and Professional Education, City University of Hong Kong,
Kowloon Tong, Hong Kong
peter.yau@cityu.edu.hk
2 Department of Computer Science, State University of New York, Incheon, Korea
cwong@uoguelph.ca
Abstract. In this paper, we discuss how to empower financial literacy education
through gamification and also blockchain technology. The paper describes the use
of various technologies to the general public on financial literacy. This research is
based on a three-year cross-discipline project that aims to raise financial literacy
around the world, especially the developing countries. This paper serves as an
interim review for the project “Gamified Fintech Project for Education”.
Keywords: Gamification · Financial literacy · Cloud technology ·Machine
learning · Blockchain
1 Introduction
1.1 Why Financial Literacy Matters?
According to a survey conducted by Standard and Poor’s Rating Services, there are lots
of rooms for improvement on the financial understanding to the general public around
the world [1]: only 33% of the adults are considered financially literate. A person is
considered to be financially literate if he can answer at least three out of the four basic
financial concepts correctly; these basic kinds of financial questions are, e.g., the concept
of risk diversification, inflation, interest (rate), and compound interest.
As shown in Fig. 1, low financial literacy rates are appearing in developing countries.
One of the impacts of a low financial literacy rate is the increased difficulty of the people
to have their wealth accumulation. For example, take the usage of compound interest as
a financial introductory education: by investing the same amount of $1,000 at the age of
twenty-five (25), thirty-five (35), and forty-five (45) respectively, will yield to a close to
triple return difference [2]. Of course, there are lots of variables in the example above.
It is, however, no doubt that better financial education is a good starting point towards a
better living.
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
K. Arai (Ed.): FTC 2021, LNNS 358, pp. 986–993, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89906-6_63
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-89906-6_63&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-89906-6_63
Powering Financial Literacy Through Blockchain and Gamification 987
Fig. 1. Global variations in financial literacy (Percentage of adults who are financially literate)
Source: S&P Global FinLit Survey.
1.2 Digital Transformation in Fintech Education
Monopoly board games, a classic fast-dealing property trading game by Hasbro [3], is
one of the most popular games that relate financial concepts to entertainment. Although
this game cannot strictly be considered as an educational financial and investment game,
it does involve valuable messages to be conveyed to the players such as maintaining
enough cash flow, balancing the asset holding, and being price focus on each turn, etc.
[4] All these significant factors makeMonopoly a successful game, inspiring many other
similar kinds of products such as The Game of Life, Hotels (Hotel Tycoon), Pay Day,
etc. [5].
The traditional board game, for example in Fig. 2 (left), is a game that built on
top of the cardboard [6], included the use of metal or plastic characters such as chits,
tiles, counters, chips, dice, cards [7], etc. After the rise of the multimedia era around
1990 [8] facilitated by the introduction of optical devices (e.g., CD-ROM) [9], it is
typical to found that new elements such as audio, image and videos are being used in
the multimedia game production to enhance the user experience. One of the common
examples is to transform the traditional board game into a digital interactive game to be
played on a computer: by programming the game logic andmaking the static images into
an animation. In recent years, multimedia techniques transform board games from two-
dimensional (2D) to three-dimensional (3D) digital games, for example in Fig. 2 (right).
Various kind of reality technologies are also adopted and getting popular: Augmented
Reality (AR), Virtual Reality (VR) and Mixed Reality (MR).
Digital Transformation (DT or DX) [10] is not simply replacing old technologies
with new technologies: digital transformation involves the concept of (a) replacing non-
digital manual process into a digital process, (b) innovative deployment rather than (just)
supporting the traditional method, and (c) enhance efficiency by the use of automation
[11].
988 P. C. Yau and D. Wong
Fig. 2. Images showing a transforming of a traditional board game (Right) into an interactive
digital game (Left). Source: Hasbro (Monopoly Official Website).
It is a fact that terminology like Blockchain, Cryptocurrency, Mobile payment and
Mobile banking are some trendy keywords which, easily made people believed invest-
ment and wealth planning can be hassle-free; technology can help to facilitate but invest-
ment strategy is indeed still depending on the investor’s personal judgement and knowl-
edge [12]. According to the pilot study about the user experience, and the existing
empirical literatures, we will explore how financial education can be digital transformed
by using fintech and various new technologies.
1.3 Aim and Scope
In this project, we aim to build a financial education platform in both web and mobile
format. By the use of gamification and embrace the scope of various new technology
such as those mentioned above, to arise public awareness or network and technology
can help in financial planning.
2 Methodology and Design Concept
In this section, we will talk about the development methodology, and how we conducted
the pilot user experience study which eventually led to the design concept.
2.1 Methodology
Survey. In 2019 quarter two, we conducted a self-administrative online survey to the
students in Hong Kong. The survey was designed in a 5-point Likert scale where 1-
point refer to strongly disagree and 5-point refer to strongly agree. The survey was
conducted anonymously and designed to be completed in one to two minutes time. Our
interview target is young people aged between 16–26whichmatches our project aims and
scope. Survey data was stored in a cloud storage with HTTPS encrypted communication
channelwith two-factor authentication (2FA) enabled.Neither personal data nor personal
identifiable data were acquired during the process.
Four (4) questions were asked in the survey: how likely do you agree that:
a) Can financial education result in better wealth management?
Powering Financial Literacy Through Blockchain and Gamification 989
b) Is the continuous financial practice a key to personal wealth success?
c) Can cutting-edge technologies enhance investment return? And
d) Can gamification arise my interest in financial learning tools?
Results. According to the results (as shown in Fig. 3), a total of 146 participants joined
the pilot survey. 69%of the participants agreed or strongly agreed that financial education
can result in better wealth management (question (a)); 61% agreed or strongly agreed
that cutting-edge technology can help investment return (question (b)), and 73% agreed
or strongly agreed that gamification can arise their interest to the financial learning tools
(question (d)). The results reflected the viewpoint of the youth today: a better education
level makes the new generation agree that education can make a change to their life, and
they believe technology can help their financial planning because they are born in the
digital era. The popularity of mobile devices makes mobile gaming common and easy
to get in touch with, and gamification allows the new generation easier get entry to a
new professional topic such as economic and financial study.
It is indeed interesting to overserve the results in question (b): how likely do you
agree that continuous financial practice is a key to personal wealth success? 47% of the
participants agree or strongly agree with this statement. Although it is not a relatively
Fig. 3. Results to the pilot user experience study. Source: Conducted by the Researchers
990 P. C. Yau and D. Wong
low number compared to 31% go for neutral. There is room to reflect how the tools to
be designed for long term engagement purpose and the positioning of the tools in the
short to medium term. We will explain in more details in later sections.
2.2 Gamification
Gamification plays an important role in the project: as the survey result showed that it is
one of the most successful elements to gain attention to the potential player. Our project
is powered by the OpenGameArt.org; and the development team mainly sourced the
needed clipart and art resources on this website.
The financial literacy project packaged the game into a simulation game, simulating
how you behave in the real world and allows behavior experiment on your certain kind of
action, for example: what are the possible results if you placed all your saving to purchase
Bitcoin, or what happen if you never do saving and what is the projected retirement life.
The game extracted close to real-time data, which has a 24–72 h delay compare to
the market data; the monthly and quarterly financial report, to do the projection. The
data we obtain includes economic data such as Consumer Price Index (CPI), regional
employment rate. Our goal is to give a real-life gamification experience to the players.
3 Technology and Infrastructure
In this section, we will talk about how various kind of technology the Amazon Web
Services (AWS) powered the needed technology which is used in the project.
3.1 AWS Technology
AmazonWeb Services (AWS) is one of theworld’smost comprehensive andwidely used
cloud technologyproviders [12]. It offersmore than twohundred (200) all-roundbusiness
and technological services from their global infrastructure: 245 Countries and Territories
Served, 108 Direct Connect Locations, 80 Availability Zones and 25 Launched Regions
[13]. Apart from their well-known service such as Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
(Amazon EC2), AWS also provide cutting edge artificial intelligence out-of-the-box
services such as amazon comprehend, amazon forecast, amazon fraud detector [14],
amazon segamaker, etc. [15].
Machine Learning. Weused theAWSpoweredMachineLearning (ML) tools, to detect
player behavior, such as keep buying certain kind of stock, repeating certain kind of
investment simulation action. By using the machine learning technique, our algorithm
can advise the player related kind of investment knowledge, e.g. diverse investment
techniques.
Amazon Polly. In order to make the game more life and real, we used Amazon Polly, a
technique that uses deep learning technology, to provide Text-to-Speech (TTS) service.
Amazon Polly provides a human-like vocal sound we used to explain financial concepts
in a more interactive way. Apart from the educational purpose, the vocal sound interface
enabled an accessibility mobile environment in the user experience concern.
Powering Financial Literacy Through Blockchain and Gamification 991
3.2 Docker and Blockchain
Docker. Docker is an open-source containerized platform solution, allowing multi-
platform technology to run on the same machine (or across different node/computers).
The concept is similar to using a virtual machine but using far fewer resources. As porta-
bility is one of the biggest advantages brings by Docker technology, we pick it as one of
the important criteria when designing the system; allowing deployment parties to easily
create their own infrastructure in their on-perms resources.
Blockchain. In the previous project, we usedMultichain as our open-source blockchain
solution, in an unmanned smart shop development project [16]. We tried something
new this time: Corda. Corda is another open-source solution for private-use blockchain
building under the Apache 2.0 license. By using Corda, the player rewards and game
data can be recorded into this decentralized platform.
3.3 Internet-of-Things (IoT)
Raspberry Pi and Arduino is a helpful tool to kick start with Internet-of-Things (IoT)
projects. Similar to the goal of this financial education project, the idea of IoT helps
to make the project more fun: participant schools made a DIY vending machine by
using an embedded system powered by Raspberry Pi and Arduino board. The virtual
rewards gainedby their proper investment decision allowing them to convert into physical
rewards, maybe a can of soft drink. Some of the schools use the same approach but in
a non-physical reward such as an additional two (2) marks given in their course mark.
We agreed this is something we can make gamification even applicable in the real world
with creative ideas.
3.4 OpenAPI
The OpenAPI Initiative (OAI) was created with the aim of standardizing the API used
around the world, for the mutual benefit across various kind of technology products and
services built and deploy [17]. In this project, we used the OpenAPI standard to design
theAPI, accepting external requests fromour invited parties such as programming teams,
financial sponsors, hackathon participants, etc. The API calls allow different parties to
extract interesting information such as player ranking, popular gamified products and
services. Non-identifiable information can be included investment behavior, common
decision made, etc.
4 Production and Limitation
Due to the COVID-19 situation, the project is behind schedule. Although some of the
experimental development still under process, we achieved an overall completion rate
of 70% so far (Fig. 4). We would like to share some of the findings and highlight part of
the significance.
992 P. C. Yau and D. Wong
Major technologies adopted in this project are free and open-source; we received
generous support to the education sector by using a number of powerful computational
resources such as AWSEducate Cloud, this made our development as smooth as possible
under the Work-From-Home (WFH) period. The development team comprises students
from higher diploma level to the postgraduate level. We are expecting a complete launch
of the portal by mid-2020.
Fig. 4. Mockup design for the “powering financial literacy” educational portal. Source: Con-
structed by the Researchers (Free Images Powered by Pexels)
5 Conclusion
In conclusion, this project aimed to promote financial literacy, by taking advantage to
the use of the latest technologies; and to achieve a low-cost and effective educational
product.We hope that by addressing the importance of financial management knowledge
and skills, the latest technologies can be properly used for the benefit of the general
public in terms of financial education [18, 19]. This project has also incorporated the
open-source concept and used the MIT licenses as part of the production. We take this
opportunity to welcome various kind of co-operation and partnership with us on this
project.
Acknowledgement. The research of Dennis Wong is supported by the MSIT (Ministry of Sci-
ence and ICT), Korea, under the ICT Consilience Creative Program (IITP-2019-H8601-15-1011)
supervised by the IITP (Institute for Information & communications Technology Planning &
Evaluation).
Powering Financial Literacy Through Blockchain and Gamification 993
References
1. World Bank Development Research Group, The George Washington University School of
Business, McGraw Hill Financial Inc, & Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services: Financial
Literacy Around the World: Insights from the Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services Global
Financial Literacy Survey. The Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services Global Financial Literacy
Survey. https://gflec.org/initiatives/sp-global-finlit-survey/ (2015)
2. Believe In The Power Of Compound Interest. BELIEVE! (2021), from https://www.moneyu
nder30.com/power-of-compound-interest. Accessed 15 May 2021
3. Hasbro: Monopoly Board Games, Card & Online Games - Hasbro. Monopoly. https://mon
opoly.hasbro.com/en-us (n.d.). Accessed May 15 2021
4. Lessons in Finance and Investing From Monopoly. https://www.investopedia.com/articles/
basics/12/lessons-monopoly-teaches.asp (2021). Accessed 16 May 2021
5. Faber, T.: Why do games bring out the urge to collect? Financial Times. https://www.ft.com/
content/64b5e2a0-66f3-43e3-9457-432e332d7dcd (2021)
6. Hinebaugh, J.P.: A Board Game Education. R&L Education (2009)
7. https://mykindofmeeple.com/board-game-pieces-names-examples-uses/
8. Nakatsu, R.: Toward the creation of a new medium for the multimedia era. Proc. IEEE 86(5),
825–836 (1998)
9. Rosenzweig, R.: So, what’s next for clio? CD-ROM and historians. J. Am. Hist. 81(4), 1621–
1640 (1995)
10. O’Donnell, J.: IDC Says Get on Board with the DX Economy or be Left Behind.
techtarget.com (2017)
11. Lankshear,C.,Knobel,M.:Digital Literacies:Concepts, Policies andPractices. p. 173. (2008).
978-1433101694–viaGoogleBooks.Theultimate stage is that of digital transformation and is
achieved when the digital usages which have been developed enable innovation and creativity
and stimulate significant change within the professional or knowledge domain
12. Almquist, E., Bovet, D., Heaton, C.J.: What have we learned so far? making CRM make
money — technology alone won’t create value. In: Kracklauer, A.H., Quinn Mills, D.,
Seifert, D. (eds.) Collaborative Customer Relationship Management, pp. 7–22. Springer
Berlin Heidelberg, Berlin, Heidelberg (2004). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24710-4_2
13. What is AWS (2021). https://aws.amazon.com/what-is-aws/. Accessed 15 May 2021
14. Global Infrastructure (2021). https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/.
Accessed 16 May 2021
15. Artificial Intelligence Services (2021). https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/ai-ser
vices/. Accessed 15 May 2021
16. Amazon SageMaker: Machine learning – amazon web services (2021). https://aws.amazon.
com/sagemaker/. Accessed 15 May 2021
17. Yau, P.C., Luen, W.H., Wong, D., Kan, J.W.K.: Unmanned shop laboratory: an extensible
and scalable research, teaching and learning smart space system: project S-SHOP@ TMIT in
response to emerging challenges for Hong Kong smart city development. In: 2020 IEEE 3rd
International Conference on Electronics Technology (ICET), pp. 819–822. IEEE (2020)
18. About - OpenAPI Initiative (2021). https://www.openapis.org/about. Accessed 15 May 2021
19. Yau, P.: An Empirical Study of the Drivers and Impediments in the Adoption of Financial
Technology in the China’s Greater Bay area.
https://gflec.org/initiatives/sp-global-finlit-survey/
https://www.moneyunder30.com/power-of-compound-interest
https://monopoly.hasbro.com/en-us
https://www.investopedia.com/articles/basics/12/lessons-monopoly-teaches.asp
https://www.ft.com/content/64b5e2a0-66f3-43e3-9457-432e332d7dcd
https://mykindofmeeple.com/board-game-pieces-names-examples-uses/
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-540-24710-4_2
https://aws.amazon.com/what-is-aws/
https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/global-infrastructure/.
https://aws.amazon.com/machine-learning/ai-services/
https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/
https://www.openapis.org/about
	Powering Financial Literacy Through Blockchain and Gamification: How Digital Transformation Impacts Fintech Education
	1 Introduction
	1.1 Why Financial Literacy Matters?
	1.2 Digital Transformation in Fintech Education
	1.3 Aim and Scope
	2 Methodology and Design Concept
	2.1 Methodology
	2.2 Gamification
	3 Technology and Infrastructure
	3.1 AWS Technology
	3.2 Docker and Blockchain
	3.3 Internet-of-Things (IoT)
	3.4 OpenAPI
	4 Production and Limitation
	5 Conclusion
	References