A Recommendation Scheme with Reputation-Based Incentive Mechanism on Consortium Blockchain
A Recommendation Scheme with Reputation-Based
Incentive Mechanism on Consortium Blockchain
Qingyi Ye∗, Tingting Zhao∗, Guo Sun∗, Xia Feng†
∗School of Computer Science and Communication Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, China
†School of Automotive and Traffic Engineering, Jiangsu University, Zhenjiang, China
Email: yqy city@163.com, ztt17851001021@qq.com, guosun@163.com, xiazio@ujs.edu.cn
Abstract—Aiming at the problem of privacy leakage and
lack of trust in centralized recommendation system architecture,
we propose a recommendation scheme with reputation-based
incentive mechanism on consortium blockchain, which uses the
auditable and transparent feature of consortium blockchain to
enhance the credibility of the recommendation system. Multiple
users are allowed to participate in the recommendation process
fairly through the certification before joining the blockchain net-
work. Besides, the scheme introduces a reputation-based incentive
mechanism, which can curb users’ malicious behaviors and
attract more users to participate in the recommendation process,
thus optimizing the recommendation results. Then, we design and
implement an education resources recommendation system based
on the proposed scheme, which provides a new solution idea for
the design of highly credible recommendation systems. Finally,
the experimental analysis of the proposed scheme shows that it
can achieve fair and credible recommendations and significantly
improve the accuracy of the recommendation results.
Index Terms—consortium blockchain; reputation incentive;
recommendation system; game theory
I. INTRODUCTION
Nowadays, recommendation systems are widely applied in
various areas of life, such as Amazon, eBay, and Netflix.
They all use recommendation technology in their systems to
estimate potential customer preferences and recommend rele-
vant products to users. The effectiveness of recommendation
systems depends heavily on the ability to extract historical
data information precisely from users at a large scale, but
recommendation engines are generally architected on central-
ized servers. Such architecture is vulnerable to attack and
exposure privacy. Therefore, a new decentralized architectural
model is needed to solve the privacy protection problem of
recommendation systems.
Due to its salient features, such as decentralization and
immutability, blockchain has established a new credible model
for global interconnection [1].Blockchain technology is a
comprehensive application of decentralized data storage, peer-
to-peer transmission, consensus mechanisms and encryption
algorithms.In recent years, it has attracted much attention from
academia and industry [2], [3]. The work of [4] proposes
some of the current blockchain applications for education and
discusses its benefits and challenges. Although blockchain has
brought many innovations to the education industry, there are
still some potential drawbacks that have not been solved.
The work of [5] proposes an education resources-oriented
recommendation system based on blockchain to achieve fair
and credible recommendation results. However, the decen-
tralized recommendation system faces several problems such
as non-active participation and nodes’ malicious behaviors.
These problems greatly affect the accuracy of recommendation
results and the effectiveness of the recommendation system.
Therefore, how to design an incentive mechanism to ensure the
participants’ credible recommendation and active participation
is an important issue of this paper.
In this paper,we combine current popular incentive mech-
anisms with blockchain-based incentive schemes and propose
a recommendation scheme with reputation-based incentive
mechanism on consortium blockchain.Use blockchain tech-
nology to ensure the fairness and credibility of the recom-
mendation scheme.Meanwhile,we design a reputation-based
incentive mechanism to solve the problems of non-active
participation and malicious behavior of nodes. The main
contributions of our work are listed as follows:
• We propose a recommendation scheme based on consor-
tium blockchain to achieve fair and credible recommen-
dation results.
• We introduce a reputation-based incentive mechanism in
the scheme to curb users’ malicious behaviors and moti-
vate them to participate in the recommendation process.
• We use the Stackelberg game in the scheme to guarantee
the number of participants, and use game theory to prove
that the recommendation results are superior.
• The experimental analysis results show that the incentive
mechanism can effectively motivate users to participate
in recommendations credibly and significantly improve
the accuracy of recommendation results.
II. RELATED WORK
A. Incentive mechanism
Incentive mechanism is an crucial issue in the study of
crowdsensing applications. Its need for a large number of
nodes to participate is very similar to the fair recommendation
scenario in this paper. Next, we will analyze the existing in-
centive mechanisms applied to the crowdsensing applications.
In TrueBit [6], users upload the tasks they want to perform,
and participants can perform them to earn rewards, while
others verify the correctness of the results.Hoh [7], [8] de-
signed the Reverse Auction based Dynamic Pricing with Vir-
tual Participation Credit (RADP-VPC) incentive mechanism,
313
2021 International Conference on Networking and Network Applications (NaNA)
978-1-6654-4158-2/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/NaNA53684.2021.00061
20
21
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 N
et
w
or
ki
ng
 a
nd
 N
et
w
or
k 
A
pp
lic
at
io
ns
 (N
aN
A
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
41
58
-2
/2
1/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
N
aN
A
53
68
4.
20
21
.0
00
61
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:00:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
which aims to minimize and stabilize the platform cost on the
premise of maintaining participation. He Y et al. [9] proposed
a blockchain-based truthful incentive mechanism, which uses
cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin to motivate users to coop-
erate. First, the mechanism introduces a secure verification
method to keep the content to be verified confidential to the
miners in the blockchain system. Then, a pricing strategy
is proposed to prevent selfish users and to defend against
the resulting collusive attacks. Finally, applying game theory
analysis and simulation studies to demonstrate the security and
efficiency of the incentive mechanism.
Among existing incentives, reputation incentives can pre-
vent participants’ malicious behavior to a certain extent [10],
[11]. Zhao et al. [12] proposed a new blockchain-based fair
payment to research Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS). The pay-
ment applies a reputation mechanism to allow subscribers to
evaluate posted events and tag publishers based on reputation.
Sharples and Domingue [13] proposed a permanent distributed
record of intellectual effort based on the blockchain, which
instantiates and democratizes educational reputation beyond
the academic community.
B. Stackelberg game
The Stackelberg game [14] is a master-slave game, which
mainly describes the game between the leader and the fol-
lower.Some studies have used the Stackelberg game in in-
centive mechanisms to achieve better results.Yang et al. [15]
proposed two types of incentive mechanisms from the per-
spective of agent platforms and mobile users. The platform-
centered mechanism based on the Stackelberg game assumes
that the platform has absolute control over the total amount
of payments made by users and that users can only increase
their revenue by adjusting their strategies to participate in the
system. The user-centered incentive mechanism is based on
an auction scheme, which can maximize the effectiveness of
the participants. Kroll et al. [16] performed a game-theoretic
analysis of Bitcoin and concluded that credibility strategies
constitute a Nash Equilibrium (NE). In a sense, if all parties
act in accordance with their incentives, the system will operate
stably. Duan et al. [17]designed a threshold revenue model for
service providers using the Stackelberg game.
Our recommendation model is similar to the Stackelberg
game model but consists of a leader and multiple followers.In
the recommendation scheme,the system is the leader and can
formulate the strategy. The participants are the followers and
can send a recommendation request as a user or choose to
make a recommendation as a recommender according to the
leader’s strategy.
Although the above research work has made some progress,
there are still some limitations. Therefore, we design a
reputation-based incentive mechanism in this paper by con-
sidering the advantages of these incentive mechanisms
above.Firstly,the application of crowdsensing and game theory
can motivate the participation of users. Secondly,incentive
mechanism based on reputation can prevent malicious behav-
iors. Finally, considering the salient advantage of blockchain
in incentive mechanism, we design a recommendation scheme
with reputation-based incentive mechanism on consortium
blockchain.
III. SYSTEM FRAMEWORK DESIGN
In this paper, we design a recommendation scheme with
reputation-based incentive mechanism to motivate partici-
pants to participate in the recommendation system credi-
bly.Participants can receive different monetary rewards accord-
ing to the recommendation results. In this process, each time a
participant executes a recommendation smart contract to make
a recommendation and receive a reward from the system can
be regarded as a transaction. The transaction can be verified
by miners and then record on the blockchain. The system
framework is shown in Fig.1.
Fig. 1: Recommendation framework with reputation-based
incentive mechanism on consortium blockchain
Multiple organizations can join together to build a
blockchain network.After certification and authorization of the
consortium blockchain,participants in an organization can join
the blockchain network as nodes to perform recommendation
transactions. Then,the system platform publishes the tasks
submitted by users to the blockchain network, and adopts the
reputation incentive mechanism to attract more nodes to partic-
ipate in the recommendation.When the number of participating
nodes exceeds the minimum number specified by the system,
the system performs the recommendation.Finally,the system
returns the recommendation results to the users and distributes
rewards to participating nodes.Principles of reputation incen-
tive mechanism design are as follows.
• To enable better recommendation results,it is critical to
ensure the number of participants. Therefore, participants
should be adequately rewarded for their participation, at
least not below their required cost price.
• The incentive mechanism should be able to prevent
user attrition and promote long-term user participation.
Therefore, we should ensure that these credible partici-
314
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:00:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
pants involved can receive higher rewards, and malicious
participants will be penalized.
• To ensure fairness, the incentive mechanism should be
designed to effectively curb malicious nodes and focus
on the fair distribution of incentives.
IV. REPUTATION INCENTIVE MECHANISM
A. Incentive model
In the recommendation scheme,we design a reputation in-
centive mechanism based on the Stackelberg game to ensure
high participation in recommendations and accuracy of results.
Assuming that there is a set N = (1, . . . , N) of all nodes in
consortium organizations and α consortium nodes are needed
to participate in making a recommendation. To the node
i ∈ N ,its participation cost Ci > 0 and is independent and
identically distributed. After completing this recommendation
transaction successfully,the system receives V revenue and the
participating nodes receive rewards. Otherwise, no revenue
will be obtained. The process is shown in Fig.2.
Fig. 2: Flow chart of recommendation scheme with
reputation-based incentive mechanism
Step 1: the user publishes a task request T to the system
and shows the reward R.
Step 2: System releases task (T,R, α), where R is the total
reward to all participants and α is the threshold number of
participating nodes required for this recommendation.
Step 3: The nodes in the consortium organization choose
whether to join this recommendation.
Step 4: If the node decides to participate in the recommen-
dation, it needs a certain deposit of D, which will be returned
after completing the recommendation. But the certain deposit
will be deducted if the node participates maliciously.
Step 5: Within a certain period of time,if the number of par-
ticipating nodes reaches a threshold value,the recommendation
will complete successfully.
Step 6: The system will return the recommendation results
to the user and distribute the rewards to the participants
according to their efforts.
B. Node reputation assessment
We provide a deposit mechanism to help new nodes join
and improve credit quickly. The more the deposit, the higher
the credit. And if the node commits a breach of credit or
malicious behavior, the deposit will be deducted.First, give
the initial reputation value to the nodes that newly join the
blockchain network based on the deposit they pay.
D =
Di −Dmin
Dmax −Dmin
(1)
Where Di denotes the deposit paid by nodes, Dmax denotes
the maximum value of the deposit paid by all nodes, and Dmin
denotes the minimum value of the deposit paid by all nodes.
Then,the node’s participation positivity can be expressed as:
P =
nts
nt
(2)
Where nt denotes the number of transactions of the node,
nts denotes the number of successful transactions of the node.
Finally, in this paper, the node credit degree T is calculated
by three dimensions: node’s initial reputation value, positivity
and credibility.
T = α
(
(1− δ)
nS
n
+ δ
∑ns
i=1 Ui∑n
i=1 Ui
)
+ β
nts
nt
+
Di −Dmin
Dmax −Dmin
(3)
Where n denotes the total number of transactions of the
node, ns denotes the number of successful transactions of the
node,
∑n
i=1 Ui denotes the amount of each transaction of the
node,
∑ns
i=1 Ui denotes the amount of successful transactions
of the node.δ is a coefficient,and a larger δ means that more
emphasis is given to the failure of large transactions; if δ
is equal to 0, it means that only the number of successful
transactions is emphasized.
C. Reward distribution
The recommendation scheme contains two roles. One is
the participant, who makes resource recommendations, pays
a certain deposit Di and receives a reward after the recom-
mendation is completed; the other is the user, who publishes
the recommendation and pays a certain reward R to all the
participants. After determining a set P = (1, . . . , P ) of nodes
that successfully participated in a recommendation, the system
platform needs to calculate the reward Pi that should be paid
for each participating node Ui. If the node is not in this
set, then Ui = 0; otherwise, Ui > 0 and Ui should be no
less than the participant’s cost price Ci. Ui may be different
for different participants. In order to motivate nodes to make
credible recommendations, if the recommendations of some
participants are consistent with the final results, nodes that
are considered as credible participants H = (1, . . . , H).These
participants will receive higher additional rewards consist of
deducted margins from malicious participants.
Definition of credible node: If the reputation value T of
a consortium node exceeds the credit threshold(α), it is
315
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:00:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 3: Recommendation system’s task publishing interface
considered as a credible participant and can participate in this
recommendation.
Definition of malicious node: If the reputation value T of
a consortium node is less than the malicious threshold (β)
after the current transaction, it is considered as a malicious
participant.
Assume that there are P nodes willing to join this trans-
action for a recommendation, where the number of credible
participants is h. The number of credible participants also
contains recommendation results consistent with the final
result a and recommendation results inconsistent with the final
result b. The number of malicious participants is m = (P−h).
After deducting the cost, the utility function obtained by each
participating node is as follows.
Ui =
⎧⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎨
⎪⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
R
m
+
m∑
i=1
Di/a− ci,i ∈ P and i ∈ a,
R
m
− ci,i ∈ P and i ∈ b,
−ci,i ∈ P and i ∈ m.
(4)
When i ∈ P and i ∈ a,the node is credibly recommended
and the recommendation result is consistent with the final
result, so the node receives an additional reward
∑m
i=1 Di/a
in addition to normal rewards; when i ∈ P and i ∈ b,the node
receives a reward for normal recommendation; when i ∈ P
and i ∈ m,the node makes a malicious recommendation, so it
does not receive a reward and even loses its cost and margin.
V. DESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION OF RECOMMENDATION
SYSTEM
In this chapter,we design and implement an education
resources-oriented fair recommendation system with incentive
mechanism. We unit multiple organizations in education to
establish an education consortium blockchain. The system is
based on Fabric development environment and the operating
system adopts Ubuntu 64-bit system. The front-end system
provides a visual interface for users to interact with the smart
contract and communicates with the background process by
calling RESTful API to realize the system functions.
In the designed recommendation system,all users can view
the current tasks on the homepage, or choose to publish a
recommendation task.However,the users can be divided into
Fig. 4: Recommendation system’s consortium node interface
ordinary users and consortium nodes after registering and
logging into the system. The functions of the ordinary user side
mainly include task publishing, task progress inquiry, result
inquiry,and result feedback. The functions of the consortium
node side mainly include participation recommendation and
reward distribution. The details are as follows.
Fig.3 shows the user task publishing interface of the recom-
mendation system. When submitting a task, the user needs to
fill in the task type, task reward, deadline,and task description.
The system will generate a task based on the submitted infor-
mation and publish it to the consortium blockchain network.
Consortium nodes choose whether to join or join which task
according to the list of tasks.Users can query the task progress
and whether the transaction is successfully carried out. If the
task is not successful, users can change the reward value
and republish it; if the task is successfully carried out and
the recommendation result is derived, users can check the
recommendation result through the result query button.
Fig.4 shows the participation interface of the consortium
nodes of the fair recommendation system, which mainly
includes the participation recommendation module and the re-
ward distribution module. In the participation recommendation
module, participants can view the number of recommenda-
tions they have participated in and their historical average
recommendation success rate.Besides,they can view the rec-
ommendation tasks they are currently participating in and the
status of the recommendation tasks in a list. In the reward
distribution module, there are two parts: margin and balance.
The margin section is generally the unreturned margin, which
includes the margin for unfinished recommendation tasks and
the margin deducted for malicious recommendations by nodes.
The balance section is the reward money obtained from
recommendations. Users will transfer different amounts of
reward money to the balance account of participants according
to the different performances of participating nodes.
VI. SECURITY AND PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS
A. Security Analysis
This section discusses the resistance of proposed incentive
mechanism to collusion attacks and analyzes the robustness of
the system.
1) Analysis of anti-collusion: This chapter considers 3
types of collusion attacks.
316
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:00:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 5: Comparison of the number of recommendations per
round with and without incentives
Collusion attack among participating recommenders. Such
collusion requires more than half of the participants, which is
difficult to achieve. And when the additional reward obtained
does not exceed the benefit obtained by their credible recom-
mendations, the overall benefit of the collusion attackers is
compromised.
Collusion attack between miners and participants. Such
collusion is difficult to achieve because it requires advanced
negotiation between the participant and the miner. But in this
mechanism, miners are randomly assigned and the participant
is not sure whether this recommendation will be successful.
Collusion attack between miners and Server. Such collusion
will reduce the reward of participants to make the system
more profitable. But this type of collusion attack requires the
majority of miners in the network to reach a consensus with
the Server, which is difficult to achieve. If the participants
receive a lower reward, they will be demotivated. This result
defeats the original purpose of the incentive design.
2) Analysis of system robustness: Blockchain-based incen-
tives have inherent advantages due to the blockchain itself. On
the one hand,a centralized system would be brought down in
an attack., but blockchain has no such risk and can mitigate
the security problems for its feature of decentralization, so
it is sufficiently robust. On the other hand, the nodes in the
blockchain are all equal, so when some participating nodes in
the system are attacked, the other nodes in the system will
not be affected and the system can continue to work. Finally,
the structural features of the blockchain can also effectively
prevent data tampering.
B. Performance Analysis
To verify the effectiveness of the proposed mechanism, we
conduct simulation analysis in the following three aspects.
Firstly, analyze the change in the number of participants for
the no-incentive mechanism and the incentive mechanism.
Secondly, analyze the satisfaction level of users with the
recommendation results under different participant thresholds.
Finally, compare the overhead of the mechanism’s incentives
with other incentives.In this section, we build a consortium
Fig. 6: The effect of the number of participants on the
satisfaction of recommendation results at different thresholds
blockchain consisting of two educational organizations based
on the Fabric development environment. In this case, there are
60 users in each consortium organization, including teachers,
students,and graduates. The system environment configura-
tion is as follows: Windows10 operating system, Intel(R)
Core(TM) i5-10210U CPU @ 1.60GHz 2.11GHz processor,
16G memory, Matlab R2016a.
Firstly,to prove the necessity of introducing the incentive
mechanism,we simulate the number of participants in each
round of the recommendation system with and without an
incentive mechanism for comparison. The experimental results
are shown in Fig.5, which clearly shows that after the intro-
duction of incentives, the number of participants in each round
of the recommendation system is significantly larger.
Then, we consider the method of setting thresholds to ensure
a sufficient number of participants to improve the accuracy of
the recommendation results. Therefore,we perform a simula-
tion analysis of the user satisfaction with the recommendation
results under different thresholds. Set α to be 50, 70 and 90.
As shown in Fig.6, when the number of participants increases,
the user satisfaction with the recommendation results also
increases, and when the number of participants reaches the
threshold value, we can achieve more accurate recommen-
dation results and thus higher user satisfaction.Therefore,we
need to let the number of participants over the threshold when
designing the incentive mechanism.
Finally, compare the system incentive overhead of the
proposed Incentive Mechanism for Optimal Recommenda-
tion(ORIM) with the Reverse Auction based Dynamic Pricing
with the Virtual Participation Credit(RADP-VPC) incentive
mechanism and the Reputation-based Participatory Incentive
Mechanism(RPIM). The experiments are conducted in two
scenarios: with and without collusion participation. In the
simulation with collusion participation, the number of normal
participants is set to 60%, the number of collusion participants
is set to 40%, and 100 rounds of recommendations are set for
each scenario while guaranteeing enough consortium nodes to
participate in the recommendations.
The experimental results of the system incentive overhead
317
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:00:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 7: System incentive overhead without collusion
without collusion are showed in Fig.7.When there is no
collusion involved, the incentive overhead increases slowly
with the increase of recommended rounds, and the incentive
overhead of this mechanism remains the same. Collectively,
the system incentive overheads of all three mechanisms are
relatively small.
The experimental results of the system incentive overhead
with collusion are showed in Fig.8. When there is collu-
sion, the system incentive overhead of RADP-VPC increases
rapidly, indicating that this mechanism cannot prevent mali-
cious collusion. The system incentive overhead of RPIM grows
slowly and steadily, indicating that the mechanism can ensure
the fairness of the system to a certain extent. The system
incentive overhead of ORIM is relatively smooth, indicating
that the mechanism ensures the fairness of the system and
keeps the system incentive overhead low.
VII. CONCLUSION
The paper proposes a reputation incentive mechanism for
motivating nodes to participate in recommendation systems.
Firstly, we introduce the framework of the recommendation
scheme and the basic principles of incentive mechanism de-
sign; Secondly, we describe the reputation evaluation method
and the reward distribution process of the reputation incentive
mechanism; Finally,the proposed recommendation scheme was
implemented in the education field.The effectiveness of the
scheme is verified through experimental analysis,and the com-
parison with RADP-VPC and RPIM proves that the reputation
incentive mechanism can better prevent malicious collusion
and ensure the fairness of the system.
VIII. ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The research work was supported by the National Key
R&D Program of China (Grant No. 2020YFB1005500),the
Natural Science Foundation of the Jiangsu Higher Education
Institutions under (No.20KJB520031), and the Natural Science
Foundation of Jiangsu Province under (No.BK20200888).
Fig. 8: System incentive overhead with collusion
REFERENCES
[1] Wang H, Zheng Z, Xie S, et al. Blockchain challenges and opportunities:
a survey[J]. International Journal of Web and Grid Services, 2018, 14(4):
352.
[2] Lei A, Cruickshank H, Cao Y, et al. Blockchain-Based Dynamic Key
Management for Heterogeneous Intelligent Transportation Systems[J].
IEEE Internet of Things Journal, 2017, 4(6): 1832-1843.
[3] Li Y, Hu B. An Iterative Two-Layer Optimization Charging and Discharg-
ing Trading Scheme for Electric Vehicle Using Consortium Blockchain[J].
IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, 2020, 11(3): 2627-2637.
[4] Chen G, Xu B, Lu M, et al. Exploring blockchain technology and its
potential applications for education[J]. Smart Learning Environments,
2018, 5(1): 1-10.
[5] Zhao T, Sun G, Feng X, et al. Design of educational resources-oriented
fair recommendation system based on consortium blockchain[C]//2020
International Conference on Networking and Network Applications
(NaNA). 2020: 448-453.
[6] Teutsch J, Reitwießner C. Truebit: a scalable verification solution for
blockchains[J]. White Papers, 2018.
[7] Lee J S, Szymanski B K. Auctions as a dynamic pricing mechanism for
e-services[M]// Service Enterprise Integration.Springer, 2007: 131-156
[8] Lee J S, Hoh B. Dynamic pricing incentive for participatory sensing [J].
Pervasive and Mobile Computing, 2010, 6(6): 693-708.
[9] He Y, Li H, Cheng X, et al. A blockchain based truthful incentive
mechanism for distributed p2p applications [J]. IEEE Access, 2018, 6:
27324-27335.
[10] Hu H x, Yu W, Wen G, et al. Reverse group consensus of multiagent
systems in the cooperation-competition network[J]. IEEE Transactions on
Circuits and Systems I: Regular Papers, 2016, 63(11): 2036-2047.
[11] Geetha G, Jayakumar C. Implementation of trust and reputation manage-
ment for free-roaming mobile agent security[J]. IEEE Systems Journal,
2014, 9(2): 556-566.
[12] Zhao Y, Li Y, Mu Q, et al. Secure pub-sub: Blockchain-based fair
payment with reputation for reliable cyber physical systems[J]. IEEE
Access, 2018, 6: 12295-12303.
[13] Sharples M, Domingue J. The Blockchain and Kudos: A Distributed
System for Educational Record, Reputation and Reward [M]// Verbert K,
Sharples M, Klobučar T. Adaptive and Adaptable Learning: volume 9891.
cham: Springer International Publishing, 2016: 490-496.
[14] Yang D, Xue G, Fang X, et al. Incentive mechanisms for crowdsens-
ing: Crowdsourcing with smartphones [J]. IEEE/ACM transactions on
networking, 2015, 24(3): 1732-1744.
[15] Yang D, Xue G, Fang X, et al. Crowdsourcing to smartphones: Incentive-
mechanism design for mobile phone sensing [C]// Proceedings of the 18th
annual international conference on Mobile computing and networking.
2012: 173-184.
[16] Kroll J A, Davey I C, Felten E W. The economics of bitcoin mining, or
bitcoin in the presence of adversaries[C]//Proceedings of WEIS: volume
2013. 2013: 11.
[17] Duan L, Kubo T, Sugiyama K, et al. Incentive mechanisms for
smartphone collaboration in data acquisition and distributed comput-
ing[C]//2012 Proceedings IEEE INFOCOM. IEEE, 2012: 1701-1709.
318
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:00:48 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.