DVIT—A Decentralized Virtual Items Trading Forum with Reputation System 
Citation: Ying, Z.; Lan, W.; Deng, C.;
Liu, L.; Liu, X. DVIT—A
Decentralized Virtual Items Trading
Forum with Reputation System.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429. https://
doi.org/10.3390/math11020429
Academic Editor: Antanas Cenys
Received: 25 November 2022
Revised: 27 December 2022
Accepted: 6 January 2023
Published: 13 January 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
mathematics
Article
DVIT—A Decentralized Virtual Items Trading Forum with
Reputation System †
Zuobin Ying 1,*, Wusong Lan 1, Chen Deng 2, Lu Liu 3 and Ximeng Liu 4
1 Faculty of Data Science, City University of Macau, Macau, China
2 National Institute of Education (NIE), Nanyang Technological University, Singapore 637616, Singapore
3 Faculty of Finance, City University of Macau, Macau, China
4 College of Computer and Data Science, Fuzhou University, Fuzhou 350025, China
* Correspondence: zbying@cityu.mo
† An earlier version of this paper was presented at the Conference on CCNIS2022. Its number is ccnis2022-0053.
This article is one of the results of MOST-FDCT Projects (0058/2019/AMJ, 2019YFE0110300) (Research and
Application of Cooperative Multi-Agent Platform for Zhuhai-Macao Manufacturing Service).
Abstract: The metaverse provides us with an attractive virtual space in which the value of the virtual
property has been increasingly recognized. However, the lack of effective cross-metaverse trading
tools and the reputation guarantee makes it difficult to trade items among different metaverses. To
this end, a decentralized reputation system for virtual items trading forum named DVIT is devised.
To the best of our knowledge, DVIT is the first decentralized cross-metaverse item trading prototype
inspired by the online-game trading system. We designed the corresponding transaction function and
realized the autonomous governance of the community by introducing the reputation mechanism. An
improved election mechanism is proposed to improve efficiency based on Delegated Proof-of-Stake
(DPoS). Through token rewards associated with activity levels, users’ motivation can be stimulated.
The experiments indicate that our proposed scheme could dynamically measure the trustworthiness
degree of the users through the dynamic reputation value and thereby exclude malicious users from
the blockchain within 20 epochs.
Keywords: metaverse; blockchain; DPoS; video games; virtual economy; virtual worlds
MSC: 68M14
1. Introduction
Metaverse, a digital world parallel to reality, also reckoned as the post-reality universe,
integrates a perpetual and persistent multiuser environment with physical reality through
digital virtuality, in which each person can have a virtual avatar [1]. In many film and
television productions, such as Ready Player One (A film Directed by Steven Spielberg in
2018), people have shown a passionate imagination for living in a virtual space called the
Oasis with advanced devices [2]. Now, our imaginations about the metaverse are no longer
illusory. In 2021, Facebook changed its name to Meta, which completely ignited the fever
of the metaverse. The company would invest many billions of dollars in the metaverse [3].
According to the survey by Statista, 67.65% of the companies interviewed believe that the
metaverse market is going to boom in the next five years [4].
However, to achieve reliability, the metaverse still faces a series of problems. For
example, different companies are competing to launch their metaverses. For technical
and commercial reasons, these metaverses are not interconnected and will continue to be
isolated from each other for the foreseeable future [5]. What if the person from different
metaverses wants to exchange stuff or commodities with each other? Take two virtual
characters, Alice and Bob, who live in two different metaverses as an example. If Alice has
a virtual closet in metaverse α, and now she wants to exchange it with Bob in metaverse β
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429. https://doi.org/10.3390/math11020429 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/mathematics
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11020429
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11020429
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/mathematics
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4238-3295
https://doi.org/10.3390/math11020429
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/mathematics
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/math11020429?type=check_update&version=1
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 2 of 23
for a virtual coat. Unless there is already sufficient trust between her and Bob, a trusted
third party is needed to go through this transaction. However, introducing a trusted third
party would result in a high trading fee and high delay. Moreover, it will also become
the bottleneck when cross-metaverse trading increases explosively. To our knowledge,
there exists no sufficient solution for trading virtual assets across the metaverses, and in
the foreseeable future, due to technical and commercial considerations, metaverses will
continue to be independent of each other [6]. Although many metaverse developers have
tried to formulate a unified set of guidelines for all metaverses, such as the Web3.0 Open
Metaverse Alliance (OMA3) and The Metaverse Standards Forum (MSF), they are still some
distance away from being put into use [7,8]. Solving this problem will be beneficial both for
the current metaverse market and for the future development of a more complete economy
in the metaverse.
Given the fact that we have not entered the metaverse yet, we need to simulate
virtual transactions between metaverse by other means. Video games, for example, are a
considerable option. First, there is ample precedent for using video games for real-world
simulation. In 2005, a virtual plague broke out in World of Warcraft (A multiplayer online
role-playing game released in 2004 by Blizzard Entertainment). Due to game developers’
mistakes, a disease (i.e., Corrupted Blood) could make players lose life continuously
and spread among players in the game world. Because of its many similarities to real-
world outbreaks of infectious diseases, some infectious disease propagation models were
proposed through the inspiration of Role-Playing Games [9]. Secondly, we found that the
trading pattern among different metaverses has the most in common with the m in some
old video games. Forums are a common form of community on the Internet for enthusiasts
to communicate with each other. There is a category of forums where players can trade
in-game items with other players. Because it has a wide user base and a mature trading
system, we decide to use forums to simulate virtual item trading in the metaverse [10].
In this paper, we introduce DVIT—a decentralized reputation system for virtual item
trading forums. The main contributions of this paper are summarized as follows.
• To the authors’ knowledge, we are the first to construct a decentralized in-game item-
trading forum system. Not only do we design a series of functions to realize the selling
and renting of the virtual stuff, but we also put forward a dispute adjudication system
for players to resolve the controversy.
• An improved election mechanism is devised to improve efficiency on the basis of
Delegated Proof-of-Stake. Through token rewards associated with activity levels, the
motivation of users can be increased.
• The simulation experiments indicate that our proposed scheme could dynamically
measure the trustworthiness degree of the users through the dynamic reputation value.
Therefore, malicious users would be excluded from the blockchain within 20 epochs.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces the preliminaries.
Section 3 presents the proposed model. Section 4 presents the model designed in this paper.
Section 5 presents simulations. Section 6 presents the performance analysis. Section 7 is the
related work, and Section 8 is the conclusion and future work.
2. Preliminaries
In this section, we introduce the building blocks used in our solution, including
blockchain consensus algorithms, the reputation value system, and the background knowl-
edge of in-game item-trading platforms.
2.1. Blockchain Consensus Algorithms
The prevailing in-game item-trading forums model has the disadvantage of being
too centralized. Therefore, we need to establish trust and consensus among strangers
while reducing centralization. Blockchain is a chain of blocks that store all committed
transactions using a public ledger [11]. Blockchain has some key characteristics, such as
decentralization, transparency, immutability, and audibility [12]. According to different
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 3 of 23
consensus algorithms, blockchains can be classified as Proof-of-Work (PoW), Proof-of-Stake
(PoS), and Delegated Proof-of-Stake (DPoS) [13]. DPoS is developed from PoS and is a
currently popular consensus algorithm. In DPoS, users will vote and elect delegates (or
witnesses) to validate the next block [14]. DPoS is considered by its supporters to be
more democratic than PoS. DPoS allows more qualified users to participate in the election
process [15]. Further, the speed of block confirmation in DPoS is faster than in PoS [16].
Moreover, DPoS is considered by some scholars to require less energy than PoW [17]. There
will be much less tendency to create forks on DPoS [18].
2.2. Reputation Value System
Blockchains may face many security vulnerabilities, such as 51% attack and Double-
spending attack [19]. If there is no way to distinguish the evil users who have carried out
attacks from normal users, it will pose a risk to the security of the blockchain. In order to
improve the security of the blockchain, we introduce a reputation value system. When the
node behaves well, it will receive the corresponding reputation value as a reward, and the
reputation value will be reduced as punishment when the node misbehaves [20]. DPoS
blockchain faces the problem of increasing centralization due to the decreasing motivation
of users to participate [21]. Therefore, we combine traditional DPoS with a reputation-
based voting mechanism to increase the participation of nodes [16]. On the other hand, to
motivate nodes to behave well, we also introduce an incentive system [22].
2.3. Merkle Tree
The Merkle tree is a fundamental part of blockchain technology that realizes data
availability and traceability [23]. It is a type of tree where the lower base elements are called
leaves while the top element is called the Merkle root. The bottommost leaf node contains
the stored data or its hash value, and non-leaf nodes (including intermediate and root
nodes) are hashes of the contents of its two child nodes [24]. Merkle trees are formed by
repeating pairs of hash nodes until only one hash, the Merkle root remains. The structure is
shown in the diagram.
In Figure 1, we show the basic structure of the Merkle tree. First, let H(.) be the
hash function. The leaf nodes Hashi can be calculated by the input data DATAi, such
as Hasha = H(DATAa). The next layer is donated by leaf nodes Hashi, and the interme-
diate nodes can be computed by Hashab = H(Hasha, Hashb). Then we repeat the above
operation. Finally, we get the root node result by Hashabcd = H(Hashab, Hashcd) [25].
Figure 1. The Merkle Tree.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 4 of 23
Merkle trees allow secure, efficient, and consistent validation of large volumes of data.
Any changes to the underlying data will be passed to its parent node, layer by layer, to the
root node. If attackers tampered with any transactions, the Merkle tree root hash value
would be incorrect [26]. Merkle tree can help in improving the efficiency of blockchain
verification. It would be cumbersome for nodes to store the full blockchain ledger to verify
transactions, but with the Simplified Payment Verification (SPV) technique, verifying the
inclusion of transactions would be easy. For each block, a Merkle tree is constructed using
the transactions in the block as leaf nodes. Light nodes stored the Merkle root [27]. Merkel
tree can also be combined with DPoS. The selected block generators need to prove their
identity before generating blocks. They can create a delegated proof with the Merkle root
and a Merkle verification path from the Merkle tree. The Merkle root can be used to verify
that the block signer used the correct set of delegates and by providing a valid Merkle
verification path from their uids to the Merkle root, which means they can prove their
identity [28].
2.4. In-Game Item-Trading Platform
Diablo II is a classic action role-playing video game developed by Blizzard North
which has developed a mature and complete in-game item-trading ecology. Due to the
limitations of Diablo II, players usually choose to use the forum for online item trading. We
introduce some of the mainstream trading platforms and their features as follows.
Blizzard has an official forum (https://eu.forums.blizzard.com/en/d2r/c/trade/9,
accessed on 10 August 2022) for Diablo II which supports trading between players. Except
for the official forums, there are a number of third-party trading sites. Kaienzhijiao (https:
//bbs.d.163.com/, accessed on 10 August 2022) is a forum where you can trade with other
players. Traderie (https://traderie.com/diablo2resurrected, accessed on 10 August 2022)
is a website where you can exchange your in-game items with other players. On those
websites or forums, real-money trading is not allowed. Players need to swap in-game
items with items. When players are desperate for in-game items, they have other options.
Anheihe (http://d3.17173.com/content/2022-07-18/20220718202629902.shtml, accessed on
10 August 2022) is a mini program based on Wechat where players can trade in-game items
of Diablo II. Players can conduct real-money trades in disguise through a kind of token it
offers. There is a forum called d2jsp (https://www.d2jsp.org/, accessed on 10 August 2022)
where users can perform real-money trading by tokens. Due to Diablo II’s large player base,
it is profitable to engage in in-game item trading. Therefore, naturally, some businessmen
set their eyes on this place. DD373 (https://www.dd373.com/s-1psrbm.html, accessed on
10 August 2022) is a professional in-game item-trading platform on which in-game items
are sold at the price of CNY.
Most of these platforms are centralized. They are under the control of a small number
of administrators, while normal users are not involved in the governance of the community.
In some trading platforms, such as Traderie, Anheihe, and DD373, past trading records are
not directly disclosed, which has created a barrier for players to understand the correct
price. The next part of our work is improving the existing trading platform mechanism.
3. Proposed Model
In this section, we formalize the system model and the threat model. The system
definitions and goals of the proposed system will be introduced in this section.
3.1. System Model
Figure 2 depicts the DVIT system architecture. The system has five entities, and the
introduction of these entities is as follows:
• Normal Users (NUs) are active game players on the forum. They have their nodes on
the blockchain. They are honest and want to make transactions with other players.
• The Forum (TF) provides a space for users to communicate. Transactions take place
between members on TF.
https://eu.forums.blizzard.com/en/d2r/c/trade/9
https://bbs.d.163.com/
https://bbs.d.163.com/
https://traderie.com/diablo2resurrected
http://d3.17173.com/content/2022-07-18/20220718202629902.shtml
https://www.d2jsp.org/
https://www.dd373.com/s-1psrbm.html
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 5 of 23
• Administrators (ADM) on TF are responsible for supervising transactions and inter-
vening when players can not resolve problems.
• The blockchain (BC) records transactions of NUs. Trading between users will be per-
formed on the BC by tokens. In addition, the BC supports some extended functionality
such as in-game item-trading of Non-Fungible Token (NFT).
• Evil Users (EVs) are users who would pose a threat to the order of transactions.
Some EVs try to steal in-game items while trading. Some EVs are sent by competing
platforms to disrupt the normal functioning of this forum.
3.2. Threaten Model
In our model, TF and BC need to work together to keep the system running properly.
It is assumed that TF and BC are fully trusted, which means they will follow all protocols
and will not collude with EVs. NUs are assumed to be honest and rational. They will
tend to follow the rules. EVs are evil. They will break the rules to profit or interfere with
the normal order of the system. EVs can pose a threat to the system at various points.
When trading, EVs will induce other players to trade at too high or too low prices. In the
block-minting process of DPoS, EVs may disrupt the operation of BC by deliberately not
generating blocks after they are elected.
3.3. System Definitions
1. Setup: The Setup algorithm is executed by TF. The master key MK and public key PK
are generated by the ADM with a security parameter SP and attributes of the ADM
AM. SP should be kept confidential. MK and PK will be used to generate their keys
for the registered users. The Setup process is described as: (AM, SP)→ (MK, PK).
2. Keygen{(MK, PK, I) → ki, kpi}: When NUs generate nodes on BC, they can request
the administrators of TF to generate keys that belong to them. After administrators
receive a request from user i, they will generate a personal secret key ki and a public
key kpi for user i using the user’s personal information I, MK, and PK. When users
are elected as witnesses, they can use secret keys to sign the blocks generated by them.
3. Encryption: When a NU i is elected as a witness, i is required to sign the transaction
with the personal secret key ki on the block that i generates. The details of the
election process will be described below. It takes i’s personal secret key ki and the
details or trading TD as input and sigi, the signature of witness i as output like:
(ki, TD)→ (sigi).
4. Decryption: When users challenge whether a transaction is recorded by user i, they can
verify the sigi with i’s public key kpi. If the transaction was recorded by the correct
user, the TD that matches the transaction record will be decrypted from sigi. If the
block was produced by an impostor, then the decryption of sigi will fail. It takes sigi
and kpi as input and TD as output, such as (kpi, sigi)→ (TD).
3.4. Goals of the Proposed System
The proposed system defines the following design goals:
3.4.1. Security
Given security is the first thing that needs to be ensured in the trading process, we
add the BC to the original forum mechanism. Tokens for transactions will be transferred
on the BC, making the process secure. Furthermore, we have added a dispute adjudication
mechanism for transactions ensuring controversial transactions will be resolved in time.
3.4.2. Transparency
It is necessary to show the record of transactions in the forum to NUs because it will
save them from being cheated by EVs. Accordingly, we record all transactions and make
them available to all players by BC.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 6 of 23
3.4.3. Decentralization
A BC is introduced to avoid the possible tampering and deletion of transaction records
in the traditional forum mechanism. Moreover, we set incentives based on reputation value
so that NUs will spontaneously record transactions and resolve disputes in transactions.
Witnesses for generating blocks will be elected by NUs themselves.
As Table 1 shows, our DVIT has quite a few improvements over the existing common
in-game item-trading platforms.  in the table indicates that the characteristic is met while
% indicates that the characteristic is not met. DVIT provides a decentralized, democratic
and transparent trading system. In the next section, we will introduce more details about
the construction we proposed.
Table 1. Features of Trading Platforms.
Names of Trading
Platforms Forum Real-Money Trade Decentralized Users Participation in
Management
Open Transaction
Records
the Offcial Forum  % % %  
Kaienzhijiao  % % %  
Traderie % % % % %
Anheihe %  % % %
d2jsp   % %  
DD373 %  % % %
DVIT      
Figure 2. The System Model of DVIT.
4. Detailed DVIT
In this section, we give the concrete construction of the proposed trading system. We
present the detail of the reputation value system, the witnesses’ election system, and the
dispute adjudication system. We also introduce the details of the in-game item-trading
forum, such as Trading, Renting, and in-game item-trading NFT.
Our trading system is based on Diablo II, a classic game with a relatively well-
developed forum trading mechanism. We will give a brief introduction to how to use
the system in the following part. First of all, new users need to register an account. To
make themselves trustworthy, they need to pledge some tokens on the chain, which can be
exchanged for cryptocurrencies such as Eths.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 7 of 23
4.1. Calculation of Reputation Value
After users successfully register on the BC, the reputation value of their nodes will be
calculated by the following steps.
Step 1: irep0, which is the fixed reputation value of user i, is calculated based on the
number of tokens pledged by i on BC as the initial reputation value. The upper limit of
irep0 is 60, and irep0 does not change over time. The reputation value for new participants
will generally be designed to be half of the maximum reputation value, and we set the
irep0 to fluctuate with the number of pledged tokens to encourage users to pledge more
tokens [29].
Step 2: To avoid the disadvantage of not actively voting by nodes in the traditional
DPoS consensus, when NUs cast a vote in the election of witnesses or dispute adjudication,
NUs will receive three points of reputation value as a reward [30]. This part of reputation
value is called dynamic reputation value, which changes over time. First, calculating irepa,
the reputation value user i got in the last 0–10 epochs.
Step 3: Calculating irepb, the reputation value user i got in the last 10–20 epochs.
Step 4: The actual reputation value of user i, irep, consists of a fixed reputation value
and dynamic reputation value. The formula to calculate irep is as in (1). Weight w in this
paper is 1/3. We set the weight to avoid the unlimited accumulation of the reputation
value. Their newly acquired reputation value will have a greater weight than the previously
acquired one because recent positive behavior will bring more influence [31].
irep = irep0 + irepa + w ∗ irepb (1)
4.2. Assessment of Reputation State
According to irep, we classify users into several reputation states. The notation of the
reputation state of user i is irst. There are four states of irst: G, W, N, and B, which represent
the i’s reputation states as “Great", “Well", “Normal", and “Bad". How to calculate irst is
represented in Algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 Evaluation of irst.
Input: Reputation value of user i: irep.
Output: Reputation state of user i: irst.
if irep > 70 then
irst = G . User i’s reputation state is “Great"
else if irep > 50 then
irst = W . User i’s reputation state is “Well"
else if irep > 40 then
irst = N . User i’s reputation state is “Normal"
else
irst = B . User i’s reputation state is “Bad"
end if
In DPoS, transactions will be recorded by witnesses, and any users registered on TF
can be nominated as a candidate or participate in a vote if they meet the conditions. To keep
the system safe, users must reach the reputation target to participate in the election. When
irst = N, W, and G, user i can vote for others; when irst = W, G, user i can be nominated as
a candidate. Users can vote for others whether they were nominated as a candidate or not.
The specific voting process in an election phase is shown in Algorithm 2. In the following
part, we introduce the various features of the forum.
4.3. Witnesses Election
The election of Witnesses will take place by the following steps and will be open to
any registered nodes that meet the criteria:
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 8 of 23
Step 1: The system generates a list of candidates Candidate[ ]. Users whose irst = W, G
will be added to Candidate[ ].
Step 2: Users whose irst = N, W, and G can vote for users in Candidate[ ].
Step 3: At the end of the voting phase, users in Candidate[ ] will be ranked in de-
scending order according to the votes they receive. The top X users in Candidate[ ] will
become witnesses and be included in Witness[ ]. Blocks will be generated by the users in
Witness[ ].
Algorithm 2 Election process.
Input: Reputation value of user i: irst, Other users’ ballots.
Output: Dynamic reputation value of user i: irepa, newly generated blocks, token rewards.
witnesses voting process
if irst = N then . Determining user i’s reputation state
user i can vote to others
if irst = W then . Determining user i’s reputation state
user i can be nominated as a candidate
if user i being elected as a witness then . Determining the identity of user i
generate a block
receive handling fee reward by reputation value
end if
end if
end if
if user i voted in this epoch then
irepa + 3 . Reward for user i’s participation in voting
end if
4.4. Forum Functions
• Trading in-game items. To begin with, seller Use displays the in-game items, Iit, to be
sold, its price Ipri, and seller i’s id ni in a posting (Iit, Ipri, ni) on TF. Then buyer Ubu
can initiate trade requests to sellers on TF. After Ubu and Use confirm the details of the
transaction, they can start the transaction on the BC through smart contracts.
Step 1: Use and Ubu make the final confirmation about the Iit and Ipri in the posting on
TF. After that, the post will be locked.
Step 2: Ubu locks the tokens on the BC.
Step 3: Ubu and Use hand over the It in the game.
Step 4: Ubu and Use confirm the transaction on the BC by voting; they can choose yes
or no in voting. If the result is < yes, yes >, the transaction will complete, and the
tokens will be sent to the Use’s account. If either party selects no in the confirmation
vote, the tokens will be locked on the BC and enter the dispute adjudication phase.
The blockchain has already been introduced into the supply chain to record food
safety-related messages [32]. Inspired by this, we will record all transactions on the
BC. Those recorded messages will be defined as:
Msellx = [sigo||timestamp||nBu||nSe||TD] (2)
where sigo, the signature of witness o, is the signature on TD using the signing key ko.
The details of sigo is hash(timestamp||nBu||nSe||TD). nSe is the Use’s node id, nBu is the
Ubu’s node id, and TD is the details about this trade. This information is non-falsifiable
and publicly available.
• Renting in-game items. The process of renting is similar to buying and selling in-game
items. First, lessees Ule initiate lease requests by posting on TF and lock the deposit
Dep and rents Ren on BC. The posting (Iit, Dep, Ren) is about the Iit that Ule wants
and Dep and Ren that Ulo would give. Then, lessors Ulo should send It to Ule. When
the lease period is over, the Ule needs to return the Iit in time. If any dispute occurs
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 9 of 23
during the transaction, it could be resolved by the dispute adjudication mechanism.
The details are as follows:
Step 1: Ule locks tokens as Dep and Ren on the BC and posts lease requests. After
communication, Ule and Ulo make the final confirmation about the Iit, Dep, and Ren
in the posting on TF. Afterward, the post will be locked.
Step 2: Ule and Ulo hand over the Iit in the game, Ule should return It in time.
Step 3: When the lease expires, Ulo and Ule confirm the transaction on BC by voting.
They can choose yes or no in voting. If the result is < yes, yes >, the transaction
completes, and Ren will be transferred to Ulo’s account while Dep will be returned
to Ule’s account. If either party selects no in the confirmation vote, the token will be
locked on BC and enters the dispute adjudication phase. If the Ule defaults on the
contract, Dep may be given to the Ulo as compensation.
Messages of the lease process will be recorded on the chain like:
Mrentx = [sigo||timestamp||nLo||nLe||TD] (3)
where sigo is the signature of witness o, its detail is hash(timestamp||nLo||nLe||TD).
nLo is Ulo’s node id, nLe is the Ule’s node, and TD means the details about this trading
of in-game item information and rental date.
• In-game item-trading NFT. For players to buy in-game items in bulk, we introduce
the in-game item-trading NFT iNFT. Players who irst = G can submit a request for
minting iNFT to the forum administrators. After verifying that the players have a
sufficient number of in-game items, administrators will mint an iNFT for players, and
the following information will be recorded in the iNFT:
Mn f tx = [siga||timestamp||in||ni] (4)
where siga is the signature of administrator a, and the detail of siga is
hash(timestamp||ni||na||in). in is the information about the in-game items, such as
names and amounts, and ni is the id of Uis, the player who submits the mint request.
na is the id of the administrator a. An iNFT can be traded on the BC as the equivalent
of a specified number of in-game items. The user who holds the iNFT can send a
redemption request to Uis. The redemption process is as follows:
1. The holder initiates a redemption transaction with Uis.
2. Uis delivers in-game items to the holder according to ni.
3. Uis and the holder confirm the transaction, and if either party does not confirm,
the transaction proceeds to the dispute adjudication stage. If both parties confirm
that the transaction is correct, a request is sent to the administrator to burn the
iNFT.
4. Administrator burns the iNFT after confirming the request.
The trading processes and the delivery processes of iNFTs will be recorded on the BC
too. Users can also use in-game items from other games to mint an iNFT for trading.
• Handling fees system. After recording tradings, witnesses will receive a pro-rate han-
dling fee. To ensure the security of transactions and to increase the motivation of users
to maintain a high reputation value, the distribution of transactions between witnesses
is by the reputation value. All witnesses will be ranked in order of reputation value
from highest to lowest. The witness with the highest reputation value will be respon-
sible for recording transactions with the highest value, and so on. There is often a
big price gap between different in-game items. In Table 2, we show the difference in
item prices in Diablo II on a trading forum by fg (The token used in the forums). The
in-game items on the game forums usually consist of a large number of low-value
in-game items and a small number of high-value in-game items, which means the
handling fees will have a big difference between transactions.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 10 of 23
• Dispute adjudication system. When a dispute arises dur g users’ trading on the forum,
it goes to the dispute adjudication stage. First, the accounts and tokens held by both
parties will be locked. Then the system will randomly select 11 users that Rsti! = B to
form the jury. The two users in the dispute, users A and B, will be required to present
various pieces of evidence to the jury, such as records of chats, screenshots of games,
etc. The jury will need to vote to decide after viewing the evidence, and the vote will
be given a weight λ based on the voters’ reputation rating. The better the reputation
rating is, the higher the λ of the voting is. Algorithm 3 shows how user i’s votes are
counted.
li is the final result of user i’s vote, and L is the final decision in dispute adjudication,
which is calculated by ∑11
k=1 lk = L. The rule for judging the adjudication process is
shown below. If user i abstains or does not vote within the time limit, li0 = 0. When
L = 0, the system will randomly select a user whose irst = G to join the jury to vote
until L! = 0. Users who are found guilty must compensate the victim, and all their
pledged tokens will be confiscated while their accounts will be banned.{
L > 0, user B is guilty
L < 0, user A is guilty
(5)
Algorithm 3 Dispute adjudication.
Input: Initial voting result of user i: li0.
Output: Final result of user i’s vote: li.
if user i supports user A then
li0 = 1 . The Original Voting Result of user i
else if user i supports user B then
li0 = −1 . The Original Voting Result of user i
end if
if irst = N then . Calculate the voting weight of user i based on reputation state
λ = 0.7
else if irst = W then . The weight of user i’s voting will be higher when useri’s reputation state
is higher
λ = 1
else if irst = G then
λ = 1.41
end if
li = λ ∗ li0 . The Final Voting Result of user i
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 11 of 23
Table 2. Item Prices in Diablo II Measured in Forum Token.
Name of Item Price in fg
Unid eth demonlime tyrant club 5
Unid eth blackhand key 5
Unid shadowkiller 5
Firelizards Talon 5
Rising sun 5
Unid vampire gaze 10
Angelic ring 5
Nats mask 5
Aldurs full set 20
Ber 750
Jah 650
5. Simulation and Discussion
We present the simulation of the reputation value mechanism and handling fee mech-
anism in this section. For experimental performance, simulations were implemented under
various conditions and compared with the traditional reputation value mechanism.
5.1. Simulation of the New Reputation Value Mechanism
Our experimental simulation (except data decryption) was simulated on a PC with
Windows 11, 11th Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-11800H @2.30 GHz, and 16 GB RAM. Simulation
experiments were conducted for the designed forum reputation value system to prove
the effectiveness of the design. Usually, the user’s reputation value does not change over
time. Therefore, after users have acquired enough reputation value, their motivation to
participate decreases rapidly; an aging mechanism can be introduced to the system, which
will make reputation values decrease over time [33]. In the first part of the simulation,
we will simulate the process of users participating in the election voting and receiving
reputation value rewards, as Figure 3 shows. There are five nodes in the experiment: Alice,
Bob, Charlie, Dave, and Eve. The probability of their participation in voting is 90%, 60%,
60%, 30%, and 90%. Their fixed reputation values are Arep0: 50, Brep0: 60, Crep0: 50, Drep0: 60,
and Erep0: 60. At the beginning of the experiment, their dynamic reputation values are 0. It
is worth mentioning that Eve is a malicious user who will intentionally not generate a block
after being selected as a witness. Figure 4 a shows the change in their reputation value
over 30 epochs under our system design. In the graph, the horizontal coordinates represent
the time. An epoch represents an election process. The vertical coordinate indicates nodes’
actual reputation values Arep, Brep, Crep, Drep, and Erep. The lower limit of the vertical
coordinate is 50. When irep = 50, irst = N, user i cannot be nominated as a candidate.
At the beginning of the experiment, we can see that Bob and Dave take the lead by
relying on their high starting reputation value. However, Arep is the highest in epoch 30
because of Alice’s highest participation rate. The change in Crep is noteworthy. In the
beginning, Charlie quickly accumulated reputation value by frequently voting, making
a sharp rise in Crep. However, after epoch 19 Crep started to drop significantly. It was
due to Charlie’s non-voting over a while, and the reputation value accumulated earlier
started to expire. Dave has the lowest voting intention, so Drep remains in the lower range
even though Drep0 is 60. Eve will intentionally not generate blocks when Eve becomes
a witness. Eve will try to keep voting to earn reputation value. However, due to the
penalty mechanism, after epoch 17, Eve was disqualified from being nominated as a
witness. In epoch 30, the users with the highest reputation values are Alice and Bob, the
former has the highest willingness to vote, and the latter has a huge number of tokens
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 12 of 23
pledged. It represents that our system can select two types of users that we believe are
more trustworthy: those with a high willingness to vote and those who have pledged
ample tokens.
Figure 3. The simulation of the new reputation value mechanism.
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Figure 4. The Simulation of the Reputation Value. (a) The reputation value changes in DVIT with the
different fixed reputation values. (b) The reputation value changes in the traditional DPoS mechanism
with the different fixed reputation values. (c) The reputation value changes in DVIT with the same
fixed reputation values. (d) The reputation value changes in the traditional DPoS mechanism with
the same fixed reputation values.
Figure 4b shows the result of the same behavior of the same group of users in the
traditional reputation value system. Not including a dynamic reputation mechanism poses
two main problems. The first one is the reputation value will unlimitedly increase, which
will make it hard for new users to catch up with old users. We can see Arep, Brep, and
Crep reached 90 before epoch 20. Even if an upper limit is designed for the reputation
value, users may not participate in voting at all after accumulating enough reputation
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 13 of 23
values. The vitality of the forum will be weakened. The second one is evil users can keep
their nomination by constant voting. In epoch 21, Erep was deducted for not generating
blocks. However, in epoch 25, Erep is 70, which is higher than in epoch 21. Eve can
keep replenishing the reputation value deducted for doing evil. It greatly increases the
destructiveness of the forum system by evil users. What is more, we compare the changes in
reputation values for Alice and Eve under both the old and new mechanisms in Figure 5a.
(a) (b)
Figure 5. The comparisons of simulation. (a) The changes in reputation values for Alice and Eve
under both the old and new mechanisms. (b) The changes in reputation values with 10 nodes in
100 epochs.
When users have the same fixed reputation value, more active participation can bring
more rewards. Figure 4c shows the result of the simulation when users have the same
reputation value in the beginning. With the highest voting intention, Arep is the highest
after 30 epochs compared to other users. Because of the similar willingness to vote, Brep
and Crep are close in the last epochs. As a lazy voter, Dave’s reputation value is the lowest
after 30 epochs compared to the first three. Drep is lower than 61 in epoch 30. Since the
reputation value was deducted at the beginning due to rule violations, Eve could not meet
the conditions to participate in the witness election for some time afterward.
Figure 4d shows the result of the simulation when users have the same reputation
value in the beginning but without a dynamic reputation mechanism. Drep is significantly
lower than other users in terms of reputation value due to low voting frequency. After
30 epochs, Alice, Bob, and Charlie have all accumulated a significant reputation value.
These cases are similar to Figure 4b. It shows the necessity of a dynamic reputation
mechanism.
In Figure 5b, we extended the test period to 100 epochs and added 5 new nodes to
show the performance of the DVIT reputation system under longer periods and more
users. The fixed reputation value of New user 1 is 55, and the probability of New user
1 participating in voting is 80%; The fixed reputation value of New user 2 is 55, and the
probability of New user 2 participating in voting is 30%; The fixed reputation value of
New user 3 is 50, and the probability of New user 3 participating in voting is 50%; The
fixed reputation value of New user 4 is 60, and the probability of New user 4 participating
in voting is 50%; What is more, we add Evil User 2 whose fixed reputation value is 60
and is 30% likely to participate in voting. As the result shows, the new simulation result
shows similar outcomes to the original one. Users with a high willingness to vote or
have pledged ample tokens gain more reputation value, and we believe those users are
more trustworthy. Malicious users are also all quickly removed by the system without
administrator intervention. This suggests that our system can also serve to encourage
nodes to behave well and select better-quality witnesses over a longer period.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 14 of 23
5.2. Simulation of the New Handling Fee Mechanism
In the second part of the experiment, we tested the impact of different reward allo-
cation mechanisms on users with high reputation value. As shown in Figure 6, in the
original mechanism, the witness will be randomly assigned to record some transactions
and receive a corresponding fee. However, with the new mechanism, the witness with the
highest reputation value will obtain the highest value transactions. In the experiment, we
simulated the handling fee revenue of two nodes within 30 epochs. Alice has an average
reputation value, while Bob has the highest reputation value in the forum. In the simulation
environment, it is assumed that the items traded in the forum consist of 90% low-priced
items and 90% high-priced items.
Figure 6. The simulation of the new handling fee mechanism.
The simulation under the traditional DPoS mechanism is shown in Figure 7a; all nodes
will be assigned a lot of low-value transactions and a few high-value transactions. In the
graph, we use bar charts to compare the handling fees received by Alice and Bob. We
set every five epochs as an EPeriod. We define Alice’s handling income in Eperiod k as Ahk
and Bob’s handling income in Eperiod k as Bhk. The percentage of income in Eperiod k Θk is
calculated as:
Θk =
Ahk
Ahk + Bhk
(6)
As shown in Figure 7a, Bob earns more in Eperiod 1, Eperiod 3 and Eperiod 5, while Alice
earns more in Eperiod 2, Eperiod 4 and Eperiod 6. Θ1, Θ3 and Θ5 are lower than 0.4 while Θ2,
Θ4 and Θ6 are higher than 0.6. It shows how random the traditional allocation mechanism
is. A higher reputation value does not provide more benefit to the user at this point, which
makes users have less incentive to maintain it.
With the new transaction mechanism, since the value of the assigned transaction is
proportional to the reputation value of the node, the node with the highest reputation value
can record transactions with the highest value all the time. In Figure 7b, Bob’s handling
fee income is significantly higher than Alice’s in every Eperiod. Θ1 to Θ6 all stay lower
than 0.2. In the simulation of 6 Eperiod, we increased the revenue of users with the highest
reputation value, which shows nodes with high reputation value are rewarded. Nodes
in the system will work harder to improve their reputation value to compete with other
nodes. The problem of low willingness to participate in DPoS can be solved. The forum
will also become more dynamic.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 15 of 23
(a) (b)
Figure 7. The simulation of handling fees. (a) The handling fee incomes in the traditional DPoS
mechanism. (b) The handling fee incomes in DVIT.
6. Performance Analysis
We present the security, efficiency, and scalability analysis regarding the theoretical
analysis in this section.
6.1. Security
The proposed system in this paper has good resistance against data tampering. Using
the blockchain, the recorded transactions will not be tampered with. Impersonation attacks
are where someone poses as another entity, which has various forms [33]. The identity of
the block generator can be verified through the digital signature sig in the recorded message
M. Because of the introduction of timestamp, Replay Attacks launched by attackers can also
be resisted [34]. Transactions via tokens on the blockchain can reduce the risk of transfers.
6.2. Effectiveness
Our DPoS blockchain-based forum trading system for in-game items has several
advantages over the currently available forum systems. It enables decentralized and
more transparent trading without making huge changes to the original forum trading
system. Compared to the original DPoS algorithm, the DPoS algorithm we use increases
the willingness of users to participate in voting by adding a reputation system.
6.3. Scalability
Our system does not need to limit the number of participants. The number of witnesses
and the size of the production blocks can be changed by the administrator in TF, which
brings greater flexibility to our system. Our in-game item-trading NFT has no small
prospect as well. With the consent of the administrator, players can use items from other
games, or even virtual items from the metaverse, to mint an iNFT. Our system can be used
to trade virtual items between metaverse in the future.
7. Related Work
In this section, we introduce some relative work about this article, including the state
of blockchain technology and a vision of the future of the metaverse.
7.1. Blockchain Technology
7.1.1. Applications of Blockchain Technology
There are many applications of blockchains now. For example, blockchains can con-
tribute to the circular economy (CE). It helps record the consumption of resources so that the
general public can audit the environmental friendliness of the production process. People
can better manage the destination of various recyclable resources on a waste recycling
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 16 of 23
platform built on blockchain and smart contract technology [35]. Blockchain technology is
considered a significant driver for smart initiation along with the Internet of Things (IoT)
and fog computing technologies under the background of smart cities. A more trusted
and decentralized database can be built using blockchain technology [36]. Metaverse, as
the latest buzzword, has attracted great attention from both industry and academia. The
flow of data will be beyond the previous scale in the metaverse. The security protection of
this data is a very urgent need. The security and decentralized nature of the blockchain
makes it a perfect fit for people. It has led to the belief that it is the key to the next round of
industrial transformation [37].
7.1.2. Blockchain for Online Trading
In this section, we will introduce some uses of blockchain for online trading. Atomic
swaps, which means the quick and automatic exchange of cryptocurrencies between parties
or groups, can be performed on-chain or off-chain. It can realize peer-to-peer transfer, which
safeguards the privacy of users’ transactions and reduces transaction costs by bypassing the
exchanges. It is an area with a lot of research potential [38]. Data have become an extremely
important asset worth trading. However, traders may encounter problems of a single point
of failure (SPOF), opaque transactions, uncontrollability, untraceability, and issues of data
privacy. Blockchain and smart contracts can be used in automated transactions of data. Data
matching, price negotiation, and reward assigning in data trading will be completed by
smart contracts [39]. In addition to the research findings mentioned above, there have also
been some attempts at using the blockchain to trade offline physical objects. Peer-to-Peer
(P2P) energy trading, which means energy consumers/producers directly trade with each
other. In the past, energy trading was rarely performed on a P2P basis because it was hard
to have a system that could support such large and complex settlements. Nevertheless,
with the help of blockchain, a highly automated, secure, and real-time settlement trading
platform can be implemented [40].
Attempts to reduce centralization through blockchain are being made all the time.
It has brought innovations in various business domains and spawned a new form of
organization—the decentralized autonomous organization (DAO). Steemit is recognized as
one of the earliest blockchain-based online communities and a typical example of a DAO.
It has more than 1 million registered users. The forum model proposed in this paper can
also be considered a DAO after further development [41]. DMarket is a cross-game trading
platform based on blockchain and smart contracts. DMT is the only token that users need
to use while trading via smart contracts. However, the platform is a bit centralized and
only supports games that can offer a trading interface.
7.1.3. Security and Efficiency in Blockchain
Blockchain is widely used in security due to its public and tamper-evident nature.
Nevertheless, it also faces multiple security threats. One of the most classic ones is 51% Vul-
nerability. The 51% attack may occur in PoW-based blockchains if a single miner’s hashing
power accounts for more than 50% of the total hashing power of the entire blockchain. Dou-
ble Spending attacks, which means an attacker uses the same cryptocurrency multiple times
for transactions, and Criminal Smart Contracts, also pose threats to the blockchain [42]. In
the practical application of blockchains, there are still many issues to be solved as how to
integrate the new blockchain-based application with the existing legacy system and the
data loss and breach risk when a blockchain-based application [43].
Correspondingly, several studies have shown that the proper use of blockchain can
maintain user privacy and security. For example, to remap the virtual address to the indi-
vidual’s identity while hiding the user’s reality information, blockchain-based meta-native
communications need to be introduced to meet the need [44]. Entities can find each other
on the blockchain by generating encrypted addresses, which means users from the whole
metaverse can acquire the connection information in a decentralized manner. A hierarchical
blockchain architecture with the main chain and multiple subchains can be introduced
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 17 of 23
to perform decentralized, secure, and privacy-preserving data training on both physical
and virtual spaces. It can help users to build a user-defined privacy-preserving framework
with decentralized, federated learning for industrial metaverses [45]. The efficiency of
blockchain has also been a topic that has captured the attention of researchers. The issue of
efficiency is also a challenge that we cannot avoid if we want to put a blockchain system
into practical use. Bitcoin, for example, was split into two separate blockchains—original
Bitcoin (BTC) and Bitcoin Cash (BCH) in 2017 due to the overcrowding caused by the over-
expansion of users [46]. While the introduction of blockchain can bring a variety of benefits,
such as availability, no single point of failure, confidentiality, and privacy, it also increases
the chances of escalating overall network costs with high energy and resource consump-
tion [47]. Blockchains with different consensus protocols have performance differences
in terms of resource consumption. According to research, Hyperledger Fabric generally
surpasses Ethereum against the four performance metrics, including success rate, average
latency, throughput, and resource consumption, while executing 100 transactions [48].
7.1.4. Improvements on DPoS
There are many more possibilities for improvements to the DPoS system. Some
scholars have improved the election mechanism of DPoS by adding weights to the votes
based on reputation value [49]. Some scholars have improved the consensus algorithm by
adding a dynamic trust mechanism [50]. Some scholars combine DPoS with other fields and
develop a three-stage Stackelberg game to jointly minimize the users’ cost and maximize
the utilities of the master node and the validation nodes [51]. The improved DPoS has good
practicality. For example, it can be against chargeback fraud in e-commerce [52]. These
ideas may be helpful to us in future work.
7.2. Metaverse and The Future
Personal computers, the Internet, and mobile devices have been three major technolog-
ical innovation waves that changed modern society, and the metaverse may be the fourth.
The metaverse is a post-reality universe, a perpetual and persistent multiuser environment
merging physical reality with digital virtuality [1]. In the past, such technology would
have been unthinkable. No matter how high the degree of simulation of the virtual world
is, it will always leave people with a sense of alienation due to the limitations of technical
means. However, with technologies that enable multisensory interactions with virtual
environments, such as virtual reality (VR) and augmented reality (AR), the expressive
and infectious power of the meta-universe is unparalleled by the techniques of the past.
Some scholars have used immersive virtual reality (iVR) and head-mounted display (HMD)
systems to help rehabilitate injured patients [53]. The concept of digital twins, which is
related to the metaverse, has also had a profound impact on areas outside the Internet, such
as industry [54].
The metaverse has shown strong potential in several areas now. The metaverse can be
combined with artificial intelligence to enhance the effectiveness of online education. Some
scholars have envisioned a metaverse in which intelligent NPCs (non-player characters)
are simulated by artificial intelligence techniques to help students learn. NPCs can become
peers and friends that study with the students. When students have problems with lessons,
they can turn to NPC students or teachers for help [55]. The metaverse is also promising in
the medical field. Due to the impact of COVID-19, the existing offline healthcare system has
been affected, and the need for online healthcare has become urgent. The metaverse has
brought a lot of innovation to the current healthcare system. Combined with blockchain
and Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs), the metaverse can be applied to telehealth, supply
chain, payments, secure data sharing, and remote monitoring. Metaverse has a wide
range of applications in clinical care. It allows online immersion in a live simulation
of the operating room environment, assisting surgeons complete procedures remotely.
Combined with artificial intelligence, it can provide more personalized health assistance
to patients. In medical education and training, metaverse technology can give medical
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 18 of 23
students a better practice environment [56]. COVID-19 has also taken a considerable toll on
the hospitality and tourism industry, and metaverse technology also can be used to save
tourism. Improvements in technology and sophistication in the quality of virtual reality
(VR) headsets have made travel in the metaverse as good as offline travel. For example,
Japan-based First Airlines has begun offering virtual flights from Tokyo [57].
Among all these applications, the combination of the metaverse and video games is
the most striking. Metaverse is learning from the experience of the gaming industry. At
present, many metaverses are developed with game engines such as Unreal and Unity [58].
The combination of the metaverse and video games is showing unprecedented appeal.
ROBLOX, a sandbox game platform, was the first metaverse concept game stock to be
listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Its USD 40 billion valuation proved that the value
of the metaverse is recognized [59]. The virtual rewards in the metaverse can even exert an
influence on people’s real lives. Some researchers suggest that tokenized incentivization
in the metaverse can be used to architect people’s choices and lead people to live healthy
lifestyles. The prospect of the game market is immense in the metaverse [60].
Players’ willingness to pay for in-game items has been cultivated over the years. In
MMORPGs (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-playing Games), such as World of Warcraft
(WoW), a mature inter-player economic system has been established [61]. There are even
studios that earn their living by producing in-game items. Players can pay real money to
those studios for in-game items they want. A similar situation will occur in the metaverse.
Since the interaction between players and the game is more realistic in the metaverse,
players are more willing to acknowledge the value of various in-game items. Now in-
game items in some metaverse games are much more useful than before. For example, in
ZEPETO, a metaverse game launched in 2018 by Snow and owned by the company Naver,
users can use in-game currencies, such as coins and gems, to decorate their avatars and
maps for space [62]. Concepts such as metaverse and Gamefi, which is a combination of the
words Game and Finance, meaning a blockchain game that provides financial incentives
for players to earn while they play, are now very prevalent. Many people have already
managed to make a profit from them. CryptoKitties is the first game in which game assets
and collectible items exist as Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) on the blockchain and can be
traded for cryptocurrency. It is a relatively successful experiment in the gamification of
blockchain [63]. Due to the nature of the metaverse, the scale of buying and selling virtual
items in the metaverse is already large and subversive enough. For example, virtual land
in the metaverse can be bought and sold just like in reality. There are 90,601 lands in the
Decentraland metaverse and 166,464 virtual lands in the Sandbox metaverse [64]. The
in-game items trading system designed in this paper can be used in a metaverse context.
The growing demand for buying and selling virtual goods in the metaverse must be a
bright future for our system.
As Table 3 shows, we introduce a chart containing a comparative study of some
representative papers we cited and our work. It can be seen that our work combines the
two domains of metaverse and DPoS while incorporating the virtual economy. In our
future work, we will continue to draw inspiration from related fields to achieve further
results in the exploration of metaverse trading.
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 19 of 23
Table 3. A comparative study of related papers.
Citation Number DPoS Reputation System Metaverse Virtual Economy Incentive Mechanism
[13]   % %  
[16]  % % % %
[21]  % % %  
[33] %  % %  
[44] % %  % %
[45] % %  %  
[50]   % % %
[51]   % %  
DVIT      
8. Conclusions and Future Work
In this work, we studied the problem of virtual item exchange in the metaverse. We
proposed a blockchain-based in-game items trading forum system, combined a DPoS
blockchain with an in-game items trading system, and increased the decentralization and
security of the system. We added many new features to the system, such as in-game item
trading Non-Fungible Token (NFT) and in-game item renting. We designed a user incentive
system based on reputation value to guide users to trade correctly in the system. We believe
that our solution can substantially improve the existing in-game items trading forum
system and can be used in the metaverse for virtual item exchange. In future work, the
fairness and rationality of reputation calculation will be reserved for further consideration,
and more variables, such as coinday and the number of historical transactions, will be taken
into account. Moreover, the economic game theory will also be modularized to facilitate the
completeness of the DVIT. To achieve more decentralization, after completing experiments
with forum-based virtual item trading, we will try to propose a framework where users
can trade directly between consortium-blockchain-based metaverses. We will try to extend
our work from in-game item trading to simulations in an environment that is closer to the
metaverse.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, Z.Y. and W.L.; methodology, W.L.; formal analysis, C.D.;
investigation, L.L.; data curation, W.L.; writing—original draft preparation, W.L.; writing—review
and editing, Z.Y. and W.L.; project administration, X.L. All authors have read and agreed to the
published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research is partially supported by FDCT under its General R&D Subsidy Pro-
gram Fund (Grant No. 0038/2022/A), Macau, and partially supported by MOST-FDCT Projects
(0058/2019/AMJ,2019YFE0110300) (Research and Application of Cooperative Multi-Agent Platform
for Zhuhai-Macao Manufacturing Service).
Data Availability Statement: The simulations of this paper can be accessed at https://github.com/
LanWusong/DVIT-simulations (accessed on 8 January 2023).
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
https://github.com/LanWusong/DVIT-simulations
https://github.com/LanWusong/DVIT-simulations
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 20 of 23
Nomenclature
MK master key
PK public key
SP security parameter
AM attributes of the ADM
ki secret key of user i
kpi public key of user i
i identification of the User
irep actual reputation value of user i
irep0 fixed reputation value of user i
irepa reputation value user i got in the last 0–10 epochs
irepb reputation value user i got in the last 10–20 epochs
w expired weight
li0 initial voting result of user i in dispute adjudication
li final result of user i’s vote in dispute adjudication
λ user’s vote weight in dispute adjudication
L the final decision in dispute adjudication
Eperiod each 5 epochs is a Period
Θk the percentage of income in Periodk
Msell record of item selling on the blockchain
Msrent record of item renting on the blockchain
sigk signature of user k
Candidate[ ] list of candidates in election process
Witness[ ] list of witnesses
X number of witnesses
n users’ node id on the blockchain
in the information about the in-game items
Use seller
Ubu buyer
Ule lessee
Ulo lessor
Dep deposit
Ren rent
timestamp timestamp of the blocks
Uis issuer of iNFT
Ipri in-game item price
Iit in-game item
References
1. Mystakidis, S. Metaverse. Encyclopedia 2022, 2, 486–497. [CrossRef]
2. Matthews, J. Ready Player One (Movie Review). 2018. Available online: https://digitalcollections.dordt.edu/faculty_work/886/
(accessed on 1 October 2022).
3. Salvador, R. Facebook Changes Company Name to Meta. Available online: https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/28/facebook-
changes-company-name-to-meta.html/ (accessed on 10 August 2022).
4. Clement, J. When Do You Think the Metaverse Will Start Booming? Available online: https://www.statista.com/statistics/1302
240/metaverse-business-boom/ (accessed on 10 August 2022).
5. Ronit, G.; Nisha, S.; Sophia, B.; Kaiwan, M.; Ronak., S.S.; Puneet, S. Metaverse and Money. Available online: https://www.
citivelocity.com/citigps/metaverse-and-money/ (accessed on 1 October 2022).
6. Jansen, S. How Cross-Chain Games Are Giving Users the First Look at a Metaverse. Available online: https://cointelegraph.
com/news/how-cross-chain-games-are-giving-users-the-first-look-at-a-metaverse (accessed on 25 December 2022).
7. Radahn, C. All About the Open Metaverse Alliance (OMA3). Available online: https://www.altcoinbuzz.io/metaverse/all-
about-the-open-metaverse-alliance-oma3/ (accessed on 25 December 2022).
8. Ravenscraft, E. What, Exactly, Is the Metaverse Standards Forum Creating? Available online: https://www.wired.com/story/
metaverse-standards-forum-explained/ (accessed on 25 December 2022).
9. Balicer, R.D. Modeling infectious diseases dissemination through online role-playing games. Epidemiology 2007, 18, 260–261.
[CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/encyclopedia2010031
https://digitalcollections.dordt.edu/faculty_work/886/
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/28/facebook-changes-company-name-to-meta.html/
https://www.cnbc.com/2021/10/28/facebook-changes-company-name-to-meta.html/
https://www.statista.com/statistics/1302240/metaverse-business-boom/
https://www.statista.com/statistics/1302240/metaverse-business-boom/
https://www.citivelocity.com/citigps/metaverse-and-money/
https://www.citivelocity.com/citigps/metaverse-and-money/
https://cointelegraph.com/news/ how-cross-chain-games-are-giving-users-the-first-look-at-a-metaverse
https://cointelegraph.com/news/ how-cross-chain-games-are-giving-users-the-first-look-at-a-metaverse
https://www.altcoinbuzz. io/metaverse/all-about-the-open-metaverse-alliance-oma3/
https://www.altcoinbuzz. io/metaverse/all-about-the-open-metaverse-alliance-oma3/
https://www.wired.com/story/metaverse-standards-forum-explained/
https://www.wired.com/story/metaverse-standards-forum-explained/
http://dx.doi.org/10.1097/01.ede.0000254692.80550.60
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 21 of 23
10. Salter, A.W.; Stein, S. Endogenous currency formation in an online environment: The case of Diablo II. Rev. Austrian Econ. 2016,
29, 53–66. [CrossRef]
11. De Filippi, P.; Mannan, M.; Reijers, W. Blockchain as a confidence machine: The problem of trust & challenges of governance.
Technol. Soc. 2020, 62, 101284.
12. Monrat, A.A.; Schelén, O.; Andersson, K. A Survey of Blockchain From the Perspectives of Applications, Challenges, and
Opportunities. IEEE Access 2019, 7, 117134–117151. [CrossRef]
13. Wei, Y.; Liang, L.; Zhou, B.; Feng, X. A Modified Blockchain DPoS Consensus Algorithm Based on Anomaly Detection and
Reward-Punishment. In Proceedings of the 2021 13th International Conference on Communication Software and Networks
(ICCSN), Chongqing, China, 4–7 June 2021; pp. 283–288.
14. Saad, S.M.S.; Radzi, R.Z.R.M.; Othman, S.H. Analysis of the Blockchain Consensus Algorithm Between Proof of Stake and
DelegatComparativeed Proof of Stake. In Proceedings of the 2021 International Conference on Data Science and Its Applications
(ICoDSA), Virtual, 6–7 October 2021; pp. 175–180.
15. Staff, C. What Are Proof of Stake and Delegated Proof of Stake? Available online: https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/proof-
of-stake-delegated-pos-dpos (accessed on 13 August 2022).
16. Chen, S.; Xie, M.; Liu, J.; Zhang, Y. Improvement of the DPoS Consensus Mechanism in Blockchain Based on PLTS. In Proceedings
of the 7th IEEE International Conference on Big Data Security on Cloud, IEEE International Conference on High Performance and
Smart Computing, and IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Data and Security, BigDataSecurity/HPSC/IDS 2021, New
York, NY, USA, 15–17 May 2021; pp. 32–37.
17. Nguyen, B.M.; Nguyen, T.; Nguyen, T.; Do, B. MPoC—A Metaheuristic Proof of Criteria Consensus Protocol for Blockchain
Network. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency, ICBC 2021, Sydney, Australia,
3–6 May 2021; pp. 1–8.
18. Dhillon, V.; Metcalf, D.; Hooper, M. Recent developments in blockchain. In Blockchain Enabled Applications; Apress: Berkeley, CA,
USA, 2017; pp. 151–181.
19. Shin, D.D. Blockchain: The emerging technology of digital trust. Telemat. Inform. 2019, 45, 101278. [CrossRef]
20. Sun, Y.; Xue, R.; Zhang, R.; Su, Q.; Gao, S. RTChain: A Reputation System with Transaction and Consensus Incentives for
E-commerce Blockchain. ACM Trans. Internet Technol. 2021, 21, 15:1–15:24. [CrossRef]
21. Wang, L.; Xu, P.; Su, W.; Li, Y.; Chen, X. Research on Improvement of Blockchain DPOS Consensus Mechanism Based on HK
Clustering. In Proceedings of the 2021 China Automation Congress (CAC), Beijing, China, 22–24 October 2021; pp. 1167–1172.
22. Hu, Q.; Yan, B.; Han, Y.; Yu, J. An improved delegated proof of stake consensus algorithm. Procedia Comput. Sci. 2021, 187, 341–346.
[CrossRef]
23. Johari, R.; Kumar, V.; Gupta, K.; Vidyarthi, D.P. BLOSOM: BLOckchain technology for Security of Medical records. ICT Express
2022, 8, 56–60. [CrossRef]
24. Merrad, Y.; Habaebi, M.H.; Elsheikh, E.A.A.; Suliman, F.E.M.; Islam, M.R.; Gunawan, T.S.; Mesri, M. Blockchain: Consensus
Algorithm Key Performance Indicators, Trade-Offs, Current Trends, Common Drawbacks, and Novel Solution Proposals.
Mathematics 2022, 10, 2754. [CrossRef]
25. Zhu, H.; Guo, Y.; Zhang, L. An improved convolution Merkle tree-based blockchain electronic medical record secure storage
scheme. J. Inf. Secur. Appl. 2021, 61, 102952. [CrossRef]
26. Cho, S.; Park, S.Y.; Lee, S.R. Blockchain consensus rule based dynamic blind voting for non-dependency transaction. Int. J. Grid
Distrib. Comput. 2017, 10, 93–106. [CrossRef]
27. Mitra, D.; Tauz, L.; Dolecek, L. Concentrated stopping set design for coded Merkle tree: Improving security against data
availability attacks in blockchain systems. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE Information Theory Workshop (ITW), Riva del Garda,
Italy, 11–15 April 2021; pp. 1–5.
28. Hellenbrand, A. Asynchronous and Decentral Group Management in Messengers with Delegated Proof of Stake. In SKILL
2020-Studierendenkonferenz Informatik; Gesellschaft für Informatik e.V.: Bonn, Germany, 2020.
29. Wang, T.; Guo, J.; Ai, S.; Cao, J. RBT: A distributed reputation system for blockchain-based peer-to-peer energy trading with
fairness consideration. Appl. Energy 2021, 295, 117056. [CrossRef]
30. Chen, Y.; Liu, F. Research on improvement of DPoS consensus mechanism in collaborative governance of network public opinion.
Peer-to-Peer Netw. Appl. 2022, 15, 1849–1861. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
31. Wang, Z.; Xiong, R.; Jin, J.; Liang, C. AirBC: A Lightweight Reputation-based Blockchain Scheme for Resource-constrained
UANET. In Proceedings of the 25th IEEE International Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work in Design, CSCWD
2022, Hangzhou, China, 4–6 May 2022; pp. 1378–1383.
32. Putra, G.D.; Kang, C.; Kanhere, S.S.; Hong, J.W. DeTRM: Decentralised Trust and Reputation Management for Blockchain-based
Supply Chains. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Blockchain and Cryptocurrency, ICBC 2022, Shanghai,
China, 2–5 May 2022; pp. 1–5.
33. Battah, A.; Iraqi, Y.; Damiani, E. A Trust and Reputation System for IoT Service Interactions. IEEE Trans. Netw. Serv. Manag. 2022,
19, 2987–3005. [CrossRef]
34. Wang, P.; Pan, B.; Tao, Q.; Yang, C.; Luo, S. Distributed Storage and Traceability System for Aviation Equipment Biographies
Based on Consortium Blockchain. In Proceedings of the 2022 4th International Conference on Advances in Computer Technology,
Information Science and Communications (CTISC), Suzhou, China, 22–24 April 2022; pp. 1–5.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11138-014-0289-1
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2936094
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/proof-of-stake-delegated-pos-dpos
https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/proof-of-stake-delegated-pos-dpos
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.tele.2019.101278
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/3430502
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2021.04.109
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.icte.2021.06.002
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/math10152754
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2021.102952
http://dx.doi.org/10.14257/ijgdc.2017.10.12.09
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2021.117056
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12083-022-01320-9
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35528864
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TNSM.2022.3179875
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 22 of 23
35. Böhmecke-Schwafert, M.; Wehinger, M.; Teigland, R. Blockchain for the circular economy: Theorizing blockchain’s role in the
transition to a circular economy through an empirical investigation. Bus. Strategy Environ. 2022, 31, 3786–3801. [CrossRef]
36. Kamruzzaman, M.; Yan, B.; Sarker, M.N.I.; Alruwaili, O.; Wu, M.; Alrashdi, I. Blockchain and Fog Computing in IoT-Driven
Healthcare Services for Smart Cities. J. Healthc. Eng. 2022, 2022, 9957888. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
37. Yang, Q.; Zhao, Y.; Huang, H.; Xiong, Z.; Kang, J.; Zheng, Z. Fusing Blockchain and AI with Metaverse: A Survey. IEEE Open J.
Comput. Soc. 2022, 3, 122–136. [CrossRef]
38. Mohanty, D.; Anand, D.; Aljahdali, H.M.; Villar, S.G. Blockchain Interoperability: Towards a Sustainable Payment System.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 913. [CrossRef]
39. Hu, D.; Li, Y.; Pan, L.; Li, M.; Zheng, S. A blockchain-based trading system for big data. Comput. Netw. 2021, 191, 107994.
[CrossRef]
40. Esmat, A.; de Vos, M.; Ghiassi-Farrokhfal, Y.; Palensky, P.; Epema, D. A novel decentralized platform for peer-to-peer energy
trading market with blockchain technology. Appl. Energy 2021, 282, 116123. [CrossRef]
41. Liu, Z.; Li, Y.; Min, Q.; Chang, M. User incentive mechanism in blockchain-based online community: An empirical study of
steemit. Inf. Manag. 2022, 59, 103596. [CrossRef]
42. Li, X.; Jiang, P.; Chen, T.; Luo, X.; Wen, Q. A survey on the security of blockchain systems. Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 2020,
107, 841–853. [CrossRef]
43. Islam, M.R.; Rahman, M.M.; Mahmud, M.; Rahman, M.A.; Mohamad, M.H.S. A Review on Blockchain Security Issues and
Challenges. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE 12th Control and System Graduate Research Colloquium (ICSGRC), Shah Alam,
Malaysia, 7 August 2021; pp. 227–232.
44. Xu, H.; Li, Z.; Li, Z.; Zhang, X.; Sun, Y.; Zhang, L. Metaverse Native Communication: A Blockchain and Spectrum Prospective. In
Proceedings of the 2022 IEEE International Conference on Communications Workshops, ICC Workshops 2022, Seoul, Republic of
Korea, 16–20 May 2022; pp. 7–12.
45. Kang, J.; Ye, D.; Nie, J.; Xiao, J.; Deng, X.; Wang, S.; Xiong, Z.; Yu, R.; Niyato, D. Blockchain-based Federated Learning for
Industrial Metaverses: Incentive Scheme with Optimal AoI. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Blockchain,
Blockchain 2022, Espoo, Finland, 22–25 August 2022; pp. 71–78.
46. Jiang, S.; Li, Y.; Wang, S.; Zhao, L. Blockchain competition: The tradeoff between platform stability and efficiency. Eur. J. Oper.
Res. 2022, 296, 1084–1097. [CrossRef]
47. Shahzad, I.; Maqbool, A.; Rana, T.; Mirza, A.; Khan, W.Z.; Kim, S.W.; Zikria, Y.B.; Din, S. Blockchain-based green big data
visualization: BGbV. Complex Intell. Syst. 2022, 8, 3707–3718. [CrossRef]
48. Dabbagh, M.; Kakavand, M.; Tahir, M.; Amphawan, A. Performance Analysis of Blockchain Platforms: Empirical Evaluation of
Hyperledger Fabric and Ethereum. In Proceedings of the 2020 IEEE 2nd International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in
Engineering and Technology (IICAIET), Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia, 26–27 September 2020; pp. 1–6. [CrossRef]
49. You, L.; Wang, Z.; Hu, G.; Cao, C. An Improved Model on the Vague Sets-Based DPoS’s Voting Phase in Blockchain. IACR Cryptol.
ePrint Arch. 2022, 391.
50. Sun, Y.; Yan, B.; Yao, Y.; Yu, J. DT-DPoS: A delegated proof of stake consensus algorithm with dynamic trust. Procedia Comput. Sci.
2021, 187, 371–376. [CrossRef]
51. Wang, D.; Jia, Y.; Liang, L.; Dong, M.; Ota, K. A Game for Task Offloading in Reputation-Based Consortium Blockchain Networks.
IEEE Wirel. Commun. Lett. 2022, 11, 1508–1512. [CrossRef]
52. Liu, D.; Lee, J.H. CFLedger: Preventing chargeback fraud with blockchain. ICT Express 2021, 8, 352–356. [CrossRef]
53. Elor, A.; Powell, M.; Mahmoodi, E.; Teodorescu, M.; Kurniawan, S. Gaming Beyond the Novelty Effect of Immersive Virtual
Reality for Physical Rehabilitation. IEEE Trans. Games 2022, 14, 107–115. [CrossRef]
54. Jiang, Y.; Yin, S.; Li, K.; Luo, H.; Kaynak, O. Industrial applications of digital twins. Philos. Trans. R. Soc. A 2021, 379, 20200360.
[CrossRef] [PubMed]
55. Hwang, G.J.; Chien, S.Y. Definition, roles, and potential research issues of the metaverse in education: An artificial intelligence
perspective. Comput. Educ. Artif. Intell. 2022, 3, 100082. [CrossRef]
56. Thomason, J. MetaHealth-How will the Metaverse Change Health Care? J. Metaverse 2021, 1, 13–16.
57. Gursoy, D.; Malodia, S.; Dhir, A. The metaverse in the hospitality and tourism industry: An overview of current trends and future
research directions. J. Hosp. Mark. Manag. 2022, 31, 527–534. [CrossRef]
58. Chia, A. The metaverse, but not the way you think: Game engines and automation beyond game development. Crit. Stud. Media
Commun. 2022, 39, 191–200. [CrossRef]
59. Huang, J.; Sun, P.; Zhang, W. Analysis of the Future Prospects for the Metaverse. In Proceedings of the 2022 7th International
Conference on Financial Innovation and Economic Development (ICFIED 2022), Zhuhai, China, 21–23 January 2022; pp. 1899–1904.
60. Thomason, J. Metaverse, Token Economies, and Chronic Diseases. Glob. Health J. 2022, 1, 13–16.
61. Linnainmaa, H. Virtual economy design in MMORPGs. Bachelor’s Thesis, Aalto University, Espoo, Finland, 2021.
62. Han, J.; Heo, J.; You, E. Analysis of metaverse platform as a new play culture: Focusing on roblox and zepeto. In Proceedings
of the 2nd International Conference on Human-Centered Artificial Intelligence (Computing4Human 2021), CEUR Workshop
Proceedings, Da Nang, Vietnam, 28–29 October 2021.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/bse.3032
http://dx.doi.org/10.1155/2022/9957888
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35126961
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/OJCS.2022.3188249
http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/su14020913
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.comnet.2021.107994
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.apenergy.2020.116123
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2022.103596
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2017.08.020
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2021.05.031
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s40747-021-00466-y
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IICAIET49801.2020.9257811
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2021.04.113
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/LWC.2022.3177431
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.icte.2021.06.001
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TG.2021.3069445
http://dx.doi.org/10.1098/rsta.2020.0360
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/34398651
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.caeai.2022.100082
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/19368623.2022.2072504
http://dx.doi.org/10.1080/15295036.2022.2080850
Mathematics 2023, 11, 429 23 of 23
63. Serada, A. Vintage CryptoKitties and the Quest for Authenticity. In Proceedings of the 2021 IEEE Conference on Games (CoG),
Copenhagen, Denmark, 17–20 August 2021; pp. 1–10.
64. Sonmezer, S.; Çelik, G.G. How returns of metaverse tokens are interrelated? Int. J. Soc. Sci. 2022, 8, 213–223. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://dx.doi.org/10.20319/pijss.2022.81.213223
	Introduction
	Preliminaries
	Blockchain Consensus Algorithms
	Reputation Value System
	Merkle Tree
	In-Game Item-Trading Platform
	Proposed Model
	System Model
	Threaten Model
	System Definitions
	Goals of the Proposed System
	Security
	Transparency
	Decentralization
	Detailed DVIT
	Calculation of Reputation Value
	Assessment of Reputation State
	Witnesses Election
	Forum Functions
	Simulation and Discussion
	Simulation of the New Reputation Value Mechanism
	Simulation of the New Handling Fee Mechanism
	Performance Analysis
	Security
	Effectiveness
	Scalability
	Related Work
	Blockchain Technology
	Applications of Blockchain Technology
	Blockchain for Online Trading
	Security and Efficiency in Blockchain
	Improvements on DPoS
	Metaverse and The Future
	Conclusions and Future Work
	References