Multi-Party Evolutionary Game Analysis of Accounts Receivable Financing under the Application of Central Bank Digital Currency
Citation: Zhang, Q.; Yang, D.; Qin, J.
Multi-Party Evolutionary Game
Analysis of Accounts Receivable
Financing under the Application of
Central Bank Digital Currency. J.
Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res.
2023, 18, 394–415. https://doi.org/
10.3390/jtaer18010021
Academic Editor: Jani Merikivi
Received: 20 October 2022
Revised: 27 December 2022
Accepted: 13 February 2023
Published: 20 February 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Article
Multi-Party Evolutionary Game Analysis of Accounts
Receivable Financing under the Application of Central Bank
Digital Currency
Qinglei Zhang 1, Dihong Yang 2,* and Jiyun Qin 1
1 Intelligent Manufacturing Technology & System, China (Shanghai) Institute of FTZ Supply Chain,
Shanghai 200120, China
2 Institute of Logistics Science and Engineering, Shanghai Maritime University, Shanghai 200120, China
* Correspondence: 202030510246@stu.shmtu.edu.cn or y15350270206@163.com; Tel.: +86-153-5027-0206
Abstract: Accounts receivable financing is one of the most prominent financing approaches in supply
chain finance; nevertheless, in the actual financing process, financial institutions and SMEs have
credit risk and information asymmetry risk, which leads to frequent nonpayment and collaboration
fraudulent loans. This paper introduces central bank digital currency into traditional accounts
receivable financing and solves the credit risk and information asymmetry risk using two technologies
of central bank digital currency: digital technology and blockchain technology; digital technology
enables the supervision of capital flow, and blockchain technology enables for access to logistics
and information flow. In the context of using central bank digital currency technology, this paper
builds an evolutionary game model of whether financial institutions use central bank digital currency
and whether SMEs repay the loan, compares the evolutionary stabilization strategies of financial
institutions and SMEs, calculates and analyzes the model’s impact, investigates changes in the
decision-making and evolutionary paths of both parties, and then conducts numerical simulation
analysis using Matlab and Python to verify the model’s reliability further. According to the results,
adding central bank digital currency to the traditional accounts receivable financing model can reduce
the loan risk of financial institutions, increase the credibility of accounts receivable financing, expedite
the implementation of accounts receivable financing, and alleviate the financing concerns of SMEs.
Keywords: supply chain finance; accounts receivable financing; central bank digital currency
1. Introduction
In recent years, pandemic fluctuations, financial market instability, supply chain
disruptions, and shrinking global trade have seriously impacted the development of the
world economy, particularly the survival and growth of SMEs, which play an irreplaceable
and massive role in increasing jobs, improving people’s living standards, and promoting
economic development [1]. Thus, there is an urgent need to find effective ways to address
the predicament of SMEs. Accounts receivable financing is one of the more mature financing
approaches in existing supply chain finance, primarily involving core enterprises, SMEs,
and financial institutions. The three supply chain finance entities establish a collaborative
framework to provide financial services with lower interest rates and flexible payment
terms, assisting SMEs in obtaining loans [2]. It can not only effectively relieve the capital
pressures of SMEs but also keep improving the trade connection between supply chain
enterprises, realize the smooth flow of logistics, capital, and information between upstream
and downstream supply chain enterprises, and promote the overall development of the
supply chain [3]. However, the three entities do not achieve a win-win-win scenario in the
specific financing process due to credit risks and information asymmetry risks among them,
especially accounts receivable financing. As a result of these risks, financial institutions
increase SMEs’ financing threshold. Financial institutions do not have the transaction
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, 394–415. https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer18010021 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer
https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer18010021
https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer18010021
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer
https://www.mdpi.com
https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer18010021
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/jtaer18010021?type=check_update&version=1
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 395
information between core enterprises and SMEs for accounts receivable financing under
the traditional supply chain finance platform. Therefore, credit given to SMEs still has
to rely on core enterprises to complete. Financial institutions first extend credit to core
enterprises, then core enterprises extend credit to SMEs [4]. Due to the lack of property
evidence and credit proof, financial institutions classify SMEs as having poor credit ratings,
even if core enterprises give credit. Additional issues will arise due to the slow access to
credit information, high credit costs, and fraudulent loans and subsidies [5]. Before making
loans to SMEs, financial institutions must pay specified credit costs to evaluate SMEs’ credit
standing and reduce financial risks.
The risks of accounts receivable financing have become more potentially avoidable
in recent years owing to blockchain technology. Blockchain technology’s attributes, such
as distributed ledger, decentralization, traceability, tamper-evident, and smart contracts,
among others, make it possible to effectively lower the informational barrier between SMEs
and financial institutions [6]. Distributed ledger technology has been shown to solve the
information asymmetry risk, reduce credit collection costs, assist financial institutions in
monitoring, and improve clearing and settlement using smart contracts [7]. Research on
blockchain technology mainly focuses on three areas: conceptual innovation, mechanism
design, and technological optimization in the context of the present supply chain finance
system. Whether for analysis within the more general framework of supply chain finance or
the specific study of accounts receivable financing, these sectors lack obvious application en-
try points and fail to adequately illustrate their worth; consequently, this paper introduces
central bank digital currency inspired by blockchain technology to the accounts receivable
finance model in the traditional supply chain finance. Compared to existing research, an in-
novation and a change would be using central bank digital currency for accounts receivable
financing. It possesses some characteristics of blockchain technology and can successfully
address the credit risk and information asymmetry risk between financial institutions and
SMEs, thereby reducing the regulatory burden on financial institutions and limiting SMEs’
non-repayment behavior and joint fraudulent lending behavior. The general blockchain
technology is the generalized blockchain technology, while the blockchain technology used
by the central bank digital currency is the narrow blockchain technology, which the central
bank has optimized; in addition, central bank digital currency also has digital character-
istics compared to traditional paper currency, it also maintains its status as a sovereign
credit currency, and in specific transactions, it acts as a cryptocurrency, an algorithm-based
currency, or a smart currency, all of which are compatible with the fundamental principles
of accounts receivable finance. Therefore, credit risk and information asymmetric risk in
accounts receivable finance may be eliminated using central bank digital currency.
The following three aspects reflect the primary contributions of this paper: First,
this paper highlights the basic framework for integrating central bank digital currency
technology into the established supply chain financing model to further the knowledge base
on blockchain technology’s use in supply chain financing. Second, focusing on using digital
currency technology and blockchain technology in accounts receivable financing, this
article explains how central bank digital currency may control credit risk and information
asymmetry risk using these technologies. Third, this paper analyzes the specific factors
influencing the accounts receivable financing model, explores the dynamic behavior of
financial institutions and SMEs in the model using evolutionary game theory, and employs
Matlab and Python simulations to test the correctness of the findings.
The rest of the essay is structured as follows: in Section 2, the research on supply
chain finance, central bank digital currency, and related literature addressing supply chain
risks is reviewed; in Section 3, a theoretical model for the use of central bank digital
currency technologies in accounts receivable financing is presented; in Section 4, the model
formulation and game analysis for SMEs and financial institutions are established; in
Section 5, numerical analysis is performed; and in Section 6, conclusions are drawn.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 396
2. Literature Review
This paper focused on using central bank digital currency in the “M + 1 + N” supply
chain finance platform’s accounts receivable financing mode to address credit risk and
information asymmetry risk. It also analyzed the effect evolution of financial institutions
and SMEs as the key variables. Consequently, The literature pertinent to this paper falls
under two subcategories: supply chain finance and central bank digital currency.
2.1. Supply Chain Finance
Supply chain financing differs from traditional commercial finance, which does not
consider the supply chain as an important factor [8]. Financial institutions analyze indi-
vidual enterprise’s credit ratings by considering factors such as company size, economic
status, business performance, existing collateral, and social trust and make loans of varying
amounts without considering the supply chain. Companies with ambiguous information
may have issues when applying for loans from financial institutions and have incredible
difficulty when financial institutions investigate them. SMEs may go bankrupt due to this
situation, endangering the integrity of present global production chains in the event of
a catastrophic global crisis [9]. The emergence of supply chain finance has changed the
conventional logic of financial institutions assessing loans. It now considers the supply
chain instead of only analyzing individual SMEs. Financial institutions provide financial
services by evaluating transaction information between core enterprises and SMEs and
relying on the credit ratings of core enterprises [10]. As a result, supply chain finance
aims to integrate logistics, information flow, and capital flow throughout the supply chain
and assist core enterprises, SMEs, and financial institutions in reducing costs and increas-
ing value via planning, direction, and management. Due to credit risk and information
asymmetric risk that may quickly occur since financial institutions do not have access to
transaction data between businesses in the supply chain, financial institutions struggle to
decide whether financing for SMEs is in their best interests. How to solve the credit risk
and information asymmetry risk in supply chain finance directly affects whether SMEs
can complete financing. For example, Accounts receivable financing will go smoothly if
financial institutions can obtain accurate transaction information from the supply chain, in-
cluding logistics, information flow, and capital flow, which may assist in assessing financing
risk. Zhou et al. suggested that a field programmable gate array and an internet of things
solution for logistics information cooperation enhance the veracity of logistics information
for supply chain management [11]. Zhang et al. employed a multimodal learning technique
to combine data from several supply chain sources and then used the cascaded vectors
produced by data fusion as the input to a feedforward neural network to estimate the credit
risk of SMEs [12]. Additionally, Kang et al. developed a supply chain financing credit
risk assessment index selection method for SMEs using the 5C approach [13]. Some other
scholars improved the support vector machine (FA-SVM) with the firefly algorithm and
utilized it to evaluate supply chain finance with various information options [14]. There is
still a significant issue: while verifying information flow and logistics is relatively simple,
it is relatively challenging to verify capital flow, and verification costs are relatively high.
This is true even though scholars are constantly proposing new methods to improve supply
chain management, increase the authenticity of supply chain information, and decrease
financial risk.
2.2. Central Bank Digital Currency
Cryptographic digital currencies such as Bitcoin, Ether, Dogecoin, and Litecoin have
had a meteoric rise in popularity over the past five years due to their extraordinarily
high investment value. It all started with Bitcoin, which emerged as the result of Satoshi
Nakamoto’s 2008 paper “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System,” which describes
the blockchain technology and the working system of Bitcoin. Policymakers, regulators,
and academics quickly became interested in Bitcoin and blockchain technology. However,
some countries have banned the circulation and trading of cryptographic digital currencies,
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 397
such as China, the UK, Singapore, and Turkey, due to their highly speculative nature, high
risk, limited quantity, and lack of regulation. Nevertheless, as a replacement for current
paper currencies and in reaction to decentralized cryptographic digital currencies, many
nations around the world have declared the formation of centralized digital currencies
based on national sovereignty, commonly known as central bank digital currencies [15].
Central bank digital currency is a recent technical development, although its concept is
distinct from that of digital currency, virtual currency, and electronic currency. It is a new
form of currency that is fundamentally the same as traditional paper money; it is still a
central bank liability to the public whose value is backed by sovereign credit. It is issued by
the nation’s central bank using particular encryption technology. It has the same intrinsic
value as traditional paper currency, including a measure of value, circulation, storage,
and world currency. Central bank digital currency is distinct from Bitcoin in that it lacks
Bitcoin’s “Decentralization” feature, making it subject to financial regulation [16].
Generalized blockchain technology is described as a decentralized distributed ledger
system with qualities like traceability, invariance, anonymity, transparency, and security.
It accomplishes decentralization through the use of smart contracts and encryption [17].
Incompatible with central bank digital currency’s concept, function, and placement, gener-
alized blockchain technology cannot be used to create central bank digital currency directly
from paper currency. For example, While central bank is the most important nodes in
central bank digital currency system, generalized blockchain technology has no centralized
nodes. As a result, existing central bank digital currencies tend to be based on a limited
amount of blockchain technology—narrow blockchain technology. Narrow blockchain
technology usually does not contain decentralized features, and each central bank will
optimize it so that the issued central bank digital currency includes one or some parts of
the comprehensive blockchain technology. For example, The Bank of England and Univer-
sity College London have invented a cryptocurrency—RSCoin. With RSCoin, the central
bank is able to keep complete control over the money supply, while double spending is
prevented via a dispersed system of authority. It ensures the centralization of monetary
policy while maintaining high levels of transparency and auditability, and it illustrates
both theoretically and empirically the advantages of moderate centralization [18]. Project
Ubin, a central bank digital currency launched by the Monetary Authority of Singapore,
aims to investigate the use of blockchain to clear and settle payments and securities. Five
phases have been completed: In the first phase, R3, a distributed ledger technology com-
pany, has partnered with financial institutions to design a distributed ledger technology
that best fits the settlement system and details the design principles; In the second phase,
they developed software prototypes of three different models for interbank payments
and settlements with liquidity savings mechanisms; In the third phase, together with the
Singapore Exchange, MAS created delivery and payment capabilities for settling tokenized
assets on various blockchain platforms; In the fourth phase, they conducted cross-border
settlement payment experiments; In the fifth phase, they explored the development of
multi-currency payment models to enable collaboration across a broad ecosystem [19]. In
contrast to the decentralization that the initial cryptocurrency promised, China’s central
bank digital currency, the digital yuan, is centralized because the government controls the
blockchain-distributed ledger of the digital yuan. This system enables the economic sys-
tem [20]. Additionally, many central banks, including Lionrock of the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority, are working to create a central bank digital currency based on distributed ledger
technology and blockchain technology [21]. Nonetheless, it is a real-world application
of blockchain technology and retains some characteristics, including distributed ledger
technology, an asymmetric encryption algorithm, and smart contracts. In the field of supply
chain finance, Fegatelli et al. examine and elucidate the conditions for the large-scale intro-
duction of the digital euro without leading to bank disintermediation or a credit crunch.
The two main points are that the central bank must regulate the total volume and user
costs of CBDC in the financial markets and that it must continue to make loans easier to
get and to provide commercial banks with enough sources of finance [22]. Compared with
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 398
central bank digital currency, blockchain technology has more research achievements in
supply chain finance. Chang et al. investigated distributed ledger technology and smart
contracts to allow a decentralized business process, reorganize the supply chain financing
framework, and boost the multilateral cooperation network [23]. Guo et al. also proposed
an information management framework based on blockchain and IoT to coordinate and
integrate information flow, logistics, and capital flow in the supply chain using distributed
ledger technology to improve information transparency in the process and address infor-
mation asymmetry in transactions [24]. Saberi et al. discovered that blockchain technology
creates a highly trusted transaction environment for core enterprises, SMEs, and banks to
reach mutual trust mechanisms and consensus in the supply chain. At the same time, the
decentralized advantage of distributed ledgers can weaken the reliance on the credit guar-
antor endorsement of core enterprises [25]. According to research, blockchain technology
has many advantages, such as rebuilding the supply chain finance framework, sharing
logistics, information flow, and capital flow, developing a new model of core enterprise
credit transmission, and overcoming the traditional supply chain finance model’s lack of
trust. By offering additional transaction transparency and a single fact to all supply chain
network members, it can also reduce uncertainty, insecurity, and ambiguity in transactions.
2.3. Contribution to the Literature
According to the published research, firstly, supply chain finance may assist SMEs
and financial institutions, but it has risks. For example, accounts receivable financing
entails credit risk and information asymmetry risk. Only a small portion of risk control
research begins with the premise that the topic is boundedly rational and uses evolutionary
game theory. The majority of risk control research assumes that the subject is entirely
reasonable. Secondly, most studies on using blockchain technology to reduce financial
risks in the supply chain focus on qualitative analysis and technical design, including
conceptual innovation, mechanism design, and technological optimization, while only a
few examine using blockchain technology from a quantitative angle. Finally, there is less
research on using central bank digital currency for supply chain financing. Central bank
digital currency introduced in this paper is applied to the wholesale system, while the
application of central bank digital currency to retail ecosystems will not be explored. The
present study then considers applying central bank digital currency and evolutionary game
theory to the accounts receivable financing model of supply chain finance, studying the
strategic choices of financial institutions and SMEs under various factors and analyzing the
impact of various factors on both parties’ strategy decisions.
3. Accounts Receivable Financing Issues
3.1. Accounts Receivable Financing
The traditional supply chain finance platform has undergone three changes. Initially,
it was the “1 + N” model, where “1” refers to the core enterprise and “N” refers to core
enterprise’s upstream and downstream suppliers and distributors. The second evolution is
to lessen the danger of SMEs manipulating or tampering with transaction information by
adding “L” (logistics) to the original “1 + N” model, resulting in the “1 + N + L” model.
Logistics acts as an intermediary between SMEs and financial institutions to improve
the authenticity of supply chain transactions. Financial institutions rely on the credit
and guarantee of core enterprises to complete financing through actual supply chain
transactions involving SMEs. With the fast growth of information technology such as big
data, cloud computing, and the internet of things in recent years, supply chain finance
has entered the third evolution, producing a new “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial
platform [26]. “M” is financial institutions, such as banks, core enterprises, and fintech
companies, “N” is the financing body of enterprises, including core enterprises and SMEs,
and “1” is a professional supply chain financial platform. Supply chain financial platforms
are classified into three types: core enterprise-led, fintech company-led, and bank-led [27].
The “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform depends on the core enterprises’ strong
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 399
business credit. It integrates the supply chain network’s logistics, information flow, and
capital flow through the core enterprises to subtly raise the level of trust among the
upstream and downstream SMEs [28]. Financial institutions primarily provide accounts
receivable financing, future cargo right financing mode, warehouse financing, and other
loan modes to SMEs on the supply chain financial service platform. Figure 1 below shows
the "M+1+N" supply chain finance platform.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 6 
 
 
cloud computing, and the internet of things in recent years, supply chain finance has en-
tered the third evolution, producing a new “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform 
[26]. “M” is financial institutions, such as banks, core enterprises, and fintech companies, 
“N” is the financing body of enterprises, including core enterprises and SMEs, and “1” is 
a professional supply chain financial platform. Supply chain financial platforms are clas-
sified into three types: core enterprise-led, fintech company-led, and bank-led [27]. The 
“M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform depends on the core enterprises’ strong busi-
ness credit. It integrates the supply chain network’s logistics, information flow, and capi-
tal flow through the core enterprises to subtly raise the level of trust among the upstream 
and downstream SMEs [28]. Financial institutions primarily provide accounts receivable 
financing, future cargo right financing mode, warehouse financing, and other loan modes 
to SMEs on the supply chain financial service platform. Figure 1 below shows the 
"M+1+N" supply chain finance platform. 
 
Figure 1. “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform. 
In the accounts receivable financing business of the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finan-
cial platform, SMEs sign transaction contracts with core enterprises to create accounts re-
ceivable, but core enterprise does not immediately pay accounts receivable. In addition, 
both parties agree that accounts receivable will be paid at a future date. In the event of 
insufficient funds, SMEs will initiate accounts receivable financing service to supply chain 
financial platform, transfer the accounts receivable to financial institutions, and notify 
core enterprises that the accounts receivable debt is transferred. As soon as core enter-
prises receive the notice, core enterprises confirm the transfer with financial institutions, 
and financial institutions verify contracts, invoices, shipping documents, and other trans-
actional information, as well as the legitimacy of the accounts receivable and transfer, be-
fore making a loan to SMEs. On the due date of the accounts receivable contracts, core 
enterprises must make complete payments [3]. Accounts receivable financing can be gen-
erally divided into recourse and non-recourse. Non-recourse means that financial institu-
tions have no right to demand that the lender repay the loan when core enterprises do not 
repay the loan, while recourse has the right to request that the lender repay the loan [29]. 
For developed countries such as the United States and Italy, non-recourse is more preva-
lent when the bearers of credit risk and financing risk are financial institutions, and SMEs 
do not bear the corresponding risk. In contrast, in developing countries, where credit risk 
and financing risk are more difficult to measure, recourse is more prevalent when the 
primary risk bearers are financial institutions and SMEs. In the “M + 1 + N” supply chain 
finance platform, the risk of each link is more rational and predictable, so this paper will 
explore non-recourse accounts receivable financing. 
Figure 1. “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform.
In the accounts receivable financing business of the “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial
platform, SMEs sign transaction contracts with core enterprises to create accounts receivable,
but core enterprise does not immediately pay accounts receivable. In addition, both parties
agree that accounts receivable will be paid at a future date. In the event of insufficient funds,
SMEs will initiate accounts receivable financing service to supply chain financial platform,
transfer the accounts receivable to financial institutions, and notify core enterprises that the
accounts receivable debt is transferred. As soon as core enterprises receive the notice, core
enterprises confirm the transfer with financial institutions, and financial institutions verify
contracts, invoices, shipping documents, and other transactional information, as well as
the legitimacy of the accounts receivable and transfer, before making a loan to SMEs. On
the due date of the accounts receivable contracts, core enterprises must make complete
payments [3]. Accounts receivable financing can be generally divided into recourse and
non-recourse. Non-recourse means that financial institutions have no right to demand
that the lender repay the loan when core enterprises do not repay the loan, while recourse
has the right to request that the lender repay the loan [29]. For developed countries such
as the United States and Italy, non-recourse is more prevalent when the bearers of credit
risk and financing risk are financial institutions, and SMEs do not bear the corresponding
risk. In contrast, in developing countries, where credit risk and financing risk are more
difficult to measure, recourse is more prevalent when the primary risk bearers are financial
institutions and SMEs. In the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finance platform, the risk of each
link is more rational and predictable, so this paper will explore non-recourse accounts
receivable financing.
Credit from core enterprises and actual logistics, information flow, and capital flow
are the keys to the regular functioning of accounts receivable financing for financial institu-
tions and SMEs. Accounts receivable financing in the “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial
platform is functional. However, there are specific unresolved issues: Firstly, the “M + 1
+ N” supply chain financial platform can only deal with the issue of accounts receivable
financing for first-level SMEs, leaving second-level, third-level, and even N-level SMEs
in the supply chain with little credit transmission. Secondly, for SMEs after the second
level, core enterprises lack credit incentives because production and sales of the first-level
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 400
SMEs are more likely to affect the business of core enterprises, whereas second-, third-,
and even N-level suppliers and distributors are less likely to affect the business of core
enterprises. Thirdly, credit risk exists in accounts receivable financing. In the process
of crediting receivables by core enterprises, core enterprises and SMEs may deliberately
collude to conceal their genuine cooperation relationship and fraudulently obtain loans by
forging false contracts, invoices, and transportation documents [12]. Fourthly, in accounts
receivable financing, the lack of transparency and sharing of logistics, information flow and
capital flow of SMEs make it more difficult for financial institutions to obtain transaction
information, and financial institutions still need to spend certain credit costs when process-
ing corresponding applications for loans for SMEs’ accounts receivable, which reduces the
willingness of financial institutions to finance. Generally speaking, financial institutions,
SMEs, and core enterprises must face credit risk and information asymmetry risk. In partic-
ular, the bullwhip effect between N-level SMEs and financial institutions increases the risks
of credit and information asymmetry between levels, creating a fragile-trust environment
and high-trust risk.
3.2. Accounts Receivable Financing Using Central Bank Digital Currency Technology
Essentially a sovereign credit-based currency, central bank digital currency is a new
kind of money that primarily uses blockchain technology and digital currency technology.
When used for accounts receivable financing, we refer to the two technologies as central
bank digital currency technology. In terms of technology, it is a cryptocurrency; in terms
of implementation, it is an algorithm-based currency; and in terms of use applications,
it is a smart currency [30]. Digital currency technology will increase the timeliness of
their receivables monitoring. Moreover, blockchain technology, which offers complete
transactions and factual certainty, will minimize uncertainty, insecurity, and ambiguity
in transactions [31]. As a result, central bank digital currency can be applied to accounts
receivable financing in supply chain finance to address SMEs’ credit risk and information
asymmetry risk under the short-credit transmission regime.
3.2.1. Digital Currency Technology
Corporations in supply the chain financial platform will transfer money whenever it
does business. Central bank digital currency, a cryptocurrency, and algorithmic currency
is based on the nation’s sovereign credit and uses digital technology. In Accounting and
Industry 4.0, Fülöp et al. point out the current status, trends, and importance of fintech,
such as central bank digital currencies, in the digitalization of accounting. In addition,
combining the Technical Success Model (TAM) with trust and risk as a theoretical basis for
the analysis, the results show that users trust and use the collected information and verify
the availability of digital services [32]. When compared to traditional paper currency, central
bank digital currency reduces the need for financial institutions to spend transportation,
storage, and security of cash throughout the accounts receivable financing process. At
the same time, sophisticated physical anti-counterfeiting technology is not used, and
additional expenses are not required to increase printing quality and anti-counterfeiting
capabilities. Simply said, digital currency technology enables central bank digital currency
to be optimized to a considerable degree without incurring the expenses associated with
paying for paper currency, both in the existing currency operating system and the accounts
receivable financing procedure.
Central bank digital currency has changed traditional paper currency payment mech-
anisms, improving the payment’s security and dependability. It uses the “anonymous
front-end and real-name back-end” methodology so that it can be used and recorded for
payment transactions in the supply chain financial platform [33]. Financial institutions are
also permitted to access the transaction information records of the supply chain financial
platform and use the invoice information records of SMEs to confirm the authenticity and
legitimacy of capital flow. The payment transaction records of central bank digital currency
technology may be a reliable source of evidence of the credit of SMEs when requesting
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 401
accounts receivable financing from financial institutions. In contrast to traditional paper
currency, digital currency technology effectively shows the trajectory of money circulation
and links lending behavior to corporate credit; implements a broad coverage network
supervision; effectively lowers illegal and criminal acts; and aids in the financial security of
receivables and the protection of SMEs’ and core enterprises’ rights and interests.
Using traditional paper currency necessitates relying on the equipment or branches of
financial institutions, which costs money and takes time. Central bank digital currency uses
digital currency technology that combines capital flow and information flow in a very effi-
cient manner. As a result, transactions and settlements may be completed simultaneously,
achieving the benefits of peer-to-peer payment and instant settlement. The effectiveness of
loan and the smooth functioning of the loan system are enhanced by using central bank
digital currency for accounts receivable financing rather than traditional forms of paper
currency. Additionally, as central bank digital currency circulates among businesses, core
enterprises’ credit is gradually passed down. For example, first-tier suppliers get payment
from core enterprises in the form of digital currency from the central bank, which first-tier
suppliers then use to pay for raw materials from second-tier suppliers, and so on, the
credit of core enterprises is transmitted downward step by step through the actual payment
transactions of central bank digital currency, solving the issue that the traditional supply
chain finance platform relies too heavily on the credit of core enterprises and lacks sufficient
incentive for core enterprises to grant credit [34]. Central bank digital currency can track
the flow of funds, further verify the transaction’s authenticity, and help SMEs solve their
credit risk and information asymmetry risk. For another example, subsequent payment
transactions initiated with central bank digital currency must be coordinated with financial
institutions, which will use digital features of central bank digital currency to implement
oversight after an SME obtains a loan to pay its accounts receivable financing in central
bank digital currency. When an SME is discovered to be using central bank digital currency
for improper transactions or transactions with illegal content, financial institutions can
identify these transactions and content, correct them if necessary, or close the relevant
transactions to control risk and, if necessary, ensure compliance. This will allow the loan to
flow appropriately, such as for regular business operations. The credit risk and information
asymmetry risk that SMEs are facing may be addressed with the aid of the aforementioned
strategies.
3.2.2. Blockchain Technology
Blockchain technology is a component of a system behind central bank digital currency
technology. Prior to now, dual payments and the Byzantine General issue had been
cryptographic digital currencies’ two most significant issues. The expression “double
payment issue” refers to making payments in two or more transactions with an “identical
amount of money.” The Byzantine General issue is the problem of consensus and mutual
trust in distributed systems in the absence of a trusted central node. These issues can
be successfully solved due to the advancement of generalized blockchain technology. A
blockchain is a form of a shared ledger that joins data blocks into a specific data structure
in a chain in chronological order. It is cryptographically guaranteed to be tamper-proof
and unfalsifiable—a reliable, decentralized system without relying on a single node. With
blockchain technology under central bank digital currency, the central bank is always one
of the most prominent trusted nodes in the system. In other words, the distributed ledger
of the central bank digital currency is always owned by the central bank, so there is no
need to worry about this issue.
For accounts receivable financing on the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finance platform,
with blockchain technology, purchase orders, logistics, information flow, and capital flow
movement may all be integrated into a distributed ledger-based data flow. Order transac-
tion information and related transportation data of third-party logistics companies, such
as delivery and receipt data, are contained in the order, while third-party logistics com-
panies will also provide supervisory roles, billing information, third-party transportation
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 402
information, and partnership records of historical transactions are also included in the
order. Information flow is the integration of purchase order, logistics, and capital flow,
while capital flow comprises information about buyer-seller invoices, as well as records of
payment methods and bank account information [24]. In addition, the central bank owns
the general ledger of the capital flow at the moment, giving it complete reliability and
granting the financial institution access to the capital flow for that receivable upon request.
After asymmetric encryption, blockchain technology is used to broadcast information flow
to pertinent supply chain financial platform players, such as broadcasting to financial
institutions.
Blockchain technology can improve the control and accessibility of logistics, infor-
mation flow, and capital flow of supply chain financial platform, facilitate the review of
financial institutions, strengthen trust between the subjects of the supply chain financial
platform, and effectively resolve credit risk and information asymmetry risk. Blockchain
technology can also digitize the workflow through smart contracts to reduce the operational
risk of the platform. For instance, in traditional accounts receivable financing, there is a
possibility of intentional collusion between SMEs and core enterprises to obtain loans by
forging fake contracts, invoices, and fake transportation documents, but blockchain tech-
nology ensures information invariance and traceability in the supply chain to guarantee the
authenticity and reliability of the relevant information of enterprises in need of loans and
thus eliminates this possibility [35]. There is no theoretical way for SMEs to manipulate the
transaction data stored in the supply chain finance platform using blockchain technology,
either before or after default. The only possible behavior is general non-repayment, which
will result in credit loss for SMEs And lose the confidence of financial institutions.
3.2.3. Simplified Accounts Receivable Financing and Comments
Central bank digital currency provides the confirmation for each transaction, produc-
ing a set of tamper-evident digital payment vouchers for use in core enterprises and SMEs’
accounts receivable financing, in the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finance platform to make
full use of smart contracts. Smart contracts reduce the cost of negotiating between parties to
a transaction and prevent unforeseen abnormalities or malicious behavior during contract
fulfillment by translating contract terms into code and embedding them in software or
hardware so that they are automatically performed [36]. Not only may smart contracts be
used, but a small number of them can also be locally implemented—that is, signed and
performed by the participants for that accounts receivable financing.
A simplified accounts receivable financing should include the following stages:
In the initial stage, financial institutions sign cooperation agreements with core enter-
prises and immediately transfer crucial data from the ERP systems of core enterprises to
the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finance platform blockchain, including logistics, information
flow, and capital flow. Financial institutions will grant credit of a certain amount according
to the assets of core enterprises; In the secondary and multiple credit stage, when relevant
receivables are present, core enterprises upload information on the first-tier suppliers (or
distributors) and verify it with financial institutions. Financial institutions check core
enterprises’ distributors (or suppliers). Additionally, first-tier suppliers (or distributors)
that have received approval from financial institutions may promote their upstream second-
tier suppliers (or distributors) to those institutions; In the financing application stage, the
first-tier suppliers (or distributors) whose accounts receivable have been established and
verified by core enterprises may submit a loan application to financial institutions or divide
the verified accounts receivable to secondary suppliers (or distributors). After verifying
with core enterprises, financial institutions request that the supplier (or distributor) supply
logistics, information flow, capital flow, and other relevant contract documentation. Then,
after additional verification of the particular supervisory account, loans can be provided in
central bank digital currency; In the repayment stage, when the loan is due, core enterprises
use a smart contract to pay the lending immediately. Financial institutions will send out a
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 403
demand letter in the event of overdue payments and freeze the associated assets until full
repayment is received.
Accounts receivable financing using central bank digital currency technology differs
from accounts receivable financing of traditional supply chain financial platforms in the
following ways:
• Digital currency technology provides cheaper transaction costs, safer payments, and
improved payment efficiency in the accounts receivable financing process. Compared
to traditional paper currency, it is enabled to show the flow of loan and record the
date, location, and recipient of the loan, making it much easier for financial institu-
tions to comprehend and monitor, whether for forwarding supervision or backward
monitoring.
• Blockchain technology is used by the central bank digital currency technology sys-
tem to reduce credit costs for financial institutions, avoid traditional supply chain
finance, and improve the ability to share logistics, information flow, and capital flow
in accounts receivable financing among various supply chain financial platform top-
ics. Additionally, built on smart contracts, information invariance, and traceability, it
prevents fraudulent collaborative lending and boosts financial security.
• The service platform’s dispersed and trading information of variable quality for
accounts receivable financing prevents the development of information barriers. Fur-
thermore, core enterprises’ credit does not transfer well. Central bank digital currency
technology enables the multi-level transmission of core enterprise credit through capi-
tal circulation, enhances the penetration of core enterprise credit throughout the entire
supply chain, and facilitates credit access for SMEs at all levels.
The central bank digital currency technology effectively addresses the credit risk and
information asymmetry risk of traditional accounts receivable financing; enhances trust be-
tween secondary and subsequent SMEs, core enterprises, and financial institutions; enables
financial institutions to only access actual supply chain transaction information; increases
in operational efficiency; and lowers financing risks with a very modest introduction of
central bank technology, currency technology expenses, and capital flow supervisory costs.
4. Descriptions of the Parameters and Model Presumptions
4.1. Descriptions of the Parameters
The primary considerations for financial institutions when deciding whether to loan
SMEs in accounts receivable financing are credit risk and information asymmetry risk.
There is little research on this topic since central bank digital currency technology is a new
technology. Financial institutions have difficulty figuring out if their choices optimize their
interests. As a result, financial institutions may decide to “use” or “not use” central bank
digital currency technology depending on their judgments and benefits. Moreover, SMEs
have the option of “repay” or “not repay” the loan based on their profitability, capability for
repayment, and risk of default. When financial institutions do not use central bank digital
currency technology, SMEs may conspire with core enterprises to maximize their profits,
conceal the genuine cooperation relationship between the two sides, and fabricate the
logistics, information flow, and capital flow to obtain loans, which may easily cause losses
if there is no supervision. However, after using central bank digital currency technology,
the transaction in question is completed in a transparent and safe manner. SMEs are unable
to falsify any logistical, information, or capital flow due to the non-traceability, and capital
flow oversight by financial institutions.
Hypothesis 1 (H1): The probability of financial institutions choosing to “use” central bank digital
currency technology isx(0 < x < 1), and the probability of choosing “not use” is 1 − x; the
probability of SMEs choosing to “repay” loan after receiving it is y(0 < y < 1), the probability of
choosing “non repay“ is 1 − y. Financial institutions provide loans R to SMEs at interest rates of
r1 for loan and r2 for investment.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 404
Hypothesis 2 (H2): SMEs will produce the loans they get legitimately and earn receivable income
B if they do not conspire with core enterprises to cheat on loans. P represents the usual production
costs. The benefit distribution ratio attained when SMEs band together with core enterprises to forge
loans is k. To avoid financial institutions’ investigation, the costs of forging F must be paid before
making the loan, and G is the revenue used for investment after the receipt of fraudulent loans.
Hypothesis 3 (H3): Financial institutions can now access transaction data from SMEs at a much
lower costs thanks to the “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform, which is powered by central
bank digital currency technology. Only central bank digital currency technology costs c2, and
capital flow supervision costs c3 ; there is no need to pay the credit costs c1 without using central
bank digital currency technology, so c1 > c2 + c3. If repaid, SMEs will get the credit block incentive
v1 and direct trust from financial institutions, establishing a track record for future business, while
financial institutions receive credible income v2. Instead, if they fail to pay back loans or cheat on
loans together, they will be charged a penalty of u1 for non-payment by SMEs using of central bank
digital currency technology and u2 for non-payment by SMEs not using it.
Table 1 shows the basic parameters.
Table 1. Basic parameters descriptions.
Parameters Meaning of Parameters
x/1 − x Probabilities of financial institutions using or not using central bank digital
currency technology
y/1 − y Probabilities of SMEs repayment or non-repayment
R Loans provided to SMEs
r1 Accounts receivable loan interest rates
r2 Financial institutions investment rates
B Receivables income for SMEs
c1 Financial institutions’ credit costs
c2 Technology costs for central bank digital currency technology
c3 Costs for supervision capital flow
F SMEs share the expenses of loan fraud and counterfeiting.
G SMEs illegally acquired loans and exploited them to generate investment
revenue.
P SMEs production costs
k Joint fraudulent loan allocation rate to SMEs
v1 Credit block incentives
v2 Financial institutions benefit from trust.
u1
Non-payment penalty for SMEs that use central bank digital currency
technology
u2
Non-payment penalty for SMEs that no-use central bank digital currency
technology
4.2. Model Presumptions
Model 1: Financial institutions use central bank digital currency technology and incur
no credit costs c1. It must pay central bank digital currency technology costs c2 and capital
flow supervision costs c3. In addition, it creates an interest gain Rr1 and loses an additional
investment gain Rr2.
If SMEs repays the loan normally and in accordance with the contract time, they will
receive receivable gain B, and credit block incentives v1, but must also pay production
costs P and repayment interest Rr1. At this point, SMEs gain is B − P − Rr1 + v1; Financial
institutions are repaid the loan when it matures, earn a respectable gain v2, the technical
cost of central bank digital money technology c2 and capital flow supervision costs c3,
and at that point its net gain is Rr1 + v2 − c2 − c3 − Rr2. If SMEs refuse to pay, they
will still need to produce regularly, spend on production expenses P, get the receivables
revenue B, and return the loan R, but it will not receive the credit block incentive v1 and
will be subject to the non-repayment penalty u1, so the net benefit is B + R + Rr1 − P − u1.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 405
Financial institutions cannot recover the loan R and will also lose the interest on the
financed account Rr1 but will get the non-repayment penalty u1 from the SMEs since the
financed loan turns into bad debt when it matures. Financial institutions now have a net
gain of −R − Rr1 − Rr2 − c2 − c3 + u1.
Model 2: Financial institutions do not use central bank digital currency technology;
they only need to pay for credit collection c1, but not for central bank digital currency
technology costs c2 or capital flow supervision cos c3.
If SMEs repay the loan in accordance with the terms of the contract, it will receive a
receivable gain B, be required to pay production costs P and interest Rr1, but it will not be
able to receive credit block incentives v1, and its net gain will be B − P − Rr1; in contrast,
if financial institutions recover loan at maturity, it will incur credit costs c1 and receive a
credible gain v2, and will realize a net gain of Rr1 + v2 − c1 − Rr2. Due to the limitations
of conventional financial institutions’ credit collection practices and their lack of control
over the supply chain finance’s logistics, information flow, and capital flow, SMEs will
jointly cheat on the loan with core enterprises if they fail to return the loan. The necessity to
create the necessary items and the accompanying production costs P are not now present
in SMEs and core enterprises. As a result, SMEs are prohibited from receiving credit block
incentives v1 and will suffer the consequences of non-repayment u2, while also incurring
the costs of counterfeiting F, sharing the financing kR of accounts receivable, and earning
investment income G. Consequently, the net profit is kR + Rr1 + G − F − u2. Financial
institutions will only get the non-payment penalty u2 since the funded loan is a bad debt at
maturity and cannot be collected. Additionally, financial institutions will lose the interest
on the financed account Rr1 and be unable to collect the financed loan R. At this moment,
financial institutions have a net gain of −R − Rr1 − Rr2 − c1 + u2.
4.3. Evolutionary Game Analysis
4.3.1. Financial Institutions and SMEs’ Strategic Stability Analyses
For financial institutions: Based on the revenue matrix of both financial institutions
and SMEs in Table 2, it is possible to determine the anticipated revenue function for financial
institutions when using the central bank digital currency technology and the expected
revenue function when not using it.
Ex = y(Rr1 + v2 − c2 − c3 − Rr2) + (1 − y)(u1 − R − Rr1 − Rr2 − c2 − c3) (1)
E(1 − x) = y(Rr1 + v2 − c1 − Rr2) + (1 − y) (u2 − R − Rr1 − Rr2 − c1) (2)
Table 2. Benefit matrix for SMEs and financial institutions.
SMEs
Repay Non-Repay
Financial
institutions
use B − P − Rr1 + v1 B + R + Rr1 − P − u1
Rr1 + v2 − c2 − c3 − Rr2 −R − Rr1 − Rr2 − c2 −
c3 + u1
not use
B − P − Rr1 kR + Rr1 + G − F − u2
Rr1 + v2 − c1 − Rr2 −R−Rr1−Rr2− c1+u2
The average expectation of financial institutions is determined by Equations (1) and
(2) and is: Ex = xEx + (1 − x)E(1 − x).
As a result, the replication dynamic differential equation for financial institutions
using central bank digital currency technology is obtained as follows:
F(x) =
dx
dt
= x(1 − x)[y(u2 − u1) + c1 − c2 − c3 + u1 − u2] (3)
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 406
The following conditions must be satisfied for the probability of using central bank
digital currency technology of financial institutions to be in a stable state in accordance
with the differential equation’s stability theorem: F(x) = 0 let F(x) = 0, then:
x1 = 0, x2 = 1, y∗ =
c1 − c2 − c3 + u1 − u2
u1 − u2
(4)
For SMEs: Based on the revenue matrix of both financial institutions and SMEs in
Table 2, the expected return function when the loan is repaid and the expected return
function when the loan is not repaid:
Ey = x(B − P − Rr1 + v1) + (1 − x)(B − P − Rr1) (5)
E(1 − y) = x(B + R + Rr1 − P − u1) + (1 − x)(kR + Rr1 + G − F − u2) (6)
The average expectation of SMEs is determined by Equations (5) and (6) and is:
Ey = y Ey + (1 − y)E(1 − y).
As a result, the dynamic replication equation of SEMs’ repayment is obtained as:
F(y) =
dy
dt
= y(1 − y)[x(kR − B − F + G + P − R + u1 − u2 + v1) + B + F − G − P + u2 − kR − 2Rr1
]
(7)
The following conditions must be satisfied for the probability of repayment of the
SMEs to be in a stable state in accordance with the differential equation’s stability theorem.
F(y) = 0, let F(y) = 0, then:
y1 = 0, y2 = 1, x∗ = − B + F − G − P + u2 − kR − 2Rr1
kR − B − F + G + P − R + u1 − u2 + v1
(8)
4.3.2. Equilibrium Point Stability Analysis
The game between financial institutions and SMEs can be described by a system
consisting of Equations (3) and (7). This system has five equilibrium positions: E1(0,0),
E2(0,1), E3(1,0), E4(1,1), E5(x∗,y∗). When the range of x∗, y∗ is (0,1), E5 is likewise the system
equilibrium point. In order to make the study of the parameters easier, we assume the
following assumptions, such that:
a = −(B + F − G − P + u2 − kR − 2Rr1)
b = kR − B − F + G + P − R + u1 − u2 + v1
c = c1 − c2 − c3 + u1 − u2
d = u1 − u2
I

a > 0
b > 0
a − b < 0
II

a < 0
b < 0
a − b > 0
III

c > 0
d > 0
c − d < 0
IV

c < 0
d < 0
c − d > 0
The four combination strategies for the E5 equilibrium points are Condition1 (I, III),
Condition2 (I, IV), Condition3 (II, III), and Condition4 (II, IV) based on the above-mentioned
four cases. After determining the partial derivatives for the two replicated dynamic
differential Equations (3) and (7), a Jacobi matrix is the output. The stability of the system’s
equilibrium point may be ascertained using the local stability analysis of the Jacobi matrix:
deJ = a11a22− a12a21, trJ = a11+ a22. The four strategy combinations are introduced into
the Jacobi matrix to get the results. ESS has to meet these requirements: deJ > 0, trJ < 0.
Table 3 is the stability analysis of equilibrium point.
J =
 ∂F(x)
∂x
∂F(x)
∂y
∂F(y)
∂x
∂F(y)
∂y
 =
(
a11a12
a21a22
)
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 407
Table 3. Analysis of equilibrium point stability.
(0,0) (0,1) (1,0) (1,1) (x∗,y∗)
Condition1
deJ − − − − /
trJ − Unknown + Unknown 0
Evolutionary
Results × × × × ×
Condition2
deJ + + + + /
trJ − + Unknown − 0
Evolutionary
Results ESS × × ESS ×
Condition3
deJ + − + + /
trJ + − Unknown + 0
Evolutionary
Results × × × × ×
Condition4
deJ − − − − /
trJ + Unknown − Unknown 0
Evolutionary
Results × × × × ×
According to the findings of the above table, it can be inferred that when Condition 2
is satisfied, in other words, when the molecular denominator values are all negative, the
final balance will be stable. This indicates that financial institutions use central bank digital
currency technology; SMEs repay and financial institutions do not use central bank digital
currency technology; and SMEs do not repay as the final evolutionary stability strategy.
Figure 2 shows the phase diagram of the results of the evolutionary process. Figure 3 shows
the use of central bank digital currency technology for accounts receivable financing.
Figure 4 indicates that the development of points O (0,0) and B (1,1) yields two stable
findings, suggesting that the replication dynamic curves of both financial institutions
and SMEs have the propensity to converge to points O and B. When both game subjects’
dynamic curves converge to point O (0,0), financial institutions decide to not use central
bank digital currency technology, and SMEs decide to not repay the loan. However, when
both game subjects’ dynamic curves converge to point B (1,1), financial institutions decide
to use central bank digital currency technology, and SMEs decide to repay the loan. The
critical point for calculating the likelihood that the two replicated dynamic curves will
converge to points O and B is point E. The quadrilaterals AECB and AECO comprise the
two regions of the square OABC that are separated by the line AC. The size of these two
areas determines the final direction of game participant, so that the quadrilateral AECB’s
area is S1 and the quadrilateral AECO’s area is S2. When S1 > S2, both sides of the game
will tend toward the evolution of financial institutions using central bank digital currency
technology and SMEs repayment. When S1 < S2, both sides of the game will tend toward
the evolution of financial institutions not using central bank digital currency technology
and SMEs´ non-repayment. Additionally, S1, S2 is dependent on the variables x∗, y∗, where
AECB’s area is S1 = 1
2 [(1 − y∗) + (1 − x∗)] and AECO’s area is S2 = 1
2 (x∗ + y∗).
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 408J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 15 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Accounts receivable financing. 
 
Figure 3. Accounts receivable financing using central bank digital currency technology. 
Figure 4 indicates that the development of points O (0,0) and B (1,1) yields two stable 
findings, suggesting that the replication dynamic curves of both financial institutions and 
SMEs have the propensity to converge to points O and B. When both game subjects’ dy-
namic curves converge to point O (0,0), financial institutions decide to not use central bank 
digital currency technology, and SMEs decide to not repay the loan. However, when both 
game subjects’ dynamic curves converge to point B (1,1), financial institutions decide to 
use central bank digital currency technology, and SMEs decide to repay the loan. The crit-
ical point for calculating the likelihood that the two replicated dynamic curves will con-
verge to points O and B is point E. The quadrilaterals AECB and AECO comprise the two 
regions of the square OABC that are separated by the line AC. The size of these two areas 
determines the final direction of game participant, so that the quadrilateral AECB’s area 
is  and the quadrilateral AECO’s area is . When > , both sides of the game will 
tend toward the evolution of financial institutions using central bank digital currency 
technology and SMEs repayment. When < , both sides of the game will tend toward 
the evolution of financial institutions not using central bank digital currency technology 
and SMEs´ non-repayment. Additionally, ,  is dependent on the variables ∗ , ∗ , 
where AECB’s area is = [(1 − ∗) + (1 − ∗)] and AECO’s area is = ( ∗ + ∗). 
Figure 2. Accounts receivable financing.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 15 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Accounts receivable financing. 
 
Figure 3. Accounts receivable financing using central bank digital currency technology. 
Figure 4 indicates that the development of points O (0,0) and B (1,1) yields two stable 
findings, suggesting that the replication dynamic curves of both financial institutions and 
SMEs have the propensity to converge to points O and B. When both game subjects’ dy-
namic curves converge to point O (0,0), financial institutions decide to not use central bank 
digital currency technology, and SMEs decide to not repay the loan. However, when both 
game subjects’ dynamic curves converge to point B (1,1), financial institutions decide to 
use central bank digital currency technology, and SMEs decide to repay the loan. The crit-
ical point for calculating the likelihood that the two replicated dynamic curves will con-
verge to points O and B is point E. The quadrilaterals AECB and AECO comprise the two 
regions of the square OABC that are separated by the line AC. The size of these two areas 
determines the final direction of game participant, so that the quadrilateral AECB’s area 
is  and the quadrilateral AECO’s area is . When > , both sides of the game will 
tend toward the evolution of financial institutions using central bank digital currency 
technology and SMEs repayment. When < , both sides of the game will tend toward 
the evolution of financial institutions not using central bank digital currency technology 
and SMEs´ non-repayment. Additionally, ,  is dependent on the variables ∗ , ∗ , 
where AECB’s area is = [(1 − ∗) + (1 − ∗)] and AECO’s area is = ( ∗ + ∗). 
Figure 3. Accounts receivable financing using central bank digital currency technology.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 16 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Evolutionary game between SMEs and financial institutions. 
5. Discussion 
5.1. Parameters Analysis 
Financial institutions and SMEs will continuously modify their strategies in response 
to changes in parameter values as the game progresses, which can be directly reflected by 
the coordinate of point E and can also be further analyzed through point E to analyze 
parameters that affect the outcome of the evolutionary game. The purpose of this paper is 
to investigate how central bank digital currency technology affects accounts receivable 
financing offered by the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finance platform. Accordingly, the pri-
mary research parameters are , , , , , , . As for parameters , , , , , ,
, this paper does not undertake much research since accounts receivable financing is in-
volved. We can observe that the evolutionary game’s outcome and the saddle point’s co-
ordinates are closely associated with the values of E( ∗, ∗). 
Since central bank digital currency technology enables information sharing between 
financial institutions and SMEs in the “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform, it mod-
ifies the traditional approach taken by financial institutions to collecting credit, which has 
some bearing on accounts receivable financing. The parameters of the aforementioned 
study are split into two categories in this paper: he first category is concerned with the 
credit method of financial institutions and includes , 	 	 , whilhe second category 
relates to sanctions and rewards both before and after the use of central bank digital cur-
rency technology, and includes , , 	and	 . 
The stability condition of the equilibrium point, Condition 2, informs us that >0, > 0, − < 0, < 0, < 0, − > 0. The partial derivatives of each significant pa-
rameter with respect to the area  are separately obtained, assuming that all other pa-
rameters are kept constant. From these partial derivatives, we can infer the contribution 
of each parameter to the influence of both parties’ decisions, with a positive correlation 
denoted by +, and a negative correlation denoted by. 
Therefore, the following inferences may be drawn from Table 4: 
Table 4. Impact analysis of parameters. 
Parameters Partial Derivatives’ Positivity and Negativity Result for  
 + positive 
 − negative 
 − negative 
 + positive 
 + positive 
 + positive 
 − negative 
Figure 4. Evolutionary game between SMEs and financial institutions.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 409
5. Discussion
5.1. Parameters Analysis
Financial institutions and SMEs will continuously modify their strategies in response
to changes in parameter values as the game progresses, which can be directly reflected
by the coordinate of point E and can also be further analyzed through point E to analyze
parameters that affect the outcome of the evolutionary game. The purpose of this paper is to
investigate how central bank digital currency technology affects accounts receivable financ-
ing offered by the “M + 1 + N” supply chain finance platform. Accordingly, the primary
research parameters are c1, c2, c3, k, v1, u1, u2. As for parameters R, r1, r2, B, F, G, P, this
paper does not undertake much research since accounts receivable financing is involved.
We can observe that the evolutionary game’s outcome and the saddle point’s coordinates
are closely associated with the values of E(x∗,y∗).
Since central bank digital currency technology enables information sharing between
financial institutions and SMEs in the “M + 1 + N” supply chain financial platform, it
modifies the traditional approach taken by financial institutions to collecting credit, which
has some bearing on accounts receivable financing. The parameters of the aforementioned
study are split into two categories in this paper: he first category is concerned with the credit
method of financial institutions and includes c1, c2 and c3, whilhe second category relates
to sanctions and rewards both before and after the use of central bank digital currency
technology, and includes k, v1, u1 and u2.
The stability condition of the equilibrium point, Condition 2, informs us that a > 0, b >
0, a − b < 0, c < 0, d < 0, c − d > 0. The partial derivatives of each significant parameter
with respect to the area S1 are separately obtained, assuming that all other parameters
are kept constant. From these partial derivatives, we can infer the contribution of each
parameter to the influence of both parties’ decisions, with a positive correlation denoted by
+, and a negative correlation denoted by.
Therefore, the following inferences may be drawn from Table 4:
Table 4. Impact analysis of parameters.
Parameters Partial Derivatives’
Positivity and Negativity Result for S1
c1 + positive
c2 − negative
c3 − negative
k + positive
v1 + positive
u1 + positive
u2 − negative
Corollary 1: Related to credit that financial institutions collect: The relationship
between c1 and S1 is positive, while c2, c3 and S1 are negative. When financing receivables,
if financial institutions have to pay a greater c1, S1 will also be higher, indicating that
the higher credit costs will drive them to choose to use central bank digital currency
technology. However, S1 is lesser when c2, c3 are greater. It makes sense that financial
institutions will not use central bank digital currency technology if the expenses associated
with both supervision capital flows and technology are higher. The primary problems
preventing financial institutions from using central bank digital currency technology to
supervise accounts receivable financing are the costs of the technology and capital flow
supervision. The costs of using central bank digital currency technology will continue
to decline, and financial institutions will be more willing to accept the technology for
financing supervision as a result of the rapid development and research of central bank
digital currency technology in significant countries around the world.
Corollary 2: Penalties and incentives related to the use of central bank digital currency
technology: The relationship between v1, u1 and S1 is positive, while k, u2 and S1 are
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 410
negative. If the credit block incentive v1 and the non-repayment penalty u1 for SMEs using
central bank digital currency technology are higher, S1 is also higher, suggesting that the
credit block incentive will encourage SMEs to repay and also trend SMEs to repay due
to the increased non-repayment penalty. As a result, financial institutions will choose
to use central bank digital currency technology. However, without using central bank
digital currency technology, the greater k, u2 is, the smaller S1 is, and the higher SMEs’ joint
fraud allocation rate and non-repayment penalty would lead SMEs to non-repayment. For
example, when financing the receivables from secondary suppliers, if the allocation rate
for joint fraudulent loans is higher, the secondary suppliers may decide to take the risk of
making joint fraudulent loans to SMEs and defaulting on the loans even though the penalty
for non-repayment is also higher.
5.2. Simulation Analysis
In this chapter, numerical simulations of the repeated dynamic equations in the
evolutionary game model are carried out using Matlab and Python in order to confirm
further the accuracy of the parameters, models, and analytical corollaries in the preceding
section. It is difficult to use accurate data to test accounts receivable financing model since
comprehensive information on the accounts receivable financing process is not readily
accessible from publicly available sources. However, many researchers now simulate
accounts receivable financing using numerical simulations in order to do more research [37].
We should initialize the assignment of variables in accordance with the limitations of the
evolutionary stabilization approach before starting the simulation analysis [38].
Let: R = 600, r1 = r2 = 0.05, B = 100, c1 = 80, c2 = 5, c3 = 5, F = 200, G = 100, P =
300, k = 0.5, v1 = 50, v2 = 20, u1 = 400, u2 = 600. At the original value setting, the value
of E5 may be calculated to be around (0.467,0.65). The results of the initial value simulation
are shown in the following Figure 5.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 17 
 
 
Corollary 1: Related to credit that financial institutions collect: The relationship be-
tween  and  is positive, while ,  and  are negative. When financing receiva-
bles, if financial institutions have to pay a greater ,  will also be higher, indicating 
that the higher credit costs will drive them to choose to use central bank digital currency 
technology. However,  is lesser when ,  are greater. It makes sense that financial 
institutions will not use central bank digital currency technology if the expenses associ-
ated with both supervision capital flows and technology are higher. The primary prob-
lems preventing financial institutions from using central bank digital currency technology 
to supervise accounts receivable financing are the costs of the technology and capital flow 
supervision. The costs of using central bank digital currency technology will continue to 
decline, and financial institutions will be more willing to accept the technology for financ-
ing supervision as a result of the rapid development and research of central bank digital 
currency technology in significant countries around the world. 
Corollary 2: Penalties and incentives related to the use of central bank digital cur-
rency technology: The relationship between ,  and  is positive, while ,  and  
are negative. If the credit block incentive  and the non-repayment penalty  for SMEs 
using central bank digital currency technology are higher,  is also higher, suggesting 
that the credit block incentive will encourage SMEs to repay and also trend SMEs to repay 
due to the increased non-repayment penalty. As a result, financial institutions will choose 
to use central bank digital currency technology. However, without using central bank dig-
ital currency technology, the greater ,  is, the smaller  is, and the higher SMEs’ joint 
fraud allocation rate and non-repayment penalty would lead SMEs to non-repayment. For 
example, when financing the receivables from secondary suppliers, if the allocation rate 
for joint fraudulent loans is higher, the secondary suppliers may decide to take the risk of 
making joint fraudulent loans to SMEs and defaulting on the loans even though the pen-
alty for non-repayment is also higher. 
5.2. Simulation Analysis 
In this chapter, numerical simulations of the repeated dynamic equations in the evo-
lutionary game model are carried out using Matlab and Python in order to confirm further 
the accuracy of the parameters, models, and analytical corollaries in the preceding section. 
It is difficult to use accurate data to test accounts receivable financing model since com-
prehensive information on the accounts receivable financing process is not readily acces-
sible from publicly available sources. However, many researchers now simulate accounts 
receivable financing using numerical simulations in order to do more research [37]. We 
should initialize the assignment of variables in accordance with the limitations of the evo-
lutionary stabilization approach before starting the simulation analysis [38]. 
Let: = 600, 1 = 2 = 0.05, = 100, 1 = 80, 2 = 5, 3 = 5, = 200, = 100, =300, = 0.5, 1 = 50, 2 = 20, 1 = 400, 2 = 600. At the original value setting, the value 
of  may be calculated to be around (0.467,0.65). The results of the initial value simula-
tion are shown in the following Figure 5. 
 
Figure 5. Initial Simulation Chart.
About the financial institutions’ credit costs c1: When c1 increases from 90 to 130
while controlling the other parameters to take the same value, the simulation results are
shown in Figure 6 below. When compared to Figure 5, the E point moves to the bottom
left corner, at which point it becomes apparent that S1 > S2. Therefore, it is known that
when the costs of credit for financial institutions rise, more initial points converge to the
point (1,1). It suggests that financial institutions favor using central bank digital currency
technology, while SMEs favor the repayment strategy. Due to the “M + 1 + N” supply chain
financial platform, financial institutions often undertake actual offline investigations of
the credit and qualification of SMEs, which is time-consuming and expensive. However,
central bank digital currency technology has caused financial institutions to consider the
possibility of significantly lowering the costs of loans to SMEs. To put it another way, the
more expensive it is to solve credit risk and information asymmetry risk, the less interest
financial institutions make, and the more likely it is that there will be a need to use central
bank digital currency technology to rectify the situation. For SMEs, using central bank
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 411
digital currency technology may improve relationships with financial institutions, build
trust and make it easier to acquire loans. It can also provide access to more information
about the regulatory policies and motivations of financial institutions. Therefore, SMEs
will decide to pay back the loan.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 18 
 
 
Figure 5. Initial Simulation Chart. 
About the financial institutions’ credit costs : When  increases from 90 to 130 
while controlling the other parameters to take the same value, the simulation results are 
shown in Figure 6 below. When compared to Figure 5, the E point moves to the bottom 
left corner, at which point it becomes apparent that > . Therefore, it is known that 
when the costs of credit for financial institutions rise, more initial points converge to the 
point (1,1). It suggests that financial institutions favor using central bank digital currency 
technology, while SMEs favor the repayment strategy. Due to the “M + 1 + N” supply 
chain financial platform, financial institutions often undertake actual offline investiga-
tions of the credit and qualification of SMEs, which is time-consuming and expensive. 
However, central bank digital currency technology has caused financial institutions to 
consider the possibility of significantly lowering the costs of loans to SMEs. To put it an-
other way, the more expensive it is to solve credit risk and information asymmetry risk, 
the less interest financial institutions make, and the more likely it is that there will be a 
need to use central bank digital currency technology to rectify the situation. For SMEs, 
using central bank digital currency technology may improve relationships with financial 
institutions, build trust and make it easier to acquire loans. It can also provide access to 
more information about the regulatory policies and motivations of financial institutions. 
Therefore, SMEs will decide to pay back the loan. 
About central bank digital currency technology costs , the capital flow supervision 
costs : When  and  increase from 5 to 30, while controlling the other parameters to 
take the same value, the simulation results are shown in Figure 6 below. When contrasted 
to Figure 5, the E point of the simulation result moves to the upper right corner, where it 
becomes clear that < . Therefore, it is known that when central bank digital currency 
technology costs and the capital flow supervision costs rise, more initial points converge 
to the point (0,0). This demonstrates both the unwillingness of financial institutions to 
choose the approach of using central bank digital currency technology and SMEs choose 
not to repay their loans. Despite the fact that central bank digital currency technology 
would lower the costs of accounts receivable financing generally, it will still suffer certain 
expenses, such as fixed costs and variable costs, as a result of the imperfect implementa-
tion and early adoption of the technology [39]. Financial institutions are less likely to de-
cide to use central bank digital currency as a mechanism of regulation when ,  are 
too high. Additionally, as a result of decreased regulatory pressure, there is a higher like-
lihood that SMEs may decide not to return the loan. 
  
Figure 6. Simulation results chart for = 130 and = 30, = 30. 
About the joint fraudulent loan allocation rate to SMEs  and the credit block incen-
tives : When maintaining the other parameters’ values and increasing the combined 
fraudulent loan allocation rate of SMEs from 0.5 to 0.7, the simulation results are shown 
in Figure 7 below. The E point shifts to the bottom left corner of Figure 7, where it is dis-
covered that >  in comparison to Figure 5. Therefore, it is well known that when the 
Figure 6. Simulation results chart for c1 = 130 and c2 = 30, c3 = 30.
About central bank digital currency technology costs c2, the capital flow supervision
costs c3: When c2 and c3 increase from 5 to 30, while controlling the other parameters to
take the same value, the simulation results are shown in Figure 6 below. When contrasted
to Figure 5, the E point of the simulation result moves to the upper right corner, where it
becomes clear that S1 < S2. Therefore, it is known that when central bank digital currency
technology costs and the capital flow supervision costs rise, more initial points converge
to the point (0,0). This demonstrates both the unwillingness of financial institutions to
choose the approach of using central bank digital currency technology and SMEs choose
not to repay their loans. Despite the fact that central bank digital currency technology
would lower the costs of accounts receivable financing generally, it will still suffer certain
expenses, such as fixed costs and variable costs, as a result of the imperfect implementation
and early adoption of the technology [39]. Financial institutions are less likely to decide to
use central bank digital currency as a mechanism of regulation when c2, c3 are too high.
Additionally, as a result of decreased regulatory pressure, there is a higher likelihood that
SMEs may decide not to return the loan.
About the joint fraudulent loan allocation rate to SMEs k and the credit block incentives
v1: When maintaining the other parameters’ values and increasing the combined fraudulent
loan allocation rate of SMEs from 0.5 to 0.7, the simulation results are shown in Figure 7
below. The E point shifts to the bottom left corner of Figure 7, where it is discovered that
S1 > S2 in comparison to Figure 5. Therefore, it is well known that when the allocation
rate of joint fraudulent loans to SMEs rises, more initial points converge towards the point
(1,1). This suggests that financial institutions favor the using central bank digital currency
technology strategy, while SMEs favor the repayment strategy. The probability of credit
risk and information asymmetry risk will be considered if financial institutions do not
supervise SMEs and core enterprises; these risks mostly rely on how benefits and penalties
are related. For example, the profits of SMEs would be much more than the penalties from
financial institutions, the higher the distribution ratio of joint loan fraud. SMEs and core
enterprises are therefore ready to take risks and choose joint loan fraud, even if it means
receiving penalties. Therefore, financial institutions are increasingly willing to control
accounts receivable financing using central bank digital currency technology to prevent this
problem. When the credit block incentives are increased from 50 to 100 while controlling the
other parameters to take the same value, the simulation results are shown in Figure 7 below.
When compared to Figure 5, the E point shifts to the top right corner, at which point it
becomes apparent that S1 > S2. Therefore, it is known that when the credit block incentives
rise, more beginning points converge to the point (1,1). When financial institutions use
central bank digital currency technology, credit block incentives are an incentive for SMEs
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 412
with greater credit and regular repayment. Thus, SMEs will adopt repayment strategies in
order to keep high credit and obtain credit block incentives.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 19 
 
 
allocation rate of joint fraudulent loans to SMEs rises, more initial points converge to-
wards the point (1,1). This suggests that financial institutions favor the using central bank 
digital currency technology strategy, while SMEs favor the repayment strategy. The prob-
ability of credit risk and information asymmetry risk will be considered if financial insti-
tutions do not supervise SMEs and core enterprises; these risks mostly rely on how bene-
fits and penalties are related. For example, the profits of SMEs would be much more than 
the penalties from financial institutions, the higher the distribution ratio of joint loan 
fraud. SMEs and core enterprises are therefore ready to take risks and choose joint loan 
fraud, even if it means receiving penalties. Therefore, financial institutions are increas-
ingly willing to control accounts receivable financing using central bank digital currency 
technology to prevent this problem. When the credit block incentives are increased from 
50 to 100 while controlling the other parameters to take the same value, the simulation 
results are shown in Figure 7 below. When compared to Figure 5, the E point shifts to the 
top right corner, at which point it becomes apparent that > . Therefore, it is known 
that when the credit block incentives rise, more beginning points converge to the point 
(1,1). When financial institutions use central bank digital currency technology, credit block 
incentives are an incentive for SMEs with greater credit and regular repayment. Thus, 
SMEs will adopt repayment strategies in order to keep high credit and obtain credit block 
incentives. 
  
Figure 7. Simulation results chart for = 0.7,	 = 100. 
With regard to the non-payment penalties for SMEs that use central bank digital cur-
rency technology , the non-payment penalties for SMEs that no-use central bank digital 
currency technology : Figure 8 shows the simulation results when  is increased from 
400 to 500 while the other parameters remain constant. When  increases from 600 to 
700, the E point moves to the left and > , indicating that more initial points converge 
towards point (1,1) when the penalty for non-repayment by SMEs using central bank dig-
ital currency technology increases. When  increases from 600 to 700, the E point moves 
to the right and < , indicating that more initial points converge towards the point 
(1,1). More starting points converge on the point as the penalty rises (0,0). The larger the 
penalties when using central bank digital currency technology, the higher proportion that 
SMEs will choose to repay the loan since they will be impacted by the counterfeiting costs 
of joint fraudulent lending. The existence of  thereby monitors timely repayment of 
loans by SMEs, thus serving as a facilitator. However, without the use of central bank 
digital currency technology, the larger the penalties for default, rather than simply choos-
ing not to return the loan, the more SMEs will choose not to repay the loan in order to 
maximize their own interests. 
Figure 7. Simulation results chart for k = 0.7, v1 = 100.
With regard to the non-payment penalties for SMEs that use central bank digital
currency technology u1, the non-payment penalties for SMEs that no-use central bank
digital currency technology u2: Figure 8 shows the simulation results when u1 is increased
from 400 to 500 while the other parameters remain constant. When u2 increases from 600 to
700, the E point moves to the left and S1 > S2, indicating that more initial points converge
towards point (1,1) when the penalty for non-repayment by SMEs using central bank digital
currency technology increases. When u2 increases from 600 to 700, the E point moves to the
right and S1 < S2, indicating that more initial points converge towards the point (1,1). More
starting points converge on the point as the penalty rises (0,0). The larger the penalties
when using central bank digital currency technology, the higher proportion that SMEs
will choose to repay the loan since they will be impacted by the counterfeiting costs of
joint fraudulent lending. The existence of u1 thereby monitors timely repayment of loans
by SMEs, thus serving as a facilitator. However, without the use of central bank digital
currency technology, the larger the penalties for default, rather than simply choosing not to
return the loan, the more SMEs will choose not to repay the loan in order to maximize their
own interests.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18, FOR PEER REVIEW 20 
 
 
  
Figure 8. Simulation results chart for  =510 = 700. 
6. Conclusions 
A supply chain financial platform based on central bank digital currency will emerge 
as more and more nations study and speed up the application process of central bank 
digital currency, as well as the rapid development of financial technology like blockchain 
technology and distributed ledger technology. Central bank digital currency technology 
will be used to finance businesses like accounts receivable financing, which will signifi-
cantly facilitate the financing of SMEs and bring new ideas for financial institutions to 
exclude the credit risk and information asymmetry risk existing in traditional accounts 
receivable financing, as well as reduce the losses brought to financial institutions by the 
occurrence of accounts receivable financing falsification. In order to assess the effects of 
each parameter on the process of financing receivables from financial institutions and 
SMEs, this paper uses game analysis to examine the dynamic evolution of central bank 
digital currency technology. It then draws the following conclusions: 
(1) Central bank digital currency technology can decrease the costs of credit collection 
for financial institutions, increase the convenience of financing transactions, and re-
move credit barriers in the traditional accounts receivable financing process. It can 
also strengthen the authenticity and sharing of logistics, capital flow, and infor-
mation flow, promote the transmission of core enterprise credit, and assist SMEs at 
multiple levels in obtaining a loan. 
(2) The costs of supervising capital flow may be seen in central bank digital currency 
technology costs. Central bank digital currency technology’s high costs are a signifi-
cant barrier to its adoption and promotion. However, as technology advances and 
the concept of central bank digital currency is gradually adopted, it will become more 
mature and less expensive, making it possible for more financial institutions and en-
terprises to adopt it. 
(3) Central bank digital currency technology has a specific technical threshold and ne-
cessitates a high level of enterprise digitization, so initial acceptance will typically be 
limited. As a result, it needs more industry promotion and popularization. In addi-
tion, because the supervision of the flow of funds must be safe, it is best to support 
the enactment of laws to prevent the leakage of information by SMEs. 
(4) Financial institutions are crucial in providing incentives for repayment and punish-
ing for non-repayment. In order to protect the interests of financial institutions, they 
can act as a deterrent to SMEs while guiding them to adhere to contracts and make 
payments on time. Financial institutions can also entice SMEs to participate by offer-
ing incentives that will result in a situation where everyone wins. 
There are still many further lines of inquiry that need to be researched in the future, 
especially in light of the limitations of this paper. First, new directions for future research 
could compare other supply chain financing models, such as the financing model for fu-
ture cargo rights, to understand the effects of various financing models on financial insti-
tutions, SMEs, and core enterprises. Second, central bank digital currency technology 
Figure 8. Simulation results chart for u1 = 510 u2 = 700.
6. Conclusions
A supply chain financial platform based on central bank digital currency will emerge
as more and more nations study and speed up the application process of central bank
digital currency, as well as the rapid development of financial technology like blockchain
technology and distributed ledger technology. Central bank digital currency technology
will be used to finance businesses like accounts receivable financing, which will significantly
facilitate the financing of SMEs and bring new ideas for financial institutions to exclude
the credit risk and information asymmetry risk existing in traditional accounts receivable
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 413
financing, as well as reduce the losses brought to financial institutions by the occurrence of
accounts receivable financing falsification. In order to assess the effects of each parameter
on the process of financing receivables from financial institutions and SMEs, this paper
uses game analysis to examine the dynamic evolution of central bank digital currency
technology. It then draws the following conclusions:
(1) Central bank digital currency technology can decrease the costs of credit collection for
financial institutions, increase the convenience of financing transactions, and remove
credit barriers in the traditional accounts receivable financing process. It can also
strengthen the authenticity and sharing of logistics, capital flow, and information flow,
promote the transmission of core enterprise credit, and assist SMEs at multiple levels
in obtaining a loan.
(2) The costs of supervising capital flow may be seen in central bank digital currency
technology costs. Central bank digital currency technology’s high costs are a signifi-
cant barrier to its adoption and promotion. However, as technology advances and the
concept of central bank digital currency is gradually adopted, it will become more
mature and less expensive, making it possible for more financial institutions and
enterprises to adopt it.
(3) Central bank digital currency technology has a specific technical threshold and ne-
cessitates a high level of enterprise digitization, so initial acceptance will typically be
limited. As a result, it needs more industry promotion and popularization. In addition,
because the supervision of the flow of funds must be safe, it is best to support the
enactment of laws to prevent the leakage of information by SMEs.
(4) Financial institutions are crucial in providing incentives for repayment and punishing
for non-repayment. In order to protect the interests of financial institutions, they
can act as a deterrent to SMEs while guiding them to adhere to contracts and make
payments on time. Financial institutions can also entice SMEs to participate by offering
incentives that will result in a situation where everyone wins.
There are still many further lines of inquiry that need to be researched in the future,
especially in light of the limitations of this paper. First, new directions for future research
could compare other supply chain financing models, such as the financing model for future
cargo rights, to understand the effects of various financing models on financial institutions,
SMEs, and core enterprises. Second, central bank digital currency technology leads to
current monetary technology; the new method may be used in future research to compare
different finance strategies. Third, it may take into account the collaboration and fraud of
both parties involved in the multiple games, including the cooperation and fraud of SMEs,
core enterprises, and financial institutions, as well as what steps should be taken to stop
the negative consequences.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, D.Y.; methodology, D.Y.; software, D.Y.; validation, D.Y.,
J.Q. and Q.Z.; formal analysis, D.Y.; investigation, D.Y.; resources, D.Y.; data curation, D.Y.; writing—
original draft preparation, D.Y.; writing—review and editing, D.Y. and J.Q.; visualization, D.Y.;
supervision, J.Q. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 414
References
1. Akram, U.; Fülöp, M.T.; Tiron-Tudor, A.; Topor, D.I.; Căpus, neanu, S. Impact of Digitalization on Customers’ Well-Being in
the Pandemic Period: Challenges and Opportunities for the Retail Industry. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 2021, 18, 7533.
[CrossRef]
2. Gelsomino, L.M.; Mangiaracina, R.; Perego, A.; Tumino, A. Supply Chain Finance: A Literature Review. Int. J. Phys. Distrib. Logist.
Manag. 2016, 13. [CrossRef]
3. Sun, R.; He, D.; Su, H. Evolutionary Game Analysis of Blockchain Technology Preventing Supply Chain Financial Risks. J. Theor.
Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16, 2824–2842. [CrossRef]
4. Liu, Z.; Qian, Q.; Hu, B.; Shang, W.-L.; Li, L.; Zhao, Y.; Zhao, Z.; Han, C. Government Regulation to Promote Coordinated
Emission Reduction among Enterprises in the Green Supply Chain Based on Evolutionary Game Analysis. Resour. Conserv. Recycl.
2022, 182, 106290. [CrossRef]
5. Zhou, J.; Deng, L.; Gibson, P. SMEs’ Changing Perspective on International Trade Credit Risk Management in China: A Cultural
Values Evolution Approach. Asia Pac. Bus. Rev. 2022, 28, 333–353. [CrossRef]
6. Lim, M.K.; Li, Y.; Wang, C.; Tseng, M.-L. A Literature Review of Blockchain Technology Applications in Supply Chains: A
Comprehensive Analysis of Themes, Methodologies and Industries. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2021, 154, 107133. [CrossRef]
7. Li, J.; Maiti, A.; Springer, M.; Gray, T. Blockchain for Supply Chain Quality Management: Challenges and Opportunities in
Context of Open Manufacturing and Industrial Internet of Things. Int. J. Comput. Integr. Manuf. 2020, 33, 1321–1355. [CrossRef]
8. Hirsch, B.; Nitzl, C.; Schoen, M. Interorganizational Trust and Agency Costs in Credit Relationships between Savings Banks and
SMEs. J. Bank. Financ. 2018, 97, 37–50. [CrossRef]
9. Jomthanachai, S.; Wong, W.-P.; Soh, K.-L.; Lim, C.-P. A Global Trade Supply Chain Vulnerability in COVID-19 Pandemic: An
Assessment Metric of Risk and Resilience-Based Efficiency of CoDEA Method. Res. Transp. Econ. 2022, 93, 101166. [CrossRef]
10. Gu, J.; Xia, X.; He, Y.; Xu, Z. An Approach to Evaluating the Spontaneous and Contagious Credit Risk for Supply Chain Enterprises
Based on Fuzzy Preference Relations. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2017, 106, 361–372. [CrossRef]
11. Zhou, Z.; Liu, Y.; Yu, H.; Chen, Q. Logistics Supply Chain Information Collaboration Based on FPGA and Internet of Things
System. Microprocess. Microsyst. 2021, 80, 103589. [CrossRef]
12. Zhang, W.; Yan, S.; Li, J.; Tian, X.; Yoshida, T. Credit Risk Prediction of SMEs in Supply Chain Finance by Fusing Demographic
and Behavioral Data. Transp. Res. Part E Logist. Transp. Rev. 2022, 158, 102611. [CrossRef]
13. Construction of the Credit Risk Indicator Evaluation System of Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises under Supply Chain Finance.
Available online: http://journal26.magtechjournal.com/Jwk3_kygl/EN/Y2020/V41/I4/209 (accessed on 14 July 2022).
14. Zhang, H.; Shi, Y.; Yang, X.; Zhou, R. A Firefly Algorithm Modified Support Vector Machine for the Credit Risk Assessment of
Supply Chain Finance. Res. Int. Bus. Financ. 2021, 58, 101482. [CrossRef]
15. Ozili, P.K. Central Bank Digital Currency Research around the World: A Review of Literature. J. Money Laund. Control, 2022;
ahead-of-print. [CrossRef]
16. Central Bank Digital Currencies: Motives, Economic Implications, and the Research Frontier | Annual Review of Economics.
Available online: https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/full/10.1146/annurev-economics-051420-020324 (accessed on 20 Decem-
ber 2022).
17. Esposito, C.; Ficco, M.; Gupta, B.B. Blockchain-Based Authentication and Authorization for Smart City Applications. Inf. Process.
Manag. 2021, 58, 102468. [CrossRef]
18. Danezis, G.; Meiklejohn, S. Centrally Banked Cryptocurrencies. arXiv 2015, arXiv:1505.06895.
19. Project Ubin: Central Bank Digital Money Using Distributed Ledger Technology. Available online: https://www.mas.gov.sg/
schemes-and-initiatives/Project-Ubin (accessed on 20 December 2022).
20. Peters, M.A.; Green, B.; Yang, H. (Melissa) Cryptocurrencies, China’s Sovereign Digital Currency (DCEP) and the US Dollar
System. Educ. Philos. Theory 2022, 54, 1713–1719. [CrossRef]
21. Sinelnikova-Muryleva, E. Central Banks Retail Digital Currencies: Risks and Prospects of Emission. Monit. Russ. Econ. Outlook.
Trends Chall. Socio-Econ. Development. Mosc. 2020, 13, 7–11.
22. Fegatelli, P. A Central Bank Digital Currency in a Heterogeneous Monetary Union: Managing the Effects on the Bank Lending
Channel. J. Macroecon. 2022, 71, 103392. [CrossRef]
23. Chang, S.E.; Chen, Y.-C.; Lu, M.-F. Supply Chain Re-Engineering Using Blockchain Technology: A Case of Smart Contract Based
Tracking Process. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Change 2019, 144, 1–11. [CrossRef]
24. Guo, L.; Chen, J.; Li, S.; Li, Y.; Lu, J. A Blockchain and IoT Based Lightweight Framework for Enabling Information Transparency
in Supply Chain Finance. Digit. Commun. Netw. 2022, 8, 576–587. [CrossRef]
25. Saberi, S.; Kouhizadeh, M.; Sarkis, J.; Shen, L. Blockchain Technology and Its Relationships to Sustainable Supply Chain
Management. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2019, 57, 2117–2135. [CrossRef]
26. Jiang, R.; Kang, Y.; Liu, Y.; Liang, Z.; Duan, Y.; Sun, Y.; Liu, J. A Trust Transitivity Model of Small and Medium-Sized Manufacturing
Enterprises under Blockchain-Based Supply Chain Finance. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2022, 247, 108469. [CrossRef]
27. Chen, S.; Du, J.; He, W.; Siponen, M. Supply Chain Finance Platform Evaluation Based on Acceptability Analysis. Int. J. Prod.
Econ. 2022, 243, 108350. [CrossRef]
28. Du, M.; Chen, Q.; Xiao, J.; Yang, H.; Ma, X. Supply Chain Finance Innovation Using Blockchain. IEEE Trans. Eng. Manag. 2020, 67,
1045–1058. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/ijerph18147533
http://doi.org/10.1108/IJPDLM-08-2014-0173
http://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer16070155
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.resconrec.2022.106290
http://doi.org/10.1080/13602381.2020.1853936
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2021.107133
http://doi.org/10.1080/0951192X.2020.1815853
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbankfin.2018.09.017
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.retrec.2021.101166
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2017.02.012
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.micpro.2020.103589
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2022.102611
http://journal26.magtechjournal.com/Jwk3_kygl/EN/Y2020/V41/I4/209
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ribaf.2021.101482
http://doi.org/10.1108/JMLC-11-2021-0126
https://www.annualreviews.org/doi/full/10.1146/annurev-economics-051420-020324
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2020.102468
https://www.mas.gov.sg/schemes-and-initiatives/Project-Ubin
https://www.mas.gov.sg/schemes-and-initiatives/Project-Ubin
http://doi.org/10.1080/00131857.2020.1801146
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmacro.2021.103392
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.techfore.2019.03.015
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.dcan.2022.03.020
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2022.108469
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2021.108350
http://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2020.2971858
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2023, 18 415
29. Huijun, H.; Jing, Z. Recourse Accounts Receivable Factoring Financing Ratio Research Based on Multinational Supply Chain. In
Proceedings of the 2016 13th International Conference on Service Systems and Service Management (ICSSSM), Kunming, China,
24–26 June 2016; pp. 1–4.
30. Yao, Q. A Systematic Framework to Understand Central Bank Digital Currency. Sci. China Inf. Sci. 2018, 61, 033101. [CrossRef]
31. Stiglitz, J.E. Macro-Economic Management in an Electronic Credit/Financial System. Natl. Bur. Econ. Res. 2017. [CrossRef]
32. Fülöp, M.T.; Topor, D.I.; Ionescu, C.A.; Căpus, neanu, S.; Breaz, T.O.; Stanescu, S.G. Fintech Accounting and Industry 4.0:
Future-Proofing or Threats to the Accounting Profession? J. Bus. Econ. Manag. 2022, 23, 997–1015. [CrossRef]
33. Allen, F.; Gu, X.; Jagtiani, J. Fintech, Cryptocurrencies, and CBDC: Financial Structural Transformation in China. J. Int. Money
Financ. 2022, 124, 102625. [CrossRef]
34. Zhao, Z.; Chen, D.; Wang, L.; Han, C. Credit Risk Diffusion in Supply Chain Finance: A Complex Networks Perspective.
Sustainability 2018, 10, 4608. [CrossRef]
35. Han, K.-M.; Park, S.W.; Lee, S. Anti-Fraud in International Supply Chain Finance: Focusing on Moneual Case. J. Korea Trade 2020,
24, 59–81. [CrossRef]
36. Zou, W.; Lo, D.; Kochhar, P.S.; Le, X.-B.D.; Xia, X.; Feng, Y.; Chen, Z.; Xu, B. Smart Contract Development: Challenges and
Opportunities. IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. 2021, 47, 2084–2106. [CrossRef]
37. Zhang, B.; Ye, Y.; Yue, X. Evolutionary Strategies of Supply Chain Finance From the Perspective of a Return Policy. IEEE Access
2019, 7, 110761–110769. [CrossRef]
38. Cheng, Y.; Wu, D.D.; Olson, D.L.; Dolgui, A. Financing the Newsvendor with Preferential Credit: Bank vs. Manufacturer. Int. J.
Prod. Res. 2021, 59, 4228–4247. [CrossRef]
39. Figorilli, S.; Antonucci, F.; Costa, C.; Pallottino, F.; Raso, L.; Castiglione, M.; Pinci, E.; Del Vecchio, D.; Colle, G.; Proto, A.R.; et al.
A Blockchain Implementation Prototype for the Electronic Open Source Traceability of Wood along the Whole Supply Chain.
Sensors 2018, 18, 3133. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://doi.org/10.1007/s11432-017-9294-5
http://doi.org/10.3386/w23032
http://doi.org/10.3846/jbem.2022.17695
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jimonfin.2022.102625
http://doi.org/10.3390/su10124608
http://doi.org/10.35611/jkt.2020.24.1.59
http://doi.org/10.1109/TSE.2019.2942301
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2934514
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2020.1759839
http://doi.org/10.3390/s18093133
	Introduction 
	Literature Review 
	Supply Chain Finance 
	Central Bank Digital Currency 
	Contribution to the Literature 
	Accounts Receivable Financing Issues 
	Accounts Receivable Financing 
	Accounts Receivable Financing Using Central Bank Digital Currency Technology 
	Digital Currency Technology 
	Blockchain Technology 
	Simplified Accounts Receivable Financing and Comments 
	Descriptions of the Parameters and Model Presumptions 
	Descriptions of the Parameters 
	Model Presumptions 
	Evolutionary Game Analysis 
	Financial Institutions and SMEs’ Strategic Stability Analyses 
	Equilibrium Point Stability Analysis 
	Discussion 
	Parameters Analysis 
	Simulation Analysis 
	Conclusions 
	References