A Robust Incentive Consensus Propagation Design for Consortium-Chain Based Wireless Network
A Robust Incentive Consensus Propagation Design
for Consortium-chain Based Wireless Network
Ning Zhao1,2, Hao Wu1, Lifu Wang2, Xiaofang Sun1,2
1. State Key Laboratory of Rail Traffic Control and Safety, Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China
2. School of Electronic and Information Engineering,Beijing Jiaotong University, Beijing 100044, China
Email:{n zhao, hwu, lifu wanghwu, xiaofangsun}@bjtu.edu.cn
Abstract—In the consortium-chain based wireless networks,
edge service providers (ESPs) can act as pre-selected miners to
maintain the blockchain network and obtained reward from the
blockchain user. To make the network more secure, ESPs can
recruit nearby mobile devices (NMDs) as lightweight verifiers
during the block propagation process. However, with the in-
creasing of verifiers, the propagation overhead is also increasing.
Therefore, there exists a trade-off between the recruit ratios
of ESPs and the transaction fee of blockchain user. In this
paper, we propose a consortium-chain based wireless network
architecture, and investigate the trade-off under the circumstance
that some NMDs maybe crashed. The problem can be formulated
as a two-stage robust Stackelberg game (RSG) approach. We
provide the theoretical analysis of the existence and uniqueness
of the Nash equilibrium point, and use the Lagrange dual
decomposition method (LDDM) to obtain the Nash equilibrium
point. Numerical results demonstrate that the proposed RSG
approach outperforms other schemes in efficiency and robustness
during the block propagation process.
Index Terms—Consortium blockchain, consensus propagation,
verification, robust Stackelberg game.
I. INTRODUCTION
In traditional wireless networks, centralized architecture
is exposed to several disadvantages like extra cost, hard
management, and low scalability. Recently, researchers are
seeking decentralized technologies to solve the disadvantages
of the traditional wireless networks [1]. Blockchain is such a
promising decentralized technology can enhance the network
security and scalability. Blockchain is essentially a distributed
ledger, and the key novelty of blockchain is its ability to
enable sharing of a common ledger amongst trustless (and
anonymous in some cases) parties using distributed consensus
protocols and cryptographic puzzles [2]. Transactions or other
records are stored in the so-called blocks, and different blocks
are chained by hash pointers which provide tamper-proof,
traceability and other security properties.
Generally speaking, blockchain-based networks can be di-
vided into three categories: public-chain network, private-
chain network, and consortium-chain network. In the public-
chain network, all users can participate in the network without
registration and authentication, and the distributed ledger is
maintained by a set of miners, like Bitcoin networks [3]. Time-
consuming and computation-consuming consensus mecha-
nisms are deployed in the public-chain network, which wastes
lots of resources. In the private-chain network, only strictly
filtered authorized users can participate in the networks, in
which all users are regarded as highly trustworthy entities
and cannot be compromised [4]. Compromised users indicate
that users can disseminate fake messages. In the private-chain
network, only the situation of crashed users are taken into
account. However, under the wireless circumstance, some de-
vices are resource-limited, in addition we cannot well control
the identity of all the participants. Therefore, the public-chain
and private-chain networks are both not suitable to be deployed
in the wireless network. The consortium-chain network is a
combination of the two types of blockchain networks above,
in which only authorized users can participate in the networks
and take a situation of compromised users into account. In
addition, with mild cost, excellent scalability, low latency, and
other better security properties, the consortium-chain network
is suitable to be deployed in the wireless network [5].
In the consortium-chain network, the distributed ledger is
maintained by a group of pre-selected miners. A popular
consensus algorithm Proof-of-Stake (PoS) is adopted in such
a network that requires fewer cost and computation resources
during the mining competition process and verification process
[6]. There are also other two typical consensus mechanisms in
the traditional consortium-chain network: Practical Byzantine
Fault Tolerance (PBFT) and RAFT [5]. RAFT can only work
in a highly credible environment, which restricts its application
scenario. The fault tolerance of PBFT is 1/3, compared with
which, the fault tolerance of PoS based consortium-chain is
1/2, which can work in a more risky environment. Therefore,
we deploy the PoS-based consortium chain in the wireless net-
work. The consortium-chain network is suitable to be applied
in the wireless networks: edge service providers (ESPs) work
as pre-selected miners for their powerful computation ability
and stable performance. ESPs work at the edge of the network,
like the roadside unit equipped with a high-performance server,
which could also provide computation offloading or other
services for the nearby mobile devices.
The architecture of the consortium-chain based wireless net-
work is illustrated in Fig. 1. The blockchain user sends transac-
tions to ESPs and also publishes transaction fee for the ESPs.
However, due to the limited number of ESPs, ESPs should
recruit nearby mobile devices (NMDs) as lightweight verifiers.
More verifiers (including ESPs and NMDs) are encouraged
to participate in the consensus propagation process to avoid
978-1-7281-7440-2/20/$31.00 ©2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:36:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
ESP 1
ESP 2
ESP 3
Mobile device with blockchain client
Edge computing service provider (ESP)
Blockchain ledger
Update ledger
Recruit mobile devices
Fig. 1. The architecture of consortium-chain based wireless network.
centralized verification and decrease the impact of malicious
verifiers. However, with the increasing number of verifiers,
the block transmission time and communication overhead
will increase which deteriorates the consensus propagation
performance. In addition, the blockchain user’s transaction fee
will be shared among the ESPs according to their recruit ratios.
The authors investigated the trade-off between the transac-
tion fee of blockchain users and recruit ratios of pre-selected
miners through the Stackelberg game approach, the backward
induction was used to obtain the Nash equilibrium point [7],
[8]. The system assumption regulated that NMDs are as stable
as ESPs [7], however, we should consider that NMDs are not
stable as ESPs because they are more easily to be crashed or
compromised in the wireless network. Because in the wireless
network, NMDs are exposed to the public environment, which
means more attacks that NMDs may suffer.
To address these inadequacies, we formulate the trade-off
problem as a robust Stackelberg game (RSG) and obtain the
Nash equilibrium points through variational inequality. The
main contributions of this paper are:
1) A consortium-chain based wireless network architec-
ture is proposed, and the utility functions of ESPs
and blockchain user are modeled more practically by
considering the fault recruit ratio of ESPs and quadratic
communication overhead
2) To achieve the best trade-off between the recruit ratios of
ESPs and transaction fee of the blockchain user, a RSG
approach is proposed and proved to be a joint convexity
generalized Nash equilibrium problem (GNEP)
3) The existence and uniqueness of the Nash equilibrium
points are proved theoretically through variational in-
equality, and the simulation results demonstrate the
efficiency and robustness of the RSG approach.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM DEFINITION
There are four parts in the system: ESPs (pre-selected
miners), NMDs (lightweight verifiers), fault NMDs (fault
verifiers), and blockchain user. An illustration of the whole
block propagation process is shown in Fig. 2. In the request
phase, the blockchain user generates transactions, send them
to the ESPs. The transaction fee published by blockchain user
is also announced to the ESPs. In the mining phase, once
receiving the transactions, ESPs try to solve the cryptographic
problem based on their owing stakes in order to generate
a valid block [9]. The winning probability ESP during the
mining competition process is determined by its owning stake,
i.e., holding more stakes means easier to win. The stakes can
be evaluated by the trust value, online time, and other factors.
Once one of the ESPs solved the cryptographic problem
successfully, it encapsulates the transactions into a block and
broadcast the mined block to other ESPs. In the propagation
phase, in order to make verification and propagation more
secure, ESPs can recruit NMDs nearby. Then, ESPs broadcast
the mined block to the corresponding NMDs. In the commit
and reply phases, NMDs and ESPs will send the mined
blocks to each other to ensure that the mined block has been
recognized by most verifiers.
In the system, we assume the sum number of NMDs is
fixed [7]. ESPs share the transaction fee published by the
blockchain user, and the transaction fee that each ESP obtained
will depend on its recruit ratio of employing NMDs. A NMD
cannot be twice-recruited, namely, the sum of recruit ratios
of all ESPs cannot exceed 1. It’s important to note that it is
not the more NMDs the better: with the increasing number
of NMDs, the communication overhead will largely increase
which deteriorates the consensus performance [10].
According to the analysis above, the profit of an ESP should
include four aspects:
1) Reward from the system once an ESP mined a valid
block during the mining competition process
2) Electricity cost and other costs while mining
3) Transaction fee given by blockchain user according to
its verification contribution, i.e., recruit ratio
4) Propagation overhead during the propagation process.
Also, the profit of the blockchain user should include two
aspects:
1) Satisfaction parameter which depends on propagation
time and verification time
2) The published transaction fee for ESPs.
The relationship between the blockchain user and ESPs
can be formulated as a two-stage Stackelberg game. The
blockchain user publishes the transaction fee firstly, which
influences the recruit ratio decisions of ESPs for they want
to maximize their own profit. In return, the recruit ratio deci-
sions of ESPs influence the transaction fee of the blockchain
user. However, not all the NMDs can work stable, therefore,
we should take a condition that a few NMDs cannot work
normally into account. Based on this situation, a RSG is es-
tablished with the consideration of fault occurrence of NMDs.
In the next section, we formulate the utility functions of
blockchain user and ESPs, and establish RSG, then propose
an algorithm to obtain the equilibrium point.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:36:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
ESP 1
ESP n
NMD 1
NMD n (Fault)
Blockchain user
ReplyRequest Mining Propagation Commit 
.
.
.
.
.
.
Fig. 2. An illustration of block propagation process.
III. PROBLEM FORMULATION AND ALGORITHM DESIGN
A. Problem Formulation
We use a set M = {m1,m2, . . . ,mk} to represent ESPs
whose total number is k and cardinality is |M |. The strategy
set of all the ESPs are represented as R = {r1, r2, . . . , rk},
in which ri represents the recruit ratio of the ESP i and r-i
represents the recruit ratio strategy exclude the ESP i. The
transaction fee of the blockchain user s is p, and the utility
function of the ESP i and blockchain user s are represented
as U i
m and Us respectively. Here, the RSG can be expressed
as < {M
∪
s}, {R, p}, {U i
m, Us} >, where {M
∪
s} is the
set of all the players in RSG, {R, p} is all players’ strategies,
{U i
m, Us} is all players’ utility functions.
During the formulation of the utility function of the ESPs,
compared with [7], we improve the model that the NMDs
cannot be twice recruited and the communication overhead is
quadratic to the number of verifiers. Additionally, we consider
that the NMDs might be compromised or crashed. During the
formulation of the utility of the blockchain user, we use the
similar utility function model with [7].
The difficulty of the ESP i solving the cryptographic prob-
lem is denoted as
Pi = τe−λzT , (1)
where τ is the ratio between the individual stake and total
stakes in the consortium-chain network. The stake can be
effected by multi factors, like online time and history transac-
tion numbers. We use a random value e−λzT to represent the
probability that an ESP solves the cryptographic problem, in
which z is a given network delay factor and T is the number
of transactions in the mined block. The random value follows
the Poisson process with the mean value of λ = 1/600 [7].
According to the profit analysis in Section II, the utility
function of the ESP i can be formulated as:
U i
m(ri, r-i, p) =(1− η)RPi + ηp(ri −∆i)
− α(|J |(ri −∆i))
2 − ci,
(2)
where R is the fixed reward given by system once ESP i
successfully solve the cryptographic problem; |J | is the sum
number of available recruited NMDs; η is a preset balance
parameter to balance rewards from system and blockchain user
respectively; ci is the electricity cost for mining and running
blockchain clients; α is the average communication overhead
coefficient. Since the communication overhead complexity is
O(n2) (n is the number of verifiers) according to [10], which
means the communication overhead is quadratic relation with
the total number of verifiers. In addition, the NMDs that each
ESP recruit cannot overlap, which means
∑
i∈M ri ≤ 1.
Since that not all the NMDs can operate normally, we
assume ∆i is the worst-case recruit fault occurrence of ESP
i. We assume the range of ∆i is
0 ≤ ∆i < ri. (3)
The utility function of blockchain user is consisted by two
parts [11], i.e., satisfaction function and and transaction fee,
as follows
Us(R, p) = f [υ1(r1), υ2(r2), . . . , υi(ri)]− p. (4)
The satisfaction function of the blockchain user is deter-
mined by the block propagation time. In Eqn. (4), υi(ri) is
the block propagation time through ESP i, a higher ri means a
higher propagation time through ESP i. Similar to [12], we set
two conditions here, the first is f [υ1(r1), υ1(r2), . . . , υi(ri)] is
strictly concave and monotonically increasing on each variable
r1, r2, . . . , ri, the second is f [υ1(0), υ2(0), . . . , υi(0)] = 0,
which is more realistic because when no ESP wants to
propagate the block from the blockchain user, the satisfaction
of the blockchain user is certainly zero.
ESPs have different propagation time for the same block
due to the different recruit ratios of ESPs. Indeed, the block
propagation time of each ESP is determined by two parts, i.e.,
block verification time υV
i and transmission delay υT
i . The
verification time and transmission time are both determined
by the recruit ratios.
Refer to [11], the propagation time of ESP i can be
represented as
υi(ri) = υV
i + υT
i =
bri|J |
δk1
+ k2ri|J |b, (5)
where k1 and k2 are both system coefficients and greater
than 0; b is the mined block size and; δ is the average
communication link capacity between ESPs and NMDs. ri|J|
k1
reflects the network scale, and k2ri|J | is determined by the
average verification speed of verifiers and network scale. With
the increasing of verifiers, the network can be more secure, but
the block propagation time will also become larger because
the ESPs should communicate with more NMDs. Therefore,
to balance the network security with the block propagation
time, a so-called security-delay metric si is introduced [13],
and we rewrite Eqn. (4) as follows
Us(si, p) = f [s1, s2, . . . , si]− p, (6)
and the security-delay metric is defined as
si =
m1k1δTmax
bm2(1 + k1k2δ)
(ri|J |)q−1, (7)
where m1,m2 are system coefficients and both greater than
0; Tmax is also a predefined parameter which represents the
maximum propagation toleration time of blockchain user; q
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:36:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
is a preset parameter referred by [13] to denote the network
scale. In order to be consistent with [13], here we set q = 2.
In the future, we may consider the channel fading with the
increasing of distance.
Refer to [13], we assume
f [s1, s2, ..., sk] = θlog(1 +
k∑
i
si), (8)
where θ is a preset parameter. Then the utility function of the
blockchain user can be expressed as
Us(si, p) = θlog(1 +
k∑
i
si)− p. (9)
It is obviously that Us(si, p) is a concave function respect to
p and satisfies our assumptions.
Combine the utility functions of blockchain user and ESPs
together, the robust Stackelberg game can be formulated as
Follower :min − U i
m(ri, r-i, p),
s.t. 0 ≤
∑
i∈M
ri ≤ 1,
0 ≤ ri ≤ 1.
Leader :max Us(si, p),
s.t. pmin ≤ p.
(10)
Follower represents each ESP, and leader represents the
blockchain user. pmin is the minimum transaction fee of
blockchain user, if transaction fee p is too low, it cannot afford
the basic cost of the ESPs, e.g., electricity cost.
B. Algorithm Design
The optimization problem is to decide how many NMDs that
an ESP should recruit which is the scope of integer program-
ming. Whereas this assumption would make the problem much
more difficult to solve. The gap between optimal solutions of
integer problem and fraction results is very small. Therefore,
we relax the strategy variables to be continuous, which is a
slack of the optimization problem, i.e., ri can get an arbitrary
value between 0 and 1.
The aim of the RSG is to reach the robust Stackelberg
equilibrium, in which point both the ESPs and blockchain
users have no incentive to deviate. Therefore, we divide the
optimization problem into a suboptimal independent solution
through the Lagrange dual decomposition method (LDDM).
The Lagrangian function is expressed as follows:
Li(ri, r-i, p) = U i
m + λi(ri − 1) + νi(
∑
(ri − 1)), (11)
where λi and νi are Lagrangian dual variables of ESP i.
Through differentiating
∂Li(ri, r-i, p)
∂ri
= 0, (12)
we can obtain the Lagrangian duality function L(r∗i , r-i, p)
w.r.t. ri, whose
r∗i =
ηp− (λi + νi)
2α|J |2
+∆i. (13)
Algorithm 1 Recruit Ratio Employing Algorithm
1: Initialize λ, ν, β, ω, set q = 0.
Optimal Design for Recruit Ratio
2: For i=1 to k, do
3: Given pq , the ESP i compute r∗i,q as
r∗i,q =
ηpq−(λi,q+νi,q)
2α|J|2 +∆i.
4: Updating the dual variables:
λi,q+1 = [λi,q + ω(ri − 1)]+,
νi,q+1 = [νi,q + β(
∑
(ri − 1))]+,
where ω > 0 and β > 0 are steps for updating procedure.
Optimal Design for Transaction Fee
5: The blockchain user calculate pq+1 as
p∗q+1 = θ+
∑
(λi,q+νi,q)
kn − 2α|J|2
∑
∆i
kn − 2α|J|2
m1k1δTmax
bm2(1+k1k2δ)
|J|kn
.
6: Set q=q+1, repeat 2-6 until convergence.
Then, we substitute λi and νi through duality ascent
λi+1 = λi + ω(ri − 1),
νi+1 = νi + β(
∑
(ri − 1)).
(14)
The blockchain user will adjust the transaction fee con-
stantly. Based on our assumption, i.e., the utility function of
the blockchain user is strictly concave. To maximize Eqn. (9),
we substitute r∗i into Eqn. (9), and calculate the first derivation
w.r.t. p. The adjusted transaction fee is
p∗ =θ +
∑
(λi + νi)
kn
− 2α|J |2
∑
∆i
kn
− 2α|J |2
m1k1δTmax
bm2(1+k1k2δ)
|J |kn
.
(15)
The adjusted transaction fee p∗ acts as feedback to the ESPs
who will adjust their recruit ratios later. In the next iteration,
ESPs and blockchain user will adjust their strategies using the
same actions as mentioned above. The iteration procedures
will end until the algorithm is convergence. The details of the
recruit ratio employing algorithm are shown in Algorithm 1.
IV. NASH EQUILIBRIUM POINT ANALYSIS
In this section, we will prove:
1) RSG is a generalized Nash equilibrium problem and
satisfies the Convexity Assumptions
2) Existence and uniqueness of the Nash equilibrium point.
Theorem 1: The RSG is jointly convex GNEP.
Refer to literature [14], [15], RSG is the scope of GNEP
and satisfies the Convexity Assumptions.
In GNEP, for a fixed transaction fee from the blockchain
user, each ESP’s strategy depends on the rival ESPs strate-
gies, i.e., each ESPs strategy will influence the other ESPs’
strategies, none of ESP can change strategy unilaterally. From
Eqn. (10) we know, the constraint of each ESPs maximization
problem involves other players variables.
The utility functions of the ESP and blockchain user are
both concave on its variables, meanwhile, the strategy sets are
convex. Although the constraint of each ESPs maximization
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:36:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
*
TABLE I
KEY PARAMETERS OF SIMULATION EXPERIMENTS
Parameters Values
m1,m2, k1, k2, η 0.5
Preset parameter θ 1000
Average communication overhead coefficient α 0.1
Electricity cost and other costs ci 1
System reward R 1000 [7]
Number of available recruited NMDs |J | 100
Tolerant block propagation time Tmax 10 ms
Average communication link capacity δ 0.5 Mbps
A mined block of size b 100 KB [13]
Minimum transaction fee pmin 100
problem involves the other players strategy, the constraint of
each problem is the same for all the ESPs. Therefore, this
special class of GNEP is jointly convex GNEP [14], [15].
Theorem 2: There exists a unique GNEP point for the
jointly convex GNEP.
From the derivation from Theorem 1, RSG is the scope
of jointly convex GNEP. In order to prove the existence
and uniqueness of the Nash equilibrium point, we firstly
assume the transaction fee p is fixed. Each ESP maximizes
its own profit by solving the jointly convex GNEP. The
solution of the jointly convex GNEP is a variational inequality
[16]. We define a variational inequality V I(X,F ), where
F = −[∇riU
m
i (ri, )
k
i=1] and Z := r1 × . . . rk is the joint
convex solution set, the solution of V I(X,F ) is at least one
equilibrium point.
According to literature [14], we can obtain
F =

−ηp+ 2α|M |2(r1 −∆1)
−ηp+ 2α|M |2(r2 −∆2)
...
−ηp+ 2α|M |2(ri −∆i)
 (16)
whose Jacobian is
JF =

b11 0 · · · 0
0 b22 · · · 0
...
...
. . .
...
0 0 · · · bkk
 (17)
where bii,i∈M = 2α|J |2 > 0 which means all its diagonal
elements are over zero, i.e., all its eigenvalues are positive.
Therefore, JF is a positive definite matrix, and F is strictly
monotone. The solution of VI is unique and is also the unique
equilibrium point of the joint convex GNEP which have been
proved in [16]. After setting the recruit ratios of ESPs, the
blockchain user can adjust its transaction fee in response,
which will achieve the global optimal solution of the RSG
through iterations.
V. EVALUATION ANALYSIS
We simulate our experiments on the MATLAB and the key
parameters are summarized in Table I. The initial transaction
fee of the blockchain user is 300. In the simulation, we set the
number of ESPs to be 5. The initial recruit ratio of ESPs is
[0.1, 0.15, 0.2, 0.25, 0.3]. The uncertainty degree of each ESP
Iteration number
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
R
e
c
r
u
it
r
a
t
io
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
ESP1
ESP2
ESP3
ESP4
ESP5
Fig. 3. Recruit ratios of ESPs versus the iteration number.
Iteration number
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
T
r
a
n
s
a
c
t
io
n
fe
e
o
f
b
lo
c
k
c
h
a
in
u
s
e
r
100
200
300
400
500
600
Iterated transaction fee
Fig. 4. Transaction fee of the blockchain user versus the iteration number.
is set to be 0.3 in Fig. 1-3. The uncertainty degrees means the
worst-case fault recruit ratio of each ESP, for example, if the
recruit ratio of an ESP is 0.6 under the uncertainty degree 0.3,
the worst-case fault recruit ratio is 0.18.
Fig. 3 illustrates the convergence of recruit ratios of the
RSG approach, and the recruit ratio of each ESP trends to
be convergence at about 33 − 35 iterations. After that, none
of ESPs will change its strategy unilaterally to pursue the
maximization of profit. ESP 5 recruits the most NMDs at
the beginning, whereas its recruit ratio decreases for the high
propagation overhead. Although ESP1 holds the minimum
recruit ratio at the beginning, whereas its recruit ratio increases
for recruiting more NMDs can obtain more transaction fee
from the blockchain user. The convergence iteration number
also reflects the convergence speed is fast.
Fig. 4 illustrates the relationship between the transaction
fee of the blockchain user with the iteration number. The
transaction fee proves to be stable when the algorithm is
almost convergence. At the iteration number 2− 3, the recruit
ratios of ESPs are all very small, so the blockchain user should
publish more transaction fee to incentive more verifiers to
participate in the propagation process. However, once more
verifiers participate in the propagation process, the blockchain
user should decrease the transaction fee for the consideration
of the propagation overhead.
Fig. 5 illustrates the relationship between the utility of the
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:36:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Iteration number
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
U
t
il
it
y
o
f
b
lo
c
k
c
h
a
in
u
s
e
r
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
Iterated utility of blockchain user
Fig. 5. Utility of the blockchain user versus the iteration number.
Uncertainty degree
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
A
v
e
r
a
g
e
u
t
il
it
y
o
f
E
S
P
s
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
RSG approach
ESPs with the same recruit ratio
ESPs with the initial recruit ratio
Fig. 6. Average utility of ESPs versus uncertainty degrees.
blockchain user with the iteration number. At the iteration
number 2−3, the transaction fee of the blockchain user is very
high, the utility of the blockchain user is minus zero. With the
transaction fee decreases, the utility of the blockchain rises.
The utility of the blockchain user considers the propagation
overhead and the number of verifiers together, and achieves a
balance when the algorithm is convergence.
In Fig. 6, we set six uncertainty degrees to validate with
a comparison of three schemes: RSG approach, ESPs with
the same recruit ratio, and ESPs with the initial recruit ratio.
ESPs with the same recruit ratio means the recruit ratio is
the same among all ESPs, here is [0.2, 0.2, 0.2, 0.2, 0.2]. ESPs
with the initial recruit ratio means the recruit ratio of each
ESP is [0.1, 0.15, 0.2, 0.25, 0.3], and will never change. The
blue line is the RSG approach, which outperforms the other
two schemes under arbitrary uncertainty degree, which shows
robustness and efficiency.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we proposed a consortium-chain based wire-
less network architecture. Under this architecture, we inves-
tigated the trade-off between the recruit ratios of ESPs and
the transaction fee of blockchain user when some lightweight
verifiers (i.e., NMDs) are crashed. We used RSG approach
to achieve the best trade-off and theoretically proved the
existence and uniqueness of the Nash equilibrium point. We
analyzed the convergence of RSG approach, the transaction
fee and utility of the blockchain user versus the number of
iteration number. We also compared the RSG approach with
the other two schemes: all ESPs hold the same recruit ratio
and hold the initial recruit ratio. The numerical results demon-
strated the efficiency and robustness of the RSG approach
during the block propagation process, which seeks a balance
between the propagation overhead and network security.
VII. ACKNOWLEDGE
This work was supported by the State Key Laboratory of
Rail Traffic Control and Safety, Beijing Jiaotong University
(Contract No. RCS2019ZT006), and the Fundamental Re-
search Funds for the Central Universities (No.2017JBM312).
REFERENCES
[1] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. M. Leung, “Resource allocation
for video transcoding and delivery based on mobile edge computing
and blockchain,” in 2018 IEEE Global Communications Conference
(GLOBECOM), pp. 1–6, Dec. 2018.
[2] Z. Xiong, S. Feng, W. Wang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han,
“Cloud/fog computing resource management and pricing for blockchain
networks,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, pp. 1–1, Sep. 2018.
[3] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Con-
sulted, 2008.
[4] A. Kosba, A. Miller, E. Shi, Z. Wen, and C. Papamanthou, “Hawk:
The blockchain model of cryptography and privacy-preserving smart
contracts,” in 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
pp. 839–858, May 2016.
[5] W. Wang, D. T. Hoang, P. Hu, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, P. Wang, Y. Wen,
and D. I. Kim, “A survey on consensus mechanisms and mining strategy
management in blockchain networks,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 22328–
22370, 2019.
[6] K. Sunny and S. Nadal, “Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with
proof-of-stake,” Aug. 2012.
[7] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, P. Wang, D. Ye, and D. I. Kim, “In-
centivizing consensus propagation in Proof-of-Stake based consortium
Blockchain networks,” IEEE Wireless Commun. Lett., Aug. 2018.
[8] Z. Xiong, S. Feng, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han, “Edge comput-
ing resource management and pricing for mobile blockchain,” ArXiv,
vol. abs/1710.01567, 2017.
[9] Z. Yang, K. Yang, L. Lei, K. Zheng, and V. C. M. Leung, “Blockchain-
based decentralized trust management in vehicular networks,” IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, pp. 1–1, May 2018.
[10] B. L. M.Castro, Practical byzantine fault tolerance. Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, 2000.
[11] X. Liu, W. Wang, D. Niyato, N. Zhao, and P. Wang, “Evolutionary
game for mining pool selection in blockchain networks,” IEEE Wireless
Communications Letters, vol. 7, pp. 760–763, Oct. 2018.
[12] D. Yang, G. Xue, X. Fang, and J. Tang, “Incentive mechanisms for
crowdsensing: Crowdsourcing with smartphones,” IEEE/ACM Transac-
tions on Networking, vol. 24, pp. 1732–1744, Jun. 2016.
[13] C. Decker and R. Wattenhofer, “Information propagation in the Bitcoin
network,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. on P2P, pp. 1–10, 2013.
[14] J. Wang, M. Peng, S. Jin, and C. Zhao, “A generalized Nash equilibrium
approach for robust cognitive radio networks via generalized variational
inequalities,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 13, pp. 3701–3714,
Jul. 2014.
[15] H. yang, X. Xie, and T. Vasilakos, “Non-cooperative and cooperative
optimization of electric vehicles charging under demand uncertainty: A
robust stackelberg game,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 65, no. 3,
pp. 1043–1058, 2016.
[16] D. Ardagna, B. Panicucci, and M. Passacantando, “Generalized Nash
equilibria for the service provisioning problem in cloud systems,” IEEE
Transactions on Services Computing, vol. 6, pp. 429–442, Oct. 2013.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:36:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.