Blockchain Traceability Adoption in Agricultural Supply Chain Coordination: An Evolutionary Game Analysis
Citation: Zheng, Y.; Xu, Y.; Qiu, Z.
Blockchain Traceability Adoption in
Agricultural Supply Chain
Coordination: An Evolutionary
Game Analysis. Agriculture 2023, 13,
184. https://doi.org/10.3390/
agriculture13010184
Academic Editor: Yasuo Ohe
Received: 21 December 2022
Revised: 7 January 2023
Accepted: 10 January 2023
Published: 11 January 2023
Copyright: © 2023 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
agriculture
Article
Blockchain Traceability Adoption in Agricultural Supply Chain
Coordination: An Evolutionary Game Analysis
Yi Zheng 1, Yaoqun Xu 2,* and Zeguo Qiu 1
1 School of Computer and Information Engineering, Harbin University of Commerce, Harbin 150028, China
2 Institute of Systems Engineering, Harbin University of Commerce, Harbin 150028, China
* Correspondence: xuyq@hrbcu.edu.cn
Abstract: Blockchain technology has brought about profound revolutions in supply chain manage-
ment. Notably, in the agricultural sector, blockchain-based traceability has become an essential tool
to maintain the safety and quality of farm commodities. However, the implementation of blockchain
technology in agricultural traceability is not prevalent. In this paper, mathematical modeling and sim-
ulation methods were used to investigate the decision making regarding the adoption of blockchain
traceability in agriculture, which comprises producers, processors, and governments. This paper
provides further analysis of the optimal blockchain-based traceability strategies of the members of
the agricultural product supply chain in different scenarios. The results reveal the following: (1) Pro-
ducers and processors should manage the traceability costs for adopting blockchains to improve their
brand image and gain more benefits. (2) The government should encourage supply chain agents
to participate in traceability by establishing an effective reward-and-punishment mechanism. In
addition, the research will help agricultural supply chain agents to design strategies to implement
traceability in agriculture and create a transparent and efficient data-driven agricultural products
supply chain. Furthermore, these findings provide guidance to policymakers to develop policies to
accelerate the implementation of blockchain-based traceability systems to guarantee fraud-free and
sustainable agricultural supply chains.
Keywords: agricultural technology; agri-foods traceability; blockchains; simulation analysis
1. Introduction
Nowadays, food safety and traceability have become a global paradigm as govern-
ments and organizations and individuals continue to find solutions to mitigate food safety
challenges. Especially in the agriculture sector, agri-foods are prone to spoilage and highly
sensitive to the temperature and humidity of the transportation. As a consequence of food
contamination and fraud, agricultural supply chains (ASCs) call for real-time information
sharing and transparency in the flow of transactions [1]. In this case, agri-food traceability
provides improved visibility of processing conditions of supply chain participants, facili-
tates the monitoring of the environment of agri-food production, and allows participants to
trace quality and safety issues, thus eventually improving public health. The introduction
of blockchain technology has been applauded for the prospect of addressing the gaps
mentioned above [2]. Blockchain technology guarantees supply chain transparency and
traceability over conventional radio-frequency identification (RFID) and quick response
(QR) code automation technologies [3]. Correspondingly, blockchains with distributed
ledgers, untampered records, and smart contracts are unique from others [4].
Although blockchain technology has varying applications, it introduces a novel solu-
tion to the ASC management dilemma. However, blockchain technology is complicated
and needs all supply chain stakeholders to actively participate in the system. Neverthe-
less, some stakeholders might have concerns, such as the software integrability costs and
employee training costs [5]. As a consequence, most ASC stakeholders tend to adopt a
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184. https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010184 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture
https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010184
https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010184
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5047-9350
https://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture13010184
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/agriculture
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/agriculture13010184?type=check_update&version=2
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 2 of 21
“wait-and-see” strategy of agri-food traceability. The principal reasons for the hesitancy to
adopt blockchain traceability are technology accessibility and data migration costs. Pro-
ducers are hesitant to adopt blockchain traceability as they lack digital skills, and there is
limited digital infrastructure. Additionally, migrating the blockchain platform into existing
operations constitutes roadblocks in processors’ adoption [6]. Aside from this, government
financial rewards encourage the willingness and responsibility of agri-food supply chain
participants to accept blockchain traceability [7]. However, from the perspective of the sup-
ply chain decision-making behavior of stakeholders, there are few studies on traceability
strategy supported by blockchain technology, regardless of its significant implications for
establishing agricultural traceability solutions.
Therefore, this paper employed a mathematical modeling approach to evaluate the
dynamic process of the traceability decision of agricultural producers, processors and
government. Specifically, in a real-world agricultural supply chain, a population of pro-
ducers producing agricultural products in (e.g., rice, milk, livestock, vegetables and fruits)
and deep processing or packaging through a common processor to re-sell these products.
Thus, a blockchain-based traceability system is able to record every step of the operation
of agricultural products, from initial production to transportation and processing into
the system, and if a contamination occurs, it can be identified in time [8]. According
to the bounded rationality and population decision characteristics of evolutionary game
theory [9], a stakeholder is considered a proxy for a type of population, and the evolving
behavior of this population with respect to strategy adoption is examined by studying the
interaction behavior of individual agents with their rivals. We study the decision behavior
of producers’, processors’ and local governments’ efforts in adopting traceability of agri-
cultural products. In this regard, producers are risk averse in reducing transaction costs
by actively engaging in blockchain traceability systems, while processors improve their
brand image to attract more consumers in the same way. Local governments encourage
other agents in the supply chain to proactively adopt blockchain traceability strategies
through strict regulatory incentives and penalties mechanisms, further protecting citizens
from potentially harmful practices or products.
In practical terms, producers and processors each determine whether to participate in
blockchain traceability and benefit from their respective short-term strategies. However, a
producer’s enthusiasm to participate in blockchain traceability can have a long-term impact
on a processor’s adoption strategy for blockchain traceability, and vice versa. Therefore,
they need to determine the most profitable strategy in the long-term. Since producers and
processors are not completely rational, each decision can only be made based on the finite
information available to them. This may not be the ideal state of stability because producers
incur significant costs in traceability, while processors may not invest enough in traceability.
On the other hand, it is also unfavorable for processors to always invest in traceability
systems because of the high cost of migration of legacy data and the possible inability to
adopt new technologies. Thus, it may cause a dilemma in the traceability of agricultural
supply chains. In this context, it requires local governments to intervene and promote
active participation of both parties in traceability through strict regulation to subsidize
and penalize different decision-making behaviors of producers and processors, thereby
enhancing the visibility of the agricultural supply chain for the purpose of food safety.
As mentioned above, implementing an end-to-end traceability system for agricultural
products requires the engagement of producers, processors, and government agencies.
However, the benefits for each party are dynamically influenced by multiple factors, which
may lead to low willingness to participate. In this regard, the premises of bounded
rationality and dynamic evolution of evolutionary game theory (EGT) are more consistent
with the behavioral rules and decision characteristics of participants or agents. Therefore,
EGT is suitable for exploring the behavioral interactions of agents in the blockchain-based
traceability of agricultural supply chains, helping participants make rational choices, which
is conducive to realizing the interests of all agents. To this end, an analytical model, namely,
the “three-party evolutionary game model for agricultural supply chain traceability”,
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 3 of 21
is proposed. The decision process and influencing factors of supply chain traceability
participants regarding blockchain traceability are explored through a mathematical model
analysis and simulation. The primary purposes of this study are: (a) to analyze and
study the long-term decision-making behavior of the main participants (i.e., producers,
processors, and governments) in the blockchain traceability of agricultural products; (b) to
explore the major influencing factors for establishing a blockchain-based traceability system
for agricultural supply chain; and (c) to obtain evolutionary stable strategies (ESS) under
different decision-making scenarios.
The contributions of this paper are as follows: (1) We systematically review the
application cases of blockchain traceability in different fields, especially the application
prospects of blockchain technology in the agricultural products supply chain. (2) We
use evolutionary game theory to examine in depth the dynamic decisions of producers
processors and governments regarding blockchain traceability. (3) We identify the necessity
of incentives and penalties for the advancement of blockchain traceability implementation.
2. Literature Review and Theoretical Framework
2.1. The Mechanisms of Blockchains
Blockchain, well known as a decentralized ledger, has been regarded as a highly
significant technology that could drastically change the global economy via the principle of
a decentralized digital database of transactions [10]. It is an open distributed ledger capable
of efficiently recording transactions by bundling transactions in cryptographically con-
nected blocks in a verifiable and tamper-evident manner [11]. There are three technological
innovations involved in blockchain technology, i.e., cryptography, consensus mechanisms
and smart contracts [12]. Blockchain technology uses a shared, secured, distributed and
permissioned database of transactions to handle issues that ensured a variety of merits
within its application. Such merits include security, transparency [13], traceability [14] and
interoperability [15]. Hence, it has inevitably gained traction and yielded a larger number
of applications and implementations across multiple industries [16]. Table 1 summarizes
some representative studies on blockchains which have been applied in various sectors.
The most recent revolution in blockchain technology is the smart contract built on
blockchain technology, which is basically a computer program that automatically exe-
cutes [17]. Smart contracts replace traditional contracts by writing the terms of agreements
directly into program codes, thus increasing the efficiency of transactions and also mak-
ing them more secure to conduct due to the immutable nature of data storage [18]. Thus,
blockchain technology improves supply chain efficiency by allowing companies to complete
transactions directly and without third parties [19].
Table 1. Summary of blockchain applications in different fields.
Authors Fields Highlights Methods
Walsh et al. [20] Financial services
Examined managers’ resistance to the
adoption of blockchain-based systems in
financial services
Qualitative study
Wang and Su [21] Energy
Analyzed the application of blockchain in
energy sectors to promote trust
between entities
Bibliometric analysis
Tanwar, Parekh and Evans [4] Healthcare Built a healthcare record sharing system
with blockchain for efficiency and security Experimental analysis
Kayikci et al. [22] Food supply chain
Investigated blockchain technology
resolving traceability, trust, and
accountability in the food industry
Systematic literature review
and case interviews
Centobelli et al. [23] Sustainability Incorporated a closed-loop recovery
framework into blockchain platforms Case study
Kittipanya-ngam and Tan [24] Agriculture Discussed the practice of blockchain in
digitalization for agri-food supply chains Interviews
Liu and Li [25] E-commerce
Presented a general framework for product
traceability in cross-border e-commerce
supply chains based on blockchain
Experimental analysis
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 4 of 21
2.2. Blockchain-Based Traceability in Agri-Food Supply Chain
Traceability is determined to have the ability to retrieve information and to identify
records of commodities along supply chains bi-directionally through a record-keeping
system. In general supply chain traceability, manufacturers should bear more of the
cost of applying technology than suppliers and retailers to maximize the profits of the
supply chain [26]. More specifically, downstream retailers take more responsibility for
agri-food traceability than upstream suppliers in the agricultural supply chain, because
customers often accuse sellers of dishonesty when food fraud occurs [27]. Several modern
traceability technologies have been deployed in the agricultural field, including radio-
frequency identification (RFID) and the Internet of Things (IoT) [28]. For example, RFID
technology has been employed to track commodities information through the supply chain
to guarantee food safety [29]. However, the above techniques cannot verify the authenticity
of the information, which requires new traceable mechanisms for quality and information
exchange from upstream to downstream the supply chain [30].
Agricultural products need to flow through multiple channels and actors from seed
selection to final sale to consumers [31], with features such as long production cycles,
susceptibility to spoilage and strict transportation conditions. Therefore, a more secure,
transparent and decentralized traceability technology is required to record and maintain all
information and data from the production to the distribution of agricultural products [32].
It is widely accepted that blockchain technology is crucial to improving the resilience of
agricultural supply chains, by enabling all participants to have the ability to communicate
real-time information within decision making. Consequently, scholars have conducted
extensive research on blockchain-based agricultural traceability [33]: (1) In the soybean
supply chain, blockchains with smart contracts are utilized to perform business transactions
could elevate the soybean supply chain to a heightened level of integrity, reliability, and
security [34]. (2) A modified consensus algorithm based on blockchain technology can
optimize the regulation process of rice supply and provide a feasible solution for food and
oil quality regulation [35]. (3) The implementation of blockchains for traceability strategies
in fresh food supply chains involving suppliers, 3PLs and e-tailers not only provides veri-
fiable traceability information, but also helps companies to monitor product quality [36].
(4) A blockchain-based trust model can increase transparency in the distribution of organic
products and improve the tamper-resistant performance of organic agricultural [37]. Previ-
ous research has also proposed solutions for the case of olive oil supply chains using IoT
and multi-sensor tracking systems in blockchain smart contracts [11]. Among the many
solutions for blockchain technology in the agri-supply chain, government agencies monitor
and verify companies’ compliance with regulatory and market requirements in agri-food
traceability and monitor and evaluate blockchain implementation in the agri-food industry.
Thus, in blockchain traceability in the agri-food sector supply chain, government agen-
cies play a leading, monitoring, and policy-making role. Furthermore, for policymakers,
promoting blockchain in the agricultural industry will ease regulatory and certification
norms, while traceability details facilitate regulatory and certification norms, and trace-
ability particulars will improve quality and safety [38], thus contributing to maintaining
quality control throughout the agricultural supply chain [39].
2.3. Evolutionary Game Theory
Evolutionary game theory is a mathematical methodology designed to investigate and
anticipate social interactions. It presupposes that participants are bounded by rationality
and then analyses stakeholder strategy selection [40]. In analogy to the Nash equilibrium
in classical game theory, an evolutionary stable state (ESS) also exists. A state is referred to
as a stable status when it can be preserved under mild disturbances caused by a dynamic
system. Apart from the concept of evolutionary stable strategies, evolutionary game theory
also considers replicator dynamics. Trends in individual strategy choice of populations can
be better predicted based on replicator dynamics models [41].
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 5 of 21
Several scholars have examined the incentives for blockchain technology applications
with the concept of games. Xuan et al. [42] presents a model for data sharing based on
game theory, in which blockchain smart contracts can manipulate the incentive parameters
and consistently stimulate users to share data. In addition, scholars have used evolutionary
game theory to model the evolution of participant behavior in relation to reward-and-
punishment mechanisms and found that punitive measures were observed to have a core
effect in maintaining the integrity of the blockchain [43].
The literature review analysis reveals that the existing studies mainly focus on the
characteristics of blockchain technology, solutions for different types of supply chains,
and the advantages and challenges of blockchain traceability, but they pay less attention
to the game behavior among some subjects in the agricultural products supply chain.
Thus, there are some research gaps: First, most of the existing literature focuses on the
participating actors in the agricultural supply chain, while ignoring the policy regulation
and supervisory role of the government in agricultural blockchain traceability. Moreover,
although some scholars use the evolutionary game approach to analyze the behavioral
decision of technology adoption, they rarely consider “free-rider” behavior. How to
avoid opportunistic behavior of agricultural supply chain members in blockchain-based
traceability has become a difficult problem to be solved. Therefore, to address the above
research shortcomings, this study was conducted. The process of the paper is shown in
Figure 1.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 6 of 23 
 
 
2.3. Evolutionary Game Theory 
Evolutionary game theory is a mathematical methodology designed to investigate 
and anticipate social interactions. It presupposes that participants are bounded by ration-
ality and then analyses stakeholder strategy selection [40]. In analogy to the Nash equilib-
rium in classical game theory, an evolutionary stable state (ESS) also exists. A state is re-
ferred to as a stable status when it can be preserved under mild disturbances caused by a 
dynamic system. Apart from the concept of evolutionary stable strategies, evolutionary 
game theory also considers replicator dynamics. Trends in individual strategy choice of 
populations can be better predicted based on replicator dynamics models [41]. 
Several scholars have examined the incentives for blockchain technology applica-
tions with the concept of games. Xuan et al. [42] presents a model for data sharing based 
on game theory, in which blockchain smart contracts can manipulate the incentive param-
eters and consistently stimulate users to share data. In addition, scholars have used evo-
lutionary game theory to model the evolution of participant behavior in relation to re-
ward-and-punishment mechanisms and found that punitive measures were observed to 
have a core effect in maintaining the integrity of the blockchain [43]. 
The literature review analysis reveals that the existing studies mainly focus on the 
characteristics of blockchain technology, solutions for different types of supply chains, 
and the advantages and challenges of blockchain traceability, but they pay less attention 
to the game behavior among some subjects in the agricultural products supply chain. 
Thus, there are some research gaps: First, most of the existing literature focuses on the 
participating actors in the agricultural supply chain, while ignoring the policy regulation 
and supervisory role of the government in agricultural blockchain traceability. Moreover, 
although some scholars use the evolutionary game approach to analyze the behavioral 
decision of technology adoption, they rarely consider “free-rider” behavior. How to avoid 
opportunistic behavior of agricultural supply chain members in blockchain-based tracea-
bility has become a difficult problem to be solved. Therefore, to address the above research 
shortcomings, this study was conducted. The process of the paper is shown in Figure 1. 
Governament 
Producers Processors 
Blockchains 
traceability
 
Figure 1. The tripartite decision framework for traceability in agricultural supply chains. 
  
Figure 1. The tripartite decision framework for traceability in agricultural supply chains.
3. Materials and Methods
3.1. Model Assumption
Producers. Producers are stakeholders responsible for growing or harvesting the
agri-food commodities [44]. It is assumed that whether producers choose the traceability
strategy depends predominantly on the gross benefits that can be achieved by different
strategies, while producers make decisions with the goal of maximizing benefits.
Benefits Rh are for producers choosing the traceability strategy for agricultural quality
and safety, and the benefits Rl are for choosing the “not traceability” strategy.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 6 of 21
The cost for producers to choose an agricultural quality and safety traceability strategy
is Ch.
Producers who adopt agricultural quality and safety traceability behavior receive
subsidies, Sh.
Producers who choose not to implement traceability are punished by government
strict regulation, Fl .
When producers choose “not traceability” and processors take “traceability”, produc-
ers will receive “free-riding” benefits, Ql .
Processors. In this research, processor refers to agricultural product-processing enter-
prises, which are responsible for connecting agricultural products producers, establishing
agricultural products sales network and directly connecting with the market [45]. We assume
that processors also have two strategies, choosing either “traceability” or “not traceability”.
Benefits Rp are for processors choosing the traceability strategy for agricultural quality
and safety, and the benefits Rn are for choosing the “not traceability” strategy.
The cost for processors to choose an agricultural quality and safety traceability strategy
is Cp.
Processors who adopt agricultural quality and safety traceability behavior receive
subsidies, Sp.
Processors who choose “not traceability” are punished by government strict regulation, Fl.
When processors choose “not traceability” and producers take “traceability”, proces-
sors will receive “free-riding” benefits, Qp.
Government. The governments should engage with agricultural supply chain partic-
ipants to ensure the smooth functioning of blockchain-based traceability system [46]. For
example, the government will primarily have a policy and regulatory function. Subsidies and
other penalties will also be provided to change the behavior of producers and processors.
The government receives utility Gh when producers adopt a strict regulation strategy,
and it receives utility Gl if the government adopts a passive regulation strategy. According
to the actual situation in China, in this case, it is assumed that Gh > Gl .
An additional benefit M is achieved when the government strictly regulates and the
cost of strict regulation is Cg. In reality, the government plays a leading role in food safety
traceability, and thus, in this study, it is supposed that Cg < M.
When negative government regulation leads producers and processors to choose “not
traceability” behavior, there are negative benefits U.
3.2. Replicator Dynamic
After determining the game strategy of the three subjects, the probability that a
producer chooses a traceability strategy is x, and the probability of a producer not choosing
traceability is 1− x; the probability of processor choosing traceability is y; the probability
of processor choosing “not traceability” is 1− y; the probability of strict regulation for the
government is z; and the probability of passive regulation is 1− z. The tripartite game
payoffs of the three parties of producers, processors, and the government under different
behavioral strategies are shown in Figure 2.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 7 of 21
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 8 of 23 
 
 
government is z ; and the probability of passive regulation is 1 z− . The tripartite game 
payoffs of the three parties of producers, processors, and the government under different 
behavioral strategies are shown in Figure 2. 
3.2.1. Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Producers 
According to Figure 2, the expected payoffs of producers when they choose tracea-
bility 1hE  or “not traceability” 1lE  can be calculated, respectively. Then, the average ex-
pected payoffs of agri-producers was denoted as 1E . 
1 ( ) (1 )( )
(1 )( ) (1 )(1 )( )
h h h h h h h
h h h h h h
E yz R C S y z R C S
z y R C S y z R C S
= − + + − − +
+ − − + + − − − +
 (1)
1 ( ) (1 )( ) (1 )( ) (1 )(1 )l l l l l l l l lE yz R F Q y z R Q z y R F y z R= − + + − + + − − + − −  (2)
1 1 1(1 )h lE xE x E= + −  (3)
Government
Producers
Processors
Producers
Processors
Processors
Processors
Payoff of producers Payoff of processors Payoff of government  
Figure 2. The game tree and payoffs of government, producers and processors 
According to Equations (1)–(3), the replicator dynamic for producers adopting trace-
ability were determined as: 
Figure 2. The game tree and payoffs of government, producers and processors.
3.2.1. Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Producers
According to Figure 2, the expected payoffs of producers when they choose traceability
E1h or “not traceability” E1l can be calculated, respectively. Then, the average expected
payoffs of agri-producers was denoted as E1.
E1h = yz(Rh − Ch + Sh) + y(1− z)(Rh − Ch + Sh)
+z(1− y)(Rh − Ch + Sh) + (1− y)(1− z)(Rh − Ch + Sh)
(1)
E1l = yz(Rl − Fl + Ql) + y(1− z)(Rl + Ql) + z(1− y)(Rl − Fl) + (1− y)(1− z)Rl (2)
E1 = xE1h + (1− x)E1l (3)
According to Equations (1)–(3), the replicator dynamic for producers adopting trace-
ability were determined as:
H1(x) = dx
dt = x(E1h − E1)
= x(1− x)(Rh + Sh + Flz− Rl −Qly− Ch)
(4)
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 8 of 21
Let I1(y) = Rh + Sh + Flz − Rl − Qly − Ch then it can be simplified as H1(x) =
x(1− x)I1(y), dH1(x)/dx = (1− 2x)I1(y).
When y = Rh+Sh+Fl z−Rl−Ch
Ql
= y∗, I1(y) = 0 and at this point H1(x) == 0. Thus, no
matter what the initial ratio of “traceability” x and “not traceability” 1− x is, the ratio will
not change with time.
Based on the stability theorem for differential equations, the evolutionary stabiliza-
tion strategy satisfies: H1(x) = 0 and ∂H1(x)/∂x < 0. As ∂I1(y)/∂y = −Ql < 0, when
y < y∗, I1(y) > 0, ∂H1(x)/∂x|x=1 < 0 and ∂H1(x)/∂x|x=0 > 0, so x = 1 is evolution-
ary stability strategy(ESS). Similarly, when y > y∗, I1(y) < 0, ∂H1(x)/∂x|x=0 < 0 and
∂H1(x)/∂x|x=1 > 0, means x = 0 is evolutionary stability strategy (ESS).
3.2.2. Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Processors
Then, the expected payoffs of processors when they choose to “traceability” E2p or
“not traceability” E2n can be calculated, respectively. Thus the average expected payoffs of
processors was derived as E2.
E2p = xz(Rp − Cp + Sp) + x(1− z)(Rp − Cp + Sp)
+z(1− x)(Rp − Cp + Sp) + (1− x)(1− z)(Rp − Cp + Sp)
(5)
E2n = xz(Rn− Fn + Qp) + x(1− z)(Rn + Qp) + z(1− x)(Rn− Fn) + (1− x)(1− z)Rn (6)
E2 = yE2p + (1− y)E2n (7)
Based on Equations (5)–(7), the replicator dynamic for processors’ traceability was
determined as:
H2(y) = dy
dt = y(E2p − E2)
= y(1− y)(Rp + Sp + Fnz− Cp − Rn −Qpx)
(8)
Let I2(z) = Rp + Sp + Fnz−Cp− Rn−Qpx then H2(y) = y(1− y)I2(z), ∂H2(y)/∂y =
(1− 2y)I2(z)
When z =
Qpx+Cp+Rn−Rp−Sp
Fn
= z∗, I2(z) = 0 and at this point H2(y) == 0.
As ∂I2(z)/∂z = Fn > 0, when z < z∗, I2(z) < 0, ∂H1(x)/∂x|x=0 < 0 and ∂H1(x)/
∂x|x=1 > 0, so x = 0 is ESS; when I2(z) > 0, I2(z) > 0, ∂H2(y)/∂y
∣∣y=0 > 0, ∂H1(x)/
∂x|x=1 < 0, and thus, x = 1 is ESS.
3.2.3. Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Local Governments
Subsequently, the expected payoffs of the government when they choose to strict
regulation E3r or E3o can be obtained, respectively. So, average expected payoffs of the
government were derived as E3.
E3r = xy(Gh − Cg − Sh − Sp + M) + x(1− y)(Gh − Cg − Sh + Fn + M)
+y(1− x)(Gl − Cg− Sp + Fl + M) + (1− x)(1− y)(Gl − Cg + Fl + Fn + M)
(9)
E3o = xy(Gh − Sh − Sp) + x(1− y)(Gh − Sh) + y(1− x)(Gl − Sp) + (1− x)(1− y)(Gl −U) (10)
E3 = zE3r + (1− z)E3o (11)
Based on Equations (9)–(11), the replicator dynamic for local governments strict
regulation were denoted as:
H3(z) = dz
dt = z(E3r − E3)
= z(1− z)(Fl + Fn + M + U − Cg + Uxy− Fl x− Fny−Ux−Uy)
(12)
Let I3(x) = Fl + Fn + M + U − Cg + Uxy − Fl x − Fny − Ux − Uy, then it can be
rewritten as H3(z) = z(1− z)I3(x), dH3(z)/dz = (1− 2z)I3(x).
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 9 of 21
When x =
Fl+Fn+M+U−Cg−Fny−Uy
Fl+(1−y)U = x∗, I3(z) = 0, and at this point, H3(z) == 0.
Thus, no matter what the initial ratio of “ strict regulation” z and “do “ 1− z is, the ratio
will not change with time.
Since ∂I3(x)/∂x = −[FL + (1− y)U] < 0, when x < x∗, I3(y) > 0, ∂H3(z)/∂z|z=0 > 0
and ∂H3(z)/∂z|z=1 < 0, which means z = 1 is evolutionary stability strategy (ESS); when
x > x∗, I3(y) < 0, ∂H3(z)/∂z|z=0 < 0 and ∂H3(z)/∂z|z=1 > 0, so z = 0 is evolutionary
stability strategy (ESS).
3.3. Analysis of ESS
On the basis of the stability analysis of the strategies of agricultural producers, agri-
cultural processors and local governments, the overall analysis of the tripartite system
is conducted.
H1(x) = dx
dt = x(1− x)(Rh + Sh + Flz− Rl −Qly− Ch)
H2(y) =
dy
dt = y(1− y)(Rp + Sp + Fnz− Cp − Rn −Qpx)
H3(z) = dz
dt = z(1− z)(Fl + Fn + M + U − Cg + Uxy− Fl x− Fny−Ux−Uy)
(13)
When dx
dt = 0, dy
dt = 0, dz
dt = 0, from Equation (13), the equilibrium points of system can
be obtained: E1(0, 0, 0), E2(1, 0, 0), E3(0, 1, 0), E4(0, 0, 1), E5(1, 1, 0), E6(1, 0, 1), E7(0, 1, 1)
and E8(1, 1, 1). Additionally, mixed-strategy equilibrium points E∗9−14 can be obtained
as follows:
E∗9 = (−(Cp + Rn − Rp − Sp)/Qp,−(Ch − Rh + Rl − Sh)/Ql , 0)
E∗10 = ((Fl − Cg + Fn + M + U)/(Fl + U), 0, (Ch − Rh + Rl − Sh)/Fl)
E∗11 = (0, (Fl − Cg + Fn + M + U)/(Fn + U), (Cp + Rn − Rp − Sp)/Fn)
E∗12 = ((Fl − Cg + M)/Fl , 1, (Ch + Ql − Rh + Rl − Sh)/Fl)
E∗13 = (1,
(
Fn − Cg + M
)
/Fn,
(
Cp + Qp + Rn − Rp − Sp
)
/Fn)
E∗14 = (
(
Fn − Cp − Rn + Rp + Sp
)
/Qp, (Fl − Ch + Rh − Rl + Sh)/Ql , 1)
However, if the equilibrium is asymptotically stable for an unsymmetric game, it
must be consistent with strict Nash equilibrium and is a pure strategic equilibrium [47].
Therefore, in order to discuss the asymptotic stability of the equilibrium points of the
replication dynamic equation, it is merely necessary to discuss the equilibrium points
of the replication dynamic equation with pure strategies. The equilibrium points that
satisfy the condition include E1 − E8. According to the Lyapunov system stability criterion,
equilibrium point is asymptotically stable when all the eigenvalues of the Jacobi matrix
λ < 0; if there is one or more λ > 0, then the equilibrium is unstable [48]. Jacobian matrix J
is as shown in Equation (14).
J =

∂H1(x)
∂x
∂H1(x)
∂y
∂H1(x)
∂z
∂H2(y)
∂x
∂H2(y)
∂y
∂H2(y)
∂z
∂H3(z)
∂x
∂H3(z)
∂y
∂H3(z)
∂z

=

(1− 2x)(Rh − Ch − Rl + Sh + Fl z−Ql y) −x(1− x)Ql x(1− x)Fl
y(1− y)Qp (1− 2y) ∗ (Rp + Sp + Fn ∗ z−Qp ∗ x− Cp− Rn) y(1− y)Fn
z(1− z) ∗ (Uy− Fl −U) z(1− z) ∗ (Ux− Fl −U) (1− 2z)(Uxy + Fl + Fn + M + U − Cg − Fl x− Fny−Ux−Uy)

(14)
The eigenvalues of points E1 − E8 are shown in Table 2.
By observing, we can see that the eigenvalues λ3 of the E1(0, 0, 0), E2(1, 0, 0), E3(0, 1, 0)
and E5(1, 1, 0) are positive under the assumption M > Cg. Hence, these equilibria are not
asymptotically stable points, so only E4(0, 0, 1), E6(1, 0, 1), E7(0, 1, 1) and E8(1, 1, 1) should
be investigated; the stability conditions are shown in Table 3.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 10 of 21
Table 2. Eigenvalue of Jacobian matrix.
Equilibrium Points
Eigenvalues
λ1 λ2 λ3
E1(0, 0, 0) Rh − Ch − Rl + Sh Rp − Rn − Cp + Sp Fl − Cg + Fn + M + U
E2(1, 0, 0) Ch − Rh + Rl − Sh Rp −Qp − Rn − Cp + Sp Fn − Cg + M
E3(0, 1, 0) Rh −Ql − Ch − Rl + Sh Cp + Rn − Rp − Sp Fl − Cg + M
E4(0, 0, 1) Fl − Ch + Rh − Rl + Sh Fn − Cp − Rn + Rp + Sp Cg − Fl − Fn −M−U
E5(1, 1, 0) Ch + Ql − Rh + Rl − Sh Cp + Qp + Rn − Rp − Sp M− Cg
E6(1, 0, 1) Ch − Fl − Rh + Rl − Sh Fn − Cp −Qp − Rn +
Rp + Sp
Cg − Fn −M
E7(0, 1, 1) Fl − Ch −Ql + Rh −
Rl + Sh
Cp − Fn + Rn − Rp − Sp Cg − Fl −M
E8(1, 1, 1) Ch − Fl + Ql − Rh +
Rl − Sh
Cp − Fn + Qp + Rn −
Rp − Sp
Cg −M
Table 3. Equilibrium stability conditions of the system.
Equilibrium Points Stability Condition Scenario
E4(0, 0, 1) Fl − Ch + Rh − Rl + Sh < 0; Fn − Cp − Rn +
Rp + Sp < 0; Cg − Fl − Fn −M−U < 0 1
E6(1, 0, 1) Ch − Fl − Rh + Rl − Sh < 0; Fn − Cp −Qp −
Rn + Rp + Sp < 0; Cg − Fn −M < 0 2
E7(0, 1, 1) Fl − Ch −Ql + Rh − Rl + Sh <
0; Cp − Fn + Rn − Rp − Sp < 0; Cg − Fl −M < 0 3
E8(1, 1, 1) Ch − Fl + Ql − Rh + Rl − Sh <
0; Cp − Fn + Qp + Rn − Rp − Sp < 0; Cg −M < 0 4
According to the three-stage model of innovation implementation for new technology,
we divide the implementation process for blockchain-based traceability into three phases,
namely, initiation, adoptive decision and deployment.
In the initiation stage, governments are under great pressure to endanger public health
with inferior agricultural commodities on the market. The government will take action in
supervision, while agricultural producers and processors are often reluctant to improve
the quality of commodities, due to the burden of traceability costs. Accordingly, this stage
corresponds to E4(0, 0, 1). From Table 3, we can see there are two inequalities that need to
be met at the same time. To the first inequalities Rl − Fl > Sh, when the difference between
the benefit Rl of an agricultural producer not choosing traceability and the penalty Fl of
strict government regulation at this point is greater than the government subsidy Sh when
the producer chooses traceability, he will not choose traceability. For the second inequalities
Rn − Fn > Sp, equally, agricultural processors will choose not to traceability when the
difference between their benefits Rn and the penalties of strict government regulation Fn is
greater than the subsidy Sp for traceability. When agricultural producers and processors
do not have traceability, it will weaken the market competitiveness of the products and
cause food quality and safety problems, which will affect the local economic development
negatively in the long run, so local governments tend to adopt stabilization strategy of
strict regulation.
In the adoption decision stage, with the development of blockchains, when the benefit–
cost (Rh − Ch) plus the government incentive Sh of the agricultural producer adopting
traceability strategy is greater than the benefit when not choosing traceability Rl minus
the penalty Fl under strict government regulation conditions, the agricultural producer
will choose the traceability strategy (Rh − Ch + Sh > Rl − Fl), so agricultural producer will
choose the traceability strategy. When the sum of the benefit Rn and the free-rider benefit Qp
when the processor chooses the no-traceability strategy minus the penalty Fn is greater than
the government strictly regulates than the reward Sp when choosing the traceability strategy
(Rn − Fn + Qp > Sp), the processor will not choose the traceability strategy. At this point,
E6(1, 0, 1) is the evolutionary stabilization strategy. Similarly, when the sum of the benefit
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 11 of 21
Rl and the free-rider benefit Ql when the agricultural producer chooses the no-traceability
strategy minus the penalty Fl is greater than the strictly regulated government reward Sh
when choosing the traceability strategy (Rl + Ql − Fl > Sh), agricultural producers will
not choose the traceability strategy; when the benefit–cost (Rp − Cp) plus the government
incentive Sp of the processor choosing the traceability strategy is greater than the benefit
when not choosing traceability Rn minus the penalty Fn under strict government regulation
conditions, the processor will choose the traceability strategy (Rh − Ch + Sh > Rl − Fl),
then E7(0, 1, 1) is the evolutionary stabilization strategy.
In the deployment stage, when blockchain technology and agricultural quality and
safety traceability systems tend to mature, the agricultural product traceability development
enters a stable phase. The system has a stable evolutionary strategy E8(1, 1, 1), whereby
agricultural producers choose to produce high-quality agricultural products, processors
choose the traceability strategy, and governments choose strict regulation. To achieve this
state, two inequalities should be satisfied. From analyzing inequality Rh − Ch + Sh >
Rl − Fl + Ql , it is clear that agricultural producers tend to choose traceability strategy when
the overall benefits of choosing a traceability strategy is greater than the total benefit of
choosing “not traceability” under strict regulation conditions. Likewise, to the inequality
Rp − Cp + Sp > Rn − Fn + Qp, processors tend to adopt the traceability strategy when
the overall benefits of choosing a traceability strategy is greater than the total benefit of
choosing “not traceability” under strict regulation conditions.
4. Numerical Simulation
In order to visualize the dynamic evolution process of three participants in different
scenarios, this paper uses MATLAB software to perform simulations of the above four
ESSs. To further evaluate the sensitivity of major parameters on the decisions of agri-
cultural producers, processors, and government after the blockchain traceability system
was executed, we compared evolutionary trajectory diagrams under different values of
primary parameters.
4.1. Results of Analysis
Scenario I. When Rl − Fl > Sh and Rn − Fn > Sp, after the implementation of agri-
cultural product quality and safety traceability, the incentives that agricultural producers
and processors receive from the “traceability” strategy can hardly compensate for the cost
burden of traceability, resulting in the benefits of producers and processors choosing the
“not traceability” strategy exceeding the benefits of traceability. The eigenvalues of the
equilibrium points (0, 0, 1) are all below zero, so E4(0, 0, 1) is the evolutionary stability
point. At this moment, the evolutionary stable strategies of producers, processors and
government are {not traceability, not traceability, strict regulation}. It is known that when
the above conditions are satisfied, the government regulation is invalid, as indicated by the
results of the tripartite evolutionary game.
Without loss of generality, in the initial moment of the simulation experiment, we
set the probability of the strategy of producer traceability, processor traceability and strict
government regulation to 0.5. In order to set the primitive parameters appropriately, the
parameters of the model must meet economic hypotheses and empirical determinations.
Based on the realistic implications of the model parameters and the experience of former
research, the referential values of the parameters are displayed in Table 3, and the parame-
ters are set in Table 4. The parameter values of case 1 ensure the stability scenario I, and the
evolution path is presented in Figure 3.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 12 of 21
Table 4. Simulation values in four cases.
Rh Rl Ch Sh Ql Fl Rp Rn Cp Sp Qp Fn M Cg U
Case1 16 20 15 12 6 6 32 30 28 15 5 10 15 10 20
Case2 20 16 10 30 15 - - 24 20 10 8 5 - - -
Case3 20 16 10 - 15 - - 24 20 - 8 - - - -
Case4 24 16 - 10 - 8 - 24 25 12 - 15 - - -
Note: “-” means that the assignment in this case is consistent with Case 1.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 13 of 23 
 
 
executed, we compared evolutionary trajectory diagrams under different values of pri-
mary parameters. 
4.1. Results of Analysis 
Scenario I. When l l hR F S− >  and n n pR F S− > , after the implementation of agricul-
tural product quality and safety traceability, the incentives that agricultural producers 
and processors receive from the “traceability” strategy can hardly compensate for the cost 
burden of traceability, resulting in the benefits of producers and processors choosing the 
“not traceability” strategy exceeding the benefits of traceability. The eigenvalues of the 
equilibrium points (0,0,1) are all below zero, so 4(0,0,1)E  is the evolutionary stability 
point. At this moment, the evolutionary stable strategies of producers, processors and 
government are {not traceability, not traceability, strict regulation}. It is known that when 
the above conditions are satisfied, the government regulation is invalid, as indicated by 
the results of the tripartite evolutionary game. 
Without loss of generality, in the initial moment of the simulation experiment, we set 
the probability of the strategy of producer traceability, processor traceability and strict 
government regulation to 0.5. In order to set the primitive parameters appropriately, the 
parameters of the model must meet economic hypotheses and empirical determinations. 
Based on the realistic implications of the model parameters and the experience of former 
research, the referential values of the parameters are displayed in Table 3, and the param-
eters are set in Table 4. The parameter values of case 1 ensure the stability scenario I, and 
the evolution path is presented in Figure 3. 
Table 4. Simulation values in four cases. 
 hR  lR hC  hS  lQ lF pR  nR pC  pS  pQ  nF  M  
g
C  U  
Case1 16 20 15 12 6 6 32 30 28 15 5 10 15 10 20 
Case2 20 16 10 30 15 - - 24 20 10 8 5 - - - 
Case3 20 16 10 - 15 - - 24 20 - 8 - - - - 
Case4 24 16 - 10 - 8 - 24 25 12 - 15 - - - 
Note: “-” means that the assignment in this case is consistent with Case 1. 
 
Figure 3. The evolutionary path of case 1. 
Scenario II. When h h h l lR C S R F− + > −  and n n p pR F Q S− + > , the eigenvalues 1 2,λ λ  and 
3λ  to the equilibrium points 6(1,0,1)E  are all lower than zero. From the first inequality 
h h h l lR C S R F− + > − , it can be found that when the revenue obtained by adopting the “trace-
ability” strategy is greater than the gain when “no traceability” is applied, the producer 
will adopt the “ traceability” behavior. From the second inequality n n p pR F Q S− + > , we can 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
time
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Producer
Processor
Government
Figure 3. The evolutionary path of case 1.
Scenario II. When Rh − Ch + Sh > Rl − Fl and Rn − Fn + Qp > Sp, the eigenvalues
λ1, λ2 and λ3 to the equilibrium points E6(1, 0, 1) are all lower than zero. From the first
inequality Rh − Ch + Sh > Rl − Fl , it can be found that when the revenue obtained by
adopting the “traceability” strategy is greater than the gain when “no traceability” is
applied, the producer will adopt the “ traceability” behavior. From the second inequality
Rn − Fn + Qp > Sp, we can see that the processor will not adopt the “traceability” behavior
when the benefit from the “no traceability” strategy is greater than the reward from the
“traceability” behavior.
Moreover, the total utility of strict government regulation is always greater than the
total utility of passive regulation, and the government will continue to exercise strict regu-
lation on agricultural quality and safety. In this case, the corresponding stable evolutionary
strategies of producers, processors and the government are {traceability, not traceability,
strict regulation}. In this case, the parameter’s value are showed in case 2 in Table 4, which
guarantees the local stability scenario II, and the evolutionary path is illustrated in Figure 4.
Scenario III. When Rl + Ql − Fl > Sh and Rp − Cp + Sp > Rn − Fn, the eigenvalues
λ1, λ2 and λ3 to the equilibrium points E7(0, 1, 1) are all lower than zero. After introducing
the blockchain technology traceability system, the stable evolutionary strategies of pro-
ducers, processors and the government are {not traceability, traceability, strict regulation}.
From the first inequality Rl + Ql − Fl > Sh, we can find that the total benefit of free-riding
behavior by producers under strict government regulation is higher than the total benefit
of “traceability” behavior, so producers choose the “not traceability” strategy. The second
inequality Rp−Cp + Sp > Rn− Fn also shows that the total benefits obtained by the proces-
sor after adopting “traceability” are higher than the benefits of non-traceability minus the
penalty, so the processor chooses the “traceability” strategy. In line with scenario 2, losses
caused by permissive government regulation are higher than the sum of the incentives and
regulatory costs, so the government maintains a strict regulatory strategy.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 13 of 21
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 23 
 
 
see that the processor will not adopt the “traceability” behavior when the benefit from the 
“no traceability” strategy is greater than the reward from the “traceability” behavior. 
Moreover, the total utility of strict government regulation is always greater than the 
total utility of passive regulation, and the government will continue to exercise strict reg-
ulation on agricultural quality and safety. In this case, the corresponding stable evolution-
ary strategies of producers, processors and the government are {traceability, not traceabil-
ity, strict regulation}. In this case, the parameter’s value are showed in case 2 in Table 4, 
which guarantees the local stability scenario II, and the evolutionary path is illustrated in 
Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4. The evolutionary path of case 2. 
Scenario III. When l l l hR Q F S+ − >  and p p p n nR C S R F− + > − , the eigenvalues 1 2,λ λ  
and 3λ  to the equilibrium points 7 (0,1,1)E  are all lower than zero. After introducing the 
blockchain technology traceability system, the stable evolutionary strategies of producers, 
processors and the government are {not traceability, traceability, strict regulation}. From 
the first inequality l l l hR Q F S+ − > , we can find that the total benefit of free-riding behav-
ior by producers under strict government regulation is higher than the total benefit of 
“traceability” behavior, so producers choose the “not traceability” strategy. The second 
inequality p p p n nR C S R F− + > −  also shows that the total benefits obtained by the proces-
sor after adopting “traceability” are higher than the benefits of non-traceability minus the 
penalty, so the processor chooses the “traceability” strategy. In line with scenario 2, losses 
caused by permissive government regulation are higher than the sum of the incentives 
and regulatory costs, so the government maintains a strict regulatory strategy. 
The values in case 3 (in Table 4) meet the local stability scenario 3, and the evolution 
trajectory is illustrated in Figure 5. 
 
Figure 5. The evolutionary path of case 3. 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
time
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Producer
Processor
Government
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
time
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Producer
Processor
Government
Figure 4. The evolutionary path of case 2.
The values in case 3 (in Table 4) meet the local stability scenario 3, and the evolution
trajectory is illustrated in Figure 5.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 14 of 23 
 
 
see that the processor will not adopt the “traceability” behavior when the benefit from the 
“no traceability” strategy is greater than the reward from the “traceability” behavior. 
Moreover, the total utility of strict government regulation is always greater than the 
total utility of passive regulation, and the government will continue to exercise strict reg-
ulation on agricultural quality and safety. In this case, the corresponding stable evolution-
ary strategies of producers, processors and the government are {traceability, not traceabil-
ity, strict regulation}. In this case, the parameter’s value are showed in case 2 in Table 4, 
which guarantees the local stability scenario II, and the evolutionary path is illustrated in 
Figure 4. 
 
Figure 4. The evolutionary path of case 2. 
Scenario III. When l l l hR Q F S+ − >  and p p p n nR C S R F− + > − , the eigenvalues 1 2,λ λ  
and 3λ  to the equilibrium points 7 (0,1,1)E  are all lower than zero. After introducing the 
blockchain technology traceability system, the stable evolutionary strategies of producers, 
processors and the government are {not traceability, traceability, strict regulation}. From 
the first inequality l l l hR Q F S+ − > , we can find that the total benefit of free-riding behav-
ior by producers under strict government regulation is higher than the total benefit of 
“traceability” behavior, so producers choose the “not traceability” strategy. The second 
inequality p p p n nR C S R F− + > −  also shows that the total benefits obtained by the proces-
sor after adopting “traceability” are higher than the benefits of non-traceability minus the 
penalty, so the processor chooses the “traceability” strategy. In line with scenario 2, losses 
caused by permissive government regulation are higher than the sum of the incentives 
and regulatory costs, so the government maintains a strict regulatory strategy. 
The values in case 3 (in Table 4) meet the local stability scenario 3, and the evolution 
trajectory is illustrated in Figure 5. 
 
Figure 5. The evolutionary path of case 3. 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
time
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Producer
Processor
Government
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
time
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Producer
Processor
Government
Figure 5. The evolutionary path of case 3.
Scenario IV. When and Rp − Cp + Sp > Rn − Fn + Qp, the eigenvalues λ1, λ2 and λ3
to the equilibrium points E8(1, 1, 1) are all lower than zero. At this moment, the stable
evolutionary strategies of producers, processors and the government are {traceability,
traceability, strict regulation}. From the first inequality, found that producers choose
the “traceability” strategy when the total benefit of choosing the “traceability” behavior
is higher than the total benefit of choosing the “not traceability” behavior. Similarly,
processors choose the “traceability” strategy when the total benefits of traceability are
higher than the gross benefits of “not traceability”.
The values in case 4 (in Table 4) meet the local stability scenario 4, and the evolution
trajectory is shown in Figure 6. According to the evolutionary trajectory, it is clear that
government regulation is the most effective, and thus, scenario 4 is also the ideal state.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 14 of 21
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 15 of 23 
 
 
Scenario IV. When and p p p n n pR C S R F Q− + > − + , the eigenvalues 1 2,λ λ  and 3λ  to the 
equilibrium points 8 (1,1,1)E  are all lower than zero. At this moment, the stable evolution-
ary strategies of producers, processors and the government are {traceability, traceability, 
strict regulation}. From the first inequality, found that producers choose the “traceability” 
strategy when the total benefit of choosing the “traceability” behavior is higher than the 
total benefit of choosing the “not traceability” behavior. Similarly, processors choose the 
“traceability” strategy when the total benefits of traceability are higher than the gross ben-
efits of “not traceability”. 
The values in case 4 (in Table 4) meet the local stability scenario 4, and the evolution 
trajectory is shown in Figure 6. According to the evolutionary trajectory, it is clear that 
government regulation is the most effective, and thus, scenario 4 is also the ideal state. 
 
Figure 6. The evolutionary path of case 4. 
4.2. Influence of Traceability Benefits 
At first, we examined the sensitivity to traceability benefits by changing nR and pR  
to make evolutionary trajectory simulations for both producers and processors, as shown 
in Figures 7 and 8. 
In the initial state, the probability that a producer chooses a traceability strategy is 
low when the agricultural producer chooses a traceability strategy with a gain of 20, but 
then the probability shows an increasing trend, though at a slow speed. As the traceability 
benefit increases, the producer rapidly reaches equilibrium, as shown in Figure 7. Com-
pared with the agricultural producers, the processors’ evolutionary trajectory is even 
more sensitive to the effect of the traceability benefits. As the traceability benefits of pro-
cessors gradually increase, processors change from the initial “not traceability” strategy 
to the “traceability” strategy, and the more traceability benefits processors have, the faster 
it is to reach stability, as shown in Figure 8. If there is fraud and inadequate agricultural 
products, it will make the public doubt the effectiveness of government regulation. More-
over, it will negatively affect the reputation of the government in the long run, but since 
the price is much higher than the cost of strict regulation, government departments will 
choose the strategy of strict regulation. It is indicated that the amount of revenue gener-
ated after traceability is the main driving force for agricultural producers and processors 
to choose the “traceability” strategy. 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3
time
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Producer
Processor
Government
Figure 6. The evolutionary path of case 4.
4.2. Influence of Traceability Benefits
At first, we examined the sensitivity to traceability benefits by changing Rn and Rp to
make evolutionary trajectory simulations for both producers and processors, as shown in
Figures 7 and 8.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different traceability benefits. 
 
Figure 8. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different traceability benefits. 
4.3. Influence of Traceability Costs 
The cost of traceability is a critical factor hindering producers and processors from 
choosing the “traceability” strategy, as shown in Figures 9 and 10. 
With other conditions unchanged, when the traceability costs to producers and pro-
cessors are 20 and 30, respectively, both producers and processors eventually choose the 
“no traceability” strategy. However, when the traceability cost decreases to a certain 
threshold, producers and processors change their behavioral strategies and choose the 
“traceability” strategy, respectively. Moreover, it is easy to find that the less the traceabil-
ity cost is, the shorter the time it takes for each agent to evolve to a stable state. 
At the original stage where blockchain technology is applied to the traceability of 
agricultural products, agricultural producers and processors who choose the “traceabil-
ity” strategy need to purchase terminal RFID devices and related system software up-
dates, and they will incur high costs. Therefore, in the initial stage, due to the high cost of 
traceability, agricultural products producers and processors often choose the “no tracea-
bility” strategy. However, due to the government’s strict regulatory actions and subsidies 
for active “traceability”, the cost to producers and processors has been reduced to a certain 
extent, and with the decrease in traceability cost, they will gradually change their strate-
gies and choose traceability. 
Figure 7. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different traceability benefits.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 16 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different traceability benefits. 
 
Figure 8. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different traceability benefits. 
4.3. Influence of Traceability Costs 
The cost of traceability is a critical factor hindering producers and processors from 
choosing the “traceability” strategy, as shown in Figures 9 and 10. 
With other conditions unchanged, when the traceability costs to producers and pro-
cessors are 20 and 30, respectively, both producers and processors eventually choose the 
“no traceability” strategy. However, when the traceability cost decreases to a certain 
threshold, producers and processors change their behavioral strategies and choose the 
“traceability” strategy, respectively. Moreover, it is easy to find that the less the traceabil-
ity cost is, the shorter the time it takes for each agent to evolve to a stable state. 
At the original stage where blockchain technology is applied to the traceability of 
agricultural products, agricultural producers and processors who choose the “traceabil-
ity” strategy need to purchase terminal RFID devices and related system software up-
dates, and they will incur high costs. Therefore, in the initial stage, due to the high cost of 
traceability, agricultural products producers and processors often choose the “no tracea-
bility” strategy. However, due to the government’s strict regulatory actions and subsidies 
for active “traceability”, the cost to producers and processors has been reduced to a certain 
extent, and with the decrease in traceability cost, they will gradually change their strate-
gies and choose traceability. 
Figure 8. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different traceability benefits.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 15 of 21
In the initial state, the probability that a producer chooses a traceability strategy is low
when the agricultural producer chooses a traceability strategy with a gain of 20, but then the
probability shows an increasing trend, though at a slow speed. As the traceability benefit
increases, the producer rapidly reaches equilibrium, as shown in Figure 7. Compared with
the agricultural producers, the processors’ evolutionary trajectory is even more sensitive to
the effect of the traceability benefits. As the traceability benefits of processors gradually
increase, processors change from the initial “not traceability” strategy to the “traceability”
strategy, and the more traceability benefits processors have, the faster it is to reach stability,
as shown in Figure 8. If there is fraud and inadequate agricultural products, it will make
the public doubt the effectiveness of government regulation. Moreover, it will negatively
affect the reputation of the government in the long run, but since the price is much higher
than the cost of strict regulation, government departments will choose the strategy of strict
regulation. It is indicated that the amount of revenue generated after traceability is the main
driving force for agricultural producers and processors to choose the “traceability” strategy.
4.3. Influence of Traceability Costs
The cost of traceability is a critical factor hindering producers and processors from
choosing the “traceability” strategy, as shown in Figures 9 and 10.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 17 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different traceability costs. 
 
Figure 10. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different traceability costs. 
4.4. Influence of Free-Riding Benefits 
Similarly to traceability costs, free-riding benefits can deter producers and processors 
from choosing a “traceability” strategy, as shown in Figures 11 and 12. 
In an agricultural supply chain that contains producers and processors, when only 
one of them chooses the “traceability” strategy, it will actively affect the general benefits 
of the supply chain, so the other obtains a corresponding “free-rider” benefit. However, 
when one of the two parties gains substantial “free-rider” benefits because the other party 
chooses the “traceability” strategy, the producer or processor will tend to avoid the “trace-
ability” strategy. Only when the “free-rider” benefit is less than a certain threshold, i.e., 
the “free-rider” benefit is less than the profit-cost of choosing the “traceability” strategy, 
will the subject choose the “traceability” strategy. 
In general, whether producers and processors choose a “traceability” strategy is in-
fluenced not only by the cost–benefit balance, but also by the “free-riding” benefits when 
they choose a “no traceability” strategy. The impact is not only affected by the cost–benefit 
balance but also by the “free-rider” benefit when choosing the “no traceability” strategy. 
Therefore, in order to make the whole system reach the ideal state in a short time after the 
implementation of a blockchain-based agricultural traceability system, it is not enough to 
rely on enterprises to improve digital technology and reduce costs, but also requires gov-
ernment intervention and regulation to avoid free-riding behavior. 
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
C
h
=10
C
h
=15
C
h
=20
x
y
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
C
p
=20
C
p
=25
C
p
=30
x
y
Figure 9. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different traceability costs.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 17 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different traceability costs. 
 
Figure 10. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different traceability costs. 
4.4. Influence of Free-Riding Benefits 
Similarly to traceability costs, free-riding benefits can deter producers and processors 
from choosing a “traceability” strategy, as shown in Figures 11 and 12. 
In an agricultural supply chain that contains producers and processors, when only 
one of them chooses the “traceability” strategy, it will actively affect the general benefits 
of the supply chain, so the other obtains a corresponding “free-rider” benefit. However, 
when one of the two parties gains substantial “free-rider” benefits because the other party 
chooses the “traceability” strategy, the producer or processor will tend to avoid the “trace-
ability” strategy. Only when the “free-rider” benefit is less than a certain threshold, i.e., 
the “free-rider” benefit is less than the profit-cost of choosing the “traceability” strategy, 
will the subject choose the “traceability” strategy. 
In general, whether producers and processors choose a “traceability” strategy is in-
fluenced not only by the cost–benefit balance, but also by the “free-riding” benefits when 
they choose a “no traceability” strategy. The impact is not only affected by the cost–benefit 
balance but also by the “free-rider” benefit when choosing the “no traceability” strategy. 
Therefore, in order to make the whole system reach the ideal state in a short time after the 
implementation of a blockchain-based agricultural traceability system, it is not enough to 
rely on enterprises to improve digital technology and reduce costs, but also requires gov-
ernment intervention and regulation to avoid free-riding behavior. 
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
C
h
=10
C
h
=15
C
h
=20
x
y
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
C
p
=20
C
p
=25
C
p
=30
x
y
Figure 10. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different traceability costs.
With other conditions unchanged, when the traceability costs to producers and proces-
sors are 20 and 30, respectively, both producers and processors eventually choose the “no
traceability” strategy. However, when the traceability cost decreases to a certain threshold,
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 16 of 21
producers and processors change their behavioral strategies and choose the “traceability”
strategy, respectively. Moreover, it is easy to find that the less the traceability cost is, the
shorter the time it takes for each agent to evolve to a stable state.
At the original stage where blockchain technology is applied to the traceability of
agricultural products, agricultural producers and processors who choose the “traceability”
strategy need to purchase terminal RFID devices and related system software updates, and
they will incur high costs. Therefore, in the initial stage, due to the high cost of traceability,
agricultural products producers and processors often choose the “no traceability” strat-
egy. However, due to the government’s strict regulatory actions and subsidies for active
“traceability”, the cost to producers and processors has been reduced to a certain extent,
and with the decrease in traceability cost, they will gradually change their strategies and
choose traceability.
4.4. Influence of Free-Riding Benefits
Similarly to traceability costs, free-riding benefits can deter producers and processors
from choosing a “traceability” strategy, as shown in Figures 11 and 12.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different free-riding benefits. 
 
Figure 12. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different free-riding benefits. 
4.5. Analysis of the Effectiveness of Government Subsidies and Penalties 
To explore the extent of the impact of subsidies and penalties on the traceability of 
agricultural products, we increase the values of lF  and hS  separately for sensitivity 
analysis under the parameter setting conditions of scenario 1. Their evolutionary trajecto-
ries are shown in Figure 13. 
It can be seen that agricultural producers eventually choose the “no traceability” 
strategy in the initial state ( 6, 12l hF S= = ), and yet, as the value of subsidies or penalties 
increases, agricultural producers will change their strategies to choose traceability. In the 
meantime, when government subsidies and penalties are increased by the same value, 
respectively, the final evolution of agricultural producers converges faster to 1 when sub-
sidies are increased, so agricultural producers are more sensitive to changes in subsidies. 
In other words, increasing the subsidy hS  for the traceability of agricultural products is 
more effective in motivating agricultural producers to choose the “traceability” strategy 
than increasing the penalty lF  of the same volume. 
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
Q
l
=2
Q
l
=6
Q
l
=10
x
y
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
Q
p
=1
Q
p
=5
Q
p
=11
x
y
Figure 11. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different free-riding benefits.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 18 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of producers under different free-riding benefits. 
 
Figure 12. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different free-riding benefits. 
4.5. Analysis of the Effectiveness of Government Subsidies and Penalties 
To explore the extent of the impact of subsidies and penalties on the traceability of 
agricultural products, we increase the values of lF  and hS  separately for sensitivity 
analysis under the parameter setting conditions of scenario 1. Their evolutionary trajecto-
ries are shown in Figure 13. 
It can be seen that agricultural producers eventually choose the “no traceability” 
strategy in the initial state ( 6, 12l hF S= = ), and yet, as the value of subsidies or penalties 
increases, agricultural producers will change their strategies to choose traceability. In the 
meantime, when government subsidies and penalties are increased by the same value, 
respectively, the final evolution of agricultural producers converges faster to 1 when sub-
sidies are increased, so agricultural producers are more sensitive to changes in subsidies. 
In other words, increasing the subsidy hS  for the traceability of agricultural products is 
more effective in motivating agricultural producers to choose the “traceability” strategy 
than increasing the penalty lF  of the same volume. 
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
Q
l
=2
Q
l
=6
Q
l
=10
x
y
0
1
0.2
0.4
0.8 1
0.6
0.6 0.8
0.8
0.60.4
1
0.40.2 0.2
0 0
Q
p
=1
Q
p
=5
Q
p
=11
x
y
Figure 12. Simulation of evolutionary strategies of processors under different free-riding benefits.
In an agricultural supply chain that contains producers and processors, when only one
of them chooses the “traceability” strategy, it will actively affect the general benefits of the
supply chain, so the other obtains a corresponding “free-rider” benefit. However, when one
of the two parties gains substantial “free-rider” benefits because the other party chooses
the “traceability” strategy, the producer or processor will tend to avoid the “traceability”
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 17 of 21
strategy. Only when the “free-rider” benefit is less than a certain threshold, i.e., the “free-
rider” benefit is less than the profit-cost of choosing the “traceability” strategy, will the
subject choose the “traceability” strategy.
In general, whether producers and processors choose a “traceability” strategy is
influenced not only by the cost–benefit balance, but also by the “free-riding” benefits when
they choose a “no traceability” strategy. The impact is not only affected by the cost–benefit
balance but also by the “free-rider” benefit when choosing the “no traceability” strategy.
Therefore, in order to make the whole system reach the ideal state in a short time after the
implementation of a blockchain-based agricultural traceability system, it is not enough
to rely on enterprises to improve digital technology and reduce costs, but also requires
government intervention and regulation to avoid free-riding behavior.
4.5. Analysis of the Effectiveness of Government Subsidies and Penalties
To explore the extent of the impact of subsidies and penalties on the traceability of
agricultural products, we increase the values of Fl and Sh separately for sensitivity analysis
under the parameter setting conditions of scenario 1. Their evolutionary trajectories are
shown in Figure 13.
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 13. The sensitivity of subsidies and penalties for producer. 
Likewise, as shown in Figure 14, processors eventually choose the “no traceability” 
strategy in the initial state ( 10, 15l hF S= = ); when the value of subsidies or penalties in-
creases, processors will change their strategies to choose traceability. In addition, when 
government subsidies and penalties are increased by the same value, respectively, the 
evolutionary trajectories of processors converges faster to 1 when subsidies are increased, 
indicating that processors are more sensitive to changes in subsidies. Moreover, increas-
ing the subsidy hS  for traceability of agricultural products is more conducive to encour-
aging processors to choose the “traceability” strategy compared to adding the penalty lF  
of the same volume. 
 
Figure 14. The sensitivity of subsidies and penalties for processor. 
5. Conclusions and Implications 
5.1. Conclusions 
Blockchain-enabled traceability for agricultural supply chains immensely eases the 
identification and recall of fraudulent, substandard quality batches in the supply chain, 
significantly reducing the costs associated with the loss of distribution and harm to human 
health. Additionally, implementing a blockchain-enabled traceability system requires the 
engagement of all participants in the supply chain—producers, processors and govern-
ments. In order to assess the diverse motivations for all stakeholders to participate in a 
system that promotes visibility, a tripartite game model of producers, processors and the 
government was constructed. By exploring the game payoffs under different strategic 
choices among multiple agents, we analyze the long-term evolutionary behavior and 
pr
op
or
tio
n
pr
op
or
tio
n
Figure 13. The sensitivity of subsidies and penalties for producer.
It can be seen that agricultural producers eventually choose the “no traceability”
strategy in the initial state (Fl = 6, Sh = 12), and yet, as the value of subsidies or penalties
increases, agricultural producers will change their strategies to choose traceability. In the
meantime, when government subsidies and penalties are increased by the same value,
respectively, the final evolution of agricultural producers converges faster to 1 when
subsidies are increased, so agricultural producers are more sensitive to changes in subsidies.
In other words, increasing the subsidy Sh for the traceability of agricultural products is
more effective in motivating agricultural producers to choose the “traceability” strategy
than increasing the penalty Fl of the same volume.
Likewise, as shown in Figure 14, processors eventually choose the “no traceability”
strategy in the initial state (Fl = 10, Sh = 15); when the value of subsidies or penalties
increases, processors will change their strategies to choose traceability. In addition, when
government subsidies and penalties are increased by the same value, respectively, the
evolutionary trajectories of processors converges faster to 1 when subsidies are increased,
indicating that processors are more sensitive to changes in subsidies. Moreover, increasing
the subsidy Sh for traceability of agricultural products is more conducive to encouraging
processors to choose the “traceability” strategy compared to adding the penalty Fl of the
same volume.
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 18 of 21
Agriculture 2023, 13, x FOR PEER REVIEW 19 of 23 
 
 
 
Figure 13. The sensitivity of subsidies and penalties for producer. 
Likewise, as shown in Figure 14, processors eventually choose the “no traceability” 
strategy in the initial state ( 10, 15l hF S= = ); when the value of subsidies or penalties in-
creases, processors will change their strategies to choose traceability. In addition, when 
government subsidies and penalties are increased by the same value, respectively, the 
evolutionary trajectories of processors converges faster to 1 when subsidies are increased, 
indicating that processors are more sensitive to changes in subsidies. Moreover, increas-
ing the subsidy hS  for traceability of agricultural products is more conducive to encour-
aging processors to choose the “traceability” strategy compared to adding the penalty lF  
of the same volume. 
 
Figure 14. The sensitivity of subsidies and penalties for processor. 
5. Conclusions and Implications 
5.1. Conclusions 
Blockchain-enabled traceability for agricultural supply chains immensely eases the 
identification and recall of fraudulent, substandard quality batches in the supply chain, 
significantly reducing the costs associated with the loss of distribution and harm to human 
health. Additionally, implementing a blockchain-enabled traceability system requires the 
engagement of all participants in the supply chain—producers, processors and govern-
ments. In order to assess the diverse motivations for all stakeholders to participate in a 
system that promotes visibility, a tripartite game model of producers, processors and the 
government was constructed. By exploring the game payoffs under different strategic 
choices among multiple agents, we analyze the long-term evolutionary behavior and 
pr
op
or
tio
n
pr
op
or
tio
n
Figure 14. The sensitivity of subsidies and penalties for processor.
5. Conclusions and Implications
5.1. Conclusions
Blockchain-enabled traceability for agricultural supply chains immensely eases the
identification and recall of fraudulent, substandard quality batches in the supply chain,
significantly reducing the costs associated with the loss of distribution and harm to human
health. Additionally, implementing a blockchain-enabled traceability system requires the
engagement of all participants in the supply chain—producers, processors and govern-
ments. In order to assess the diverse motivations for all stakeholders to participate in
a system that promotes visibility, a tripartite game model of producers, processors and
the government was constructed. By exploring the game payoffs under different strate-
gic choices among multiple agents, we analyze the long-term evolutionary behavior and
strategic adaption mechanisms of producers, processors and governments, and probe the
impact of changes in key factors on the evolutionary trajectory of the game agents’ strategic
choices. The following main conclusions were obtained.
(1) Government agencies act as the initiator for introducing agricultural traceability
systems when the social benefits of their strict regulatory actions to preclude the occurrence
of agricultural commodities fraud and safety issues outweigh the costs of strict government
regulation. Therefore, government agencies will consistently adopt a strict regulatory
strategy to guide producers and processors to gradually adopt “traceability” with incentives
and penalties.
(2) In the long term, there are three stages to implementing a blockchain-enabled
traceability for agricultural products. First, despite the government’s strict regulatory
strategy as an advocate, both producers and processors are hesitant to adopt a “traceability”
strategy due to factors such as the limited digital technology infrastructure for producers
and the high cost for processors to integrate blockchain-enabled traceability platforms into
their existing operations. Second, during the development stage, the government’s strict
regulations via reward-and-punishment mechanisms are gradually becoming effective, and
to some extent, they prompt producers or processors to adjust their strategies and choose
“traceability”. It is noteworthy that in this stage, producers and processors may adopt free-
riding behavior, which hinders the emergence of “traceability”. For producers, the higher
the benefits of free-riding, the lower the probability that they will adopt a “traceability”
strategy, and when the benefits of free-riding are beyond a certain threshold, the producer
will eventually evolve a stable strategy that converges to zero, i.e., choosing a “no retrospec-
tive” strategy. Similarly, for processors, the higher the free-riding benefits when adopting
the “not traceability” strategy, the lower their desire to adopt the blockchain traceability
strategy. Third, as the incentives and penalties of strict government regulation continue
to advance, the benefits under the “traceability” strategy to producers and processors at
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 19 of 21
this time exceed the costs, so the evolutionary trajectories both converge to 1; meanwhile,
the three-dimensional dynamical system reaches a stable status where the evolutionary
equilibrium point is (1, 1, 1).
(3) There are differences in the extent to which governments adopt subsidies or
penalties to encourage blockchain-enabled traceability. By giving the same level of subsidies
and penalties to producers and processors, and by comparing the evolutionary trajectories
under different conditions, it can be seen that the subsidies have a stronger effect on the
“traceability” behavior of the participants than the penalties. In other words, the subsidy
mechanism is more effective than the penalty mechanism for “traceability” behavior.
5.2. Policy Implications
Based on the above conclusions, the following policy suggestions are put forward:
(1) In the case of the government, to enhance transparency and traceability in the agri-
cultural supply chain, the government should play a supporting role in blockchain-enabled
traceability through grants, subsidies and support services. Subsidies should be provided
to participants who actively join a system of agricultural commodities traceability, while
penalties should be increased for subjects who do not join the agricultural commodities
traceability system as required; this will urge the subjects involved in the agricultural
supply chain to actively participate in agricultural commodities traceability and improve
supply chain transparency and traceability, so that consumers can fully understand the
origin of products. For producers, the government can improve the education, training and
publicity of cultural and digital technologies for the population in rural areas. In addition,
the government can strengthen the digital network coverage and other digital infrastructure
in remote rural areas. For processors, the government can provide consultancy services,
providing a blockchain technology incubation hub for processors with blockchain solutions
to quickly complete technology upgrades and data migration.
(2) In the case of the producers, firstly, producers should strengthen their own learning
and master the use of smart devices to improve the scientific management of agricultural
products, from breeding and cultivation to harvesting, thereby reducing the risk of loss.
Secondly, producers should pay attention to the improvement of their own cultural back-
ground and actively participate in digital technology training courses to improve their
basic digital technology mastery. Finally, producers will be able to expand their markets
by participating in blockchain projects and establish direct connections with consumers to
reduce transaction costs.
(3) In the case of the processors, firstly, they should take care to integrate existing
operations into the blockchain platform and invest some costs to ensure that existing
data can be migrated to the blockchain platform smoothly. In addition, processors could
be able to improve their brand image and attract those conscious consumers through
blockchain traceability.
In this paper, the strategy choice of the game players is mainly influenced by factors
such as the expected benefit–cost balance, retrospective subsidy and “free-riding” effect.
However, the trustiness of each player in the blockchain traceability is also an important
variable influencing strategy selection, which needs to be further explored in subsequent
studies. Although decision making for blockchain traceability projects is a complex systemic
problem, other stakeholders in the agricultural supply chain are not considered in the model.
Hence, further development of the game model will be the focus of future research.
The above results could provide inspiration for small-scale producers in agricultural
traceability systems to gain access to global markets and connect directly with consumers,
processors to enhance their brand image, and governments to formulate policies for agri-
cultural quality and safety regulation. However, there are still some constraints: the
agricultural supply chain involves many agents and complicated processes, and this paper
only examines the behavioral decision-making relationships among producers, processors
and the government, while the adoption and implementation of blockchain traceability in
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 20 of 21
the agricultural product supply chain combined with more actual cases may be the future
research direction.
Author Contributions: Y.Z. is mainly responsible for writing the original draft and constructing the
models. Y.X. is mainly responsible for the methodology and software, and the improvement of the
language and grammar. Z.Q. is mainly responsible for writing—review and editing. All authors have
read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This work was supported by Heilongjiang Provincial Natural Science Foundation of China,
grant number LH2021F035.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Saurabh, S.; Dey, K. Blockchain technology adoption, architecture, and sustainable agri-food supply chains. J. Clean. Prod. 2021,
284, 124731. [CrossRef]
2. Khan, H.H.; Malik, M.N.; Konecna, Z.; Chofreh, A.G.; Goni, F.A.; Klemes, J.J. Blockchain technology for agricultural supply
chains during the COVID-19 pandemic: Benefits and cleaner solutions. J. Clean. Prod. 2022, 347, 131268. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
3. Rudoy, D.; Bingzhang, L.; Zirianov, V.; Olshevskaya, A.; Ugrekhelidze, N. Blockchain in agricultural supply chain management.
E3S Web Conf. 2021, 273, 08029. [CrossRef]
4. Tanwar, S.; Parekh, K.; Evans, R. Blockchain-based electronic healthcare record system for healthcare 4.0 applications. J. Inf. Secur.
Appl. 2020, 50, 102407. [CrossRef]
5. Collart, A.J.; Canales, E. How might broad adoption of blockchain-based traceability impact the U.S. fresh produce supply chain?
Appl. Econ. Perspect. Policy 2021, 44, 219–236. [CrossRef]
6. Chen, S.; Liu, X.; Yan, J.; Hu, G.; Shi, Y. Processes, benefits, and challenges for adoption of blockchain technologies in food supply
chains: A thematic analysis. Inf. Syst. e-Bus. Manag. 2020, 19, 909–935. [CrossRef]
7. Vu, N.; Ghadge, A.; Bourlakis, M. Blockchain adoption in food supply chains: a review and implementation framework. Prod.
Plan. Control. 2021. [CrossRef]
8. Sunny, J.; Undralla, N.; Madhusudanan Pillai, V. Supply chain transparency through blockchain-based traceability: An overview
with demonstration. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2020, 150, 106895–106946. [CrossRef]
9. Hosseini-Motlagh, S.-M.; Choi, T.-M.; Johari, M.; Nouri-Harzvili, M. A profit surplus distribution mechanism for supply chain
coordination: An evolutionary game-theoretic analysis. Eur. J. Oper. Res. 2022, 301, 561–575. [CrossRef]
10. Kouhizadeh, M.; Saberi, S.; Sarkis, J. Blockchain technology and the sustainable supply chain: Theoretically exploring adoption
barriers. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2021, 231, 107831. [CrossRef]
11. Ktari, J.; Frikha, T.; Chaabane, F.; Hamdi, M.; Hamam, H. Agricultural Lightweight Embedded Blockchain System: A Case Study
in Olive Oil. Electronics 2022, 11, 3394. [CrossRef]
12. Lim, M.K.; Li, Y.; Wang, C.; Tseng, M.-L. A literature review of blockchain technology applications in supply chains: A
comprehensive analysis of themes, methodologies and industries. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2021, 154, 107133. [CrossRef]
13. Bai, C.; Sarkis, J. A supply chain transparency and sustainability technology appraisal model for blockchain technology. Int. J.
Prod. Res. 2020, 58, 2142–2162. [CrossRef]
14. Creydt, M.; Fischer, M. Blockchain and more—Algorithm driven food traceability. Food Control. 2019, 105, 45–51. [CrossRef]
15. Pillai, B.; Biswas, K.; Muthukkumarasamy, V. Cross-chain interoperability among blockchain-based systems using transactions.
Knowl. Eng. Rev. 2020, 35, e23. [CrossRef]
16. Dutta, P.; Choi, T.M.; Somani, S.; Butala, R. Blockchain technology in supply chain operations: Applications, challenges and
research opportunities. Transp. Res. E Logist. Transp. Rev. 2020, 142, 102067. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
17. Wang, Z.; Wang, T.; Hu, H.; Gong, J.; Ren, X.; Xiao, Q. Blockchain-based framework for improving supply chain traceability and
information sharing in precast construction. Autom. Constr. 2020, 111, 103063. [CrossRef]
18. Lin, W.; Huang, X.; Fang, H.; Wang, V.; Hua, Y.; Wang, J.; Yin, H.; Yi, D.; Yau, L. Blockchain Technology in Current Agricultural
Systems: From Techniques to Applications. IEEE Access 2020, 8, 143920–143937. [CrossRef]
19. Mukherjee, A.A.; Singh, R.K.; Mishra, R.; Bag, S. Application of blockchain technology for sustainability development in
agricultural supply chain: Justification framework. Oper. Manag. Res. 2021, 15, 46–61. [CrossRef]
20. Walsh, C.; O’Reilly, P.; Gleasure, R.; McAvoy, J.; O’Leary, K. Understanding manager resistance to blockchain systems. Eur. Manag.
J. 2021, 39, 353–365. [CrossRef]
21. Wang, Q.; Su, M. Integrating blockchain technology into the energy sector—From theory of blockchain to research and application
of energy blockchain. Comput. Sci. Rev. 2020, 37, 100275. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2020.124731
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2022.131268
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35287337
http://doi.org/10.1051/e3sconf/202127308029
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jisa.2019.102407
http://doi.org/10.1002/aepp.13134
http://doi.org/10.1007/s10257-020-00467-3
http://doi.org/10.1080/09537287.2021.1939902
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.106895
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ejor.2021.10.059
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2020.107831
http://doi.org/10.3390/electronics11203394
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2021.107133
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2019.1708989
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodcont.2019.05.019
http://doi.org/10.1017/S0269888920000314
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2020.102067
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/33013183
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.autcon.2019.103063
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3014522
http://doi.org/10.1007/s12063-021-00180-5
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.emj.2020.10.001
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cosrev.2020.100275
Agriculture 2023, 13, 184 21 of 21
22. Kayikci, Y.; Subramanian, N.; Dora, M.; Bhatia, M.S. Food supply chain in the era of Industry 4.0: Blockchain technology
implementation opportunities and impediments from the perspective of people, process, performance, and technology. Prod.
Plan. Control. 2020, 33, 301–321. [CrossRef]
23. Centobelli, P.; Cerchione, R.; Vecchio, P.D.; Oropallo, E.; Secundo, G. Blockchain technology for bridging trust, traceability and
transparency in circular supply chain. Inf. Manag. 2022, 59, 103508. [CrossRef]
24. Kittipanya-ngam, P.; Tan, K.H. A framework for food supply chain digitalization: Lessons from Thailand. Prod. Plan. Control.
2019, 31, 158–172. [CrossRef]
25. Liu, Z.; Li, Z. A blockchain-based framework of cross-border e-commerce supply chain. Int. J. Inf. Manag. 2020, 52, 102059.
[CrossRef]
26. Fan, Z.-P.; Wu, X.-Y.; Cao, B.-B. Considering the traceability awareness of consumers: Should the supply chain adopt the
blockchain technology? Ann. Oper. Res. 2020, 309, 837–860. [CrossRef]
27. Cao, S.; Powell, W.; Foth, M.; Natanelov, V.; Miller, T.; Dulleck, U. Strengthening consumer trust in beef supply chain traceability
with a blockchain-based human-machine reconcile mechanism. Comput. Electron. Agric. 2021, 180, 105886. [CrossRef]
28. Zhu, Z.; Chu, F.; Dolgui, A.; Chu, C.; Zhou, W.; Piramuthu, S. Recent advances and opportunities in sustainable food supply
chain: A model-oriented review. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2018, 56, 5700–5722. [CrossRef]
29. Tian, F. An agri-food supply chain traceability system for China based on RFID & blockchain technology. In Proceedings of the
2016 13th international Conference on Service Systems and Service Management (ICSSSM), Kunming, China, 24–26 June 2016;
pp. 1–6.
30. Behnke, K.; Janssen, M. Boundary conditions for traceability in food supply chains using blockchain technology. Int. J. Inf. Manag.
2020, 52, 101969. [CrossRef]
31. George, R.V.; Harsh, H.O.; Ray, P.; Babu, A.K. Food quality traceability prototype for restaurants using blockchain and food
quality data index. J. Clean. Prod. 2019, 240, 118021. [CrossRef]
32. Zheng, X.R.; Lu, Y. Blockchain technology—Recent research and future trend. Enterp. Inf. Syst. 2021, 16, 1939895. [CrossRef]
33. Antonucci, F.; Figorilli, S.; Costa, C.; Pallottino, F.; Raso, L.; Menesatti, P. A review on blockchain applications in the agri-food
sector. J. Sci. Food Agric. 2019, 99, 6129–6138. [CrossRef]
34. Salah, K.; Nizamuddin, N.; Jayaraman, R.; Omar, M. Blockchain-Based Soybean Traceability in Agricultural Supply Chain. IEEE
Access 2019, 7, 73295–73305. [CrossRef]
35. Wang, J.; Zhang, X.; Xu, J.; Wang, X.; Li, H.; Zhao, Z.; Kong, J. Blockchain-Based Information Supervision Model for Rice Supply
Chains. Comput. Intell. Neurosci. 2022, 2022, 2914571. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
36. Wu, X.-Y.; Fan, Z.-P.; Cao, B.-B. An analysis of strategies for adopting blockchain technology in the fresh product supply chain.
Int. J. Prod. Res. 2021, 1–18. [CrossRef]
37. Hu, S.; Huang, S.; Huang, J.; Su, J. Blockchain and edge computing technology enabling organic agricultural supply chain: A
framework solution to trust crisis. Comput. Ind. Eng. 2021, 153, 107079. [CrossRef]
38. Wang, F.; Xu, Y. Evolutionary Game Analysis of the Quality of Agricultural Products in Supply Chain. Agriculture 2022, 12, 1575.
[CrossRef]
39. Kamble, S.S.; Gunasekaran, A.; Sharma, R. Modeling the blockchain enabled traceability in agriculture supply chain. Int. J. Inf.
Manag. 2020, 52, 101967. [CrossRef]
40. Yuan, M.; Li, Z.; Li, X.; Li, L.; Zhang, S.; Luo, X. How to promote the sustainable development of prefabricated residential
buildings in China: A tripartite evolutionary game analysis. J. Clean. Prod. 2022, 349, 131423. [CrossRef]
41. Wang, S.; Xu, Y. Complex Network-Based Evolutionary Game for Knowledge Transfer of Social E-Commerce Platform Enterprise’s
Operation Team under Strategy Imitation Preferences. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15383. [CrossRef]
42. Xuan, S.; Zheng, L.; Chung, I.; Wang, W.; Man, D.; Du, X.; Yang, W.; Guizani, M. An incentive mechanism for data sharing based
on blockchain with smart contracts. Comput. Electr. Eng. 2020, 83, 106587. [CrossRef]
43. Motepalli, S.; Jacobsen, H.-A. Reward mechanism for blockchains using evolutionary game theory. In Proceedings of the 2021
3rd Conference on Blockchain Research & Applications for Innovative Networks and Services (BRAINS), Paris, France, 27–30
September 2021; pp. 217–224.
44. Xiong, H.; Dalhaus, T.; Wang, P.; Huang, J. Blockchain Technology for Agriculture: Applications and Rationale. Front. Blockchain
2020, 3, 7. [CrossRef]
45. Hameed, M.A.; Counsell, S.; Swift, S. A conceptual model for the process of IT innovation adoption in organizations. J. Eng.
Technol. Manag. 2012, 29, 358–390. [CrossRef]
46. Laborde, D.; Martin, W.; Swinnen, J.; Vos, R. COVID-19 risks to global food security. Science 2020, 369, 500–502. [CrossRef]
[PubMed]
47. Ritzberger, K.; Weibull, J.W. Evolutionary Selection in Normal-Form Games. Econometrica 1995, 63, 1371–1399. [CrossRef]
48. Lyapunov, A.M. The general problem of the stability of motion. Int. J. Control. 1992, 55, 531–534. [CrossRef]
Disclaimer/Publisher’s Note: The statements, opinions and data contained in all publications are solely those of the individual
author(s) and contributor(s) and not of MDPI and/or the editor(s). MDPI and/or the editor(s) disclaim responsibility for any injury to
people or property resulting from any ideas, methods, instructions or products referred to in the content.
http://doi.org/10.1080/09537287.2020.1810757
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.im.2021.103508
http://doi.org/10.1080/09537287.2019.1631462
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.102059
http://doi.org/10.1007/s10479-020-03729-y
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compag.2020.105886
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1425014
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.05.025
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.118021
http://doi.org/10.1080/17517575.2021.1939895
http://doi.org/10.1002/jsfa.9912
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2918000
http://doi.org/10.1155/2022/2914571
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/35392045
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2021.1894497
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cie.2020.107079
http://doi.org/10.3390/agriculture12101575
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijinfomgt.2019.05.023
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2022.131423
http://doi.org/10.3390/su142215383
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.compeleceng.2020.106587
http://doi.org/10.3389/fbloc.2020.00007
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jengtecman.2012.03.007
http://doi.org/10.1126/science.abc4765
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/32732407
http://doi.org/10.2307/2171774
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207179208934253
	Introduction 
	Literature Review and Theoretical Framework 
	The Mechanisms of Blockchains 
	Blockchain-Based Traceability in Agri-Food Supply Chain 
	Evolutionary Game Theory 
	Materials and Methods 
	Model Assumption 
	Replicator Dynamic 
	Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Producers 
	Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Processors 
	Expected Payoffs and Strategy Stability Analysis of Local Governments 
	Analysis of ESS 
	Numerical Simulation 
	Results of Analysis 
	Influence of Traceability Benefits 
	Influence of Traceability Costs 
	Influence of Free-Riding Benefits 
	Analysis of the Effectiveness of Government Subsidies and Penalties 
	Conclusions and Implications 
	Conclusions 
	Policy Implications 
	References