Decentralized recommender system for ambient intelligence of tourism destinations serious game using known and unknown rating approach
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
Available online 5 March 2023
2405-8440/© 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).
Research article 
Decentralized recommender system for ambient intelligence of 
tourism destinations serious game using known and unknown 
rating approach 
Yunifa Miftachul Arif a,*, Duvan Deswantara Putra a, Dyah Wardani a, 
Supeno Mardi Susiki Nugroho b, Mochamad Hariadi b 
a Department of Informatics Engineering, Universitas Islam Negeri Maulana Malik Ibrahim, Malang, Indonesia 
b Department of Computer Engineering, Institut Teknologi Sepuluh Nopember, Surabaya, Indonesia   
A R T I C L E  I N F O   
Keywords: 
Serious game 
Ambient intelligence 
Recommender system 
Tourism destinations 
MCRS 
Decentralized 
Blockchain 
A B S T R A C T   
Tourism destinations serious game (TDSG) requires the ability to respond to players through 
recommendations for selecting appropriate tourist destinations for them as potential tourists. This 
research utilizes ambient intelligence technology to regulate the response visualized through a 
choice of serious game scenarios. This research uses the Multi-Criteria Recommender System 
(MCRS) to produce recommendations for selecting tourist destinations as a reference for selecting 
scenario visualizations. Recommender systems require a decentralized, distributed, and secure 
data-sharing concept to distribute data and assignments between nodes. We propose using the 
Ethereum blockchain platform to handle data circulation between parts of the system and 
implement decentralized technology. We also use the known and unknown rating (KUR) 
approach to improve the system’s ability to generate recommendations for players who can 
provide rating values or those who cannot. This study uses the tourism theme of Batu City, 
Indonesia, so we use personal characteristics (PC) and rating of destinations attribute (RDA) data 
for tourists in that city. The test results show that the blockchain can handle decentralized data- 
sharing well to ensure PC and RDA data circulation between nodes. MCRS has produced rec-
ommendations for players based on the KUR approach, indicating that the known rating has 
better accuracy than the unknown rating. Furthermore, the player can choose and run the tour 
visualization through game scenarios that appear based on the recommendation ranking results.   
1. Introduction 
1.1. Background 
A serious game is one of the most interesting pedagogical media products to research and development. This type of game is an 
interactive technology development that includes education, simulation, visualization, analysis, and training [1,2]. International 
organizations have even used serious games to teach and train skilled content [3]. Serious games help players increase their knowledge 
and skills on content without neglecting the fun elements that characterize a game [4]. When playing a serious game, the player’s 
* Corresponding author. 
E-mail address: yunif4@ti.uin-malang.ac.id (Y.M. Arif).  
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect 
Heliyon 
journal homepage: www.cell.com/heliyon 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e14267 
Received 14 January 2022; Received in revised form 28 February 2023; Accepted 28 February 2023   
mailto:yunif4@ti.uin-malang.ac.id
www.sciencedirect.com/science/journal/24058440
https://www.cell.com/heliyon
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e14267
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e14267
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e14267&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2023.e14267
http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
2
concentration becomes active to enjoy the game scenario flow well. The following effect increases learning effectiveness through the 
game features [5]. Researchers and game developers use serious games in various fields, for example, health monitoring [6], consumer 
engagement [7], employment-oriented [8], transaction simulation [9], soil tillage [10], engineering education [11], and safety ed-
ucation [12]. 
Another area that still has the prospect of a broad implementation of the serious game is tourism. A serious game in the tourism 
sector is a promotional medium for developers to introduce their tourist destination brands [13] to increase tourist arrivals at tourist 
destinations [14]. Its implementation in the tourism sector can increase players’ knowledge and travel experience as potential tourists 
[15,16]. Knowledge and information about tourist destinations for potential tourists are essential things they must have, especially in 
the initial phase of the trip, namely before the trip [17]. This knowledge becomes the basis for determining tourist destinations to visit 
before preparing and planning a trip. Recommendations as knowledge content in the game can be visualized through automatic 
scenario changes. In this study, a serious game is used to transfer knowledge about recommended tourist destination choices to players, 
called the Tourism Destination Serious Game (TDSG). 
This research offers ambient intelligence as technical support integrated into it to increase players’ comfort, connectedness, and 
interest with TDSG. Ambient intelligence is a virtual environment development technology that can respond adaptively to users. A 
virtual environment with intelligent ambient has several characteristics, including sensitive, responsive, adaptive, transparent, 
ubiquitous, and intelligent [18]. The presence of ambient intelligence in the game is expected to increase interest and understanding 
through the suitability of visualization of knowledge based on awareness of the present, needs, and characteristics or preferences of 
players [19]. Systems in an ambient intelligence environment can detect and interpret human activity and provide multimedia 
feedback to provide guidance, recommendations, and learning [20]. In TDSG, multimedia feedback can be visualized in the form of 
changes in the choice of travel scenarios set automatically in the game. The scenario represents the choice of recommended tourist 
destinations through serious games. Therefore, an integrated recommendation system is needed in the serious game to determine 
recommendations for selecting tourist destinations according to player preference data. 
In this study, the recommender system is an essential part of producing recommendations for selecting tourist destinations to 
reference the ambient intelligence serious game system response to players. A game needs recommender system support to generate 
valuable knowledge about object or item selection [21]. Recommender System (RS) is an intelligent system that provides recom-
mended item choices to the user [22]. RS generally has three models: Collaborative Filtering, Content-Based Filtering, and Hybrid 
System [23,24]. This system is used in various applications to recommend videos, music, news, tourism, and scientific papers [25]. 
Some large applications also use RS to provide recommendation options to their users such as Google, Youtube, Amazon, and Netflix 
[26,27]. Two approaches are commonly used to predict user-recommended item selection, including single criteria and multi-criteria 
[28]. Of the two approaches, the Multi-Criteria Recommender System (MCRS) has better capability and accuracy [29] which uses more 
criteria as a reference in the recommendation prediction computation process [30]. In this study, we used MCRS to generate rec-
ommendations for choosing tourist destinations using several reference criteria. The determination of these criteria is based on factors 
that influence tourists to determine tourism destination choices. These factors include personal characteristic factors: gender, age, job, 
hobby, motivation, marital status, origin, people in a group, education, dan repetition, and factor destinations attribute: attractions, 
accessibility, amenities, available packages, activities, and ancillary services [31]. 
In terms of the recommendation system for selecting tourist destinations, there is a possibility that players as tourists cannot 
provide an assessment of tourist destination items because they have never been there. This condition results in sparsity in MCRS based 
on collaborative filtering, where the system has difficulty generating recommendations because there are many empty rating refer-
ences [32]. The rating recommendation system is prone to cold start problems when no rating record is found [33]. Cold start is a 
common problem in recommendation systems where the system has difficulty providing recommendations because the user does not 
know the ratings of the item. Therefore, this study proposes a combination of two approaches used in the recommendation system: the 
known and unknown ranking approach (KUR). In the known rating approach, the system works based on the similarity of player 
ratings with rating data from previous travelers. Meanwhile, when using the unknown rating approach, the system works based on the 
similarity of player preferences with previous tourist preference data, which is processed using Artificial Neural Networks (ANN). 
Besides using more criteria, MCRS requires machine learning support to produce more accurate recommendations [22]. The 
complexity of the relationship between the parts in MCRS requires a capable data-sharing system to handle data distribution. Two 
types of data-sharing architectures commonly used in research are centralized and decentralized [34]. The centralized architecture 
emphasizes centralized network management, where communication between nodes always requires the central node’s approval. The 
weakness is that a system failure at the central node can cause data transmission failure. Meanwhile, a decentralized architecture has 
the advantage that each node can send data directly to the destination node without going through the central node approval [35]. The 
decentralized MCRS (DMCRS) increases communication effectiveness between nodes without depending on one node. 
Blockchain is one of the latest data-sharing technology developments that use a decentralized architecture [36,37]. This technology 
has the characteristics of distributed data sharing and better security, allowing data to be stored at each node securely. Currently, 
blockchain handles cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin [38], but it has also been implemented in various fields. Example transaction 
simulation on games [9], decentralized storage on an industrial network [39], medical data sharing [40], and distributed network on 
the internet of the vehicle [41]. Besides these fields, blockchain still has broad development and implementation prospects in tourism 
destinations [42]. 
In this study, we try to use blockchain technology to implement the decentralized concept in supporting the rating data sharing 
required by the recommender system. Several studies have stated that blockchain has the characteristics of being decentralized, 
distributed, immutability, increased capacity, and better data security [35]. This technology follows the characteristics of the proposed 
tourism recommender system that requires decentralized and distributed data circulation handling and support for tourist rating and 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
3
preference data security. Although not all variables from the data are classified as critical data, the secure data-sharing capabilities of 
the blockchain can undoubtedly make users feel more comfortable using their data in this proposed system. Of the various blockchain 
platforms currently developing, Ethereum is one platform that has the advantage of being easy to implement in a game-based system. 
This platform helps developers quickly implement blockchain technology into the Unity game engine [43]. In this research, blockchain 
supports data circulation and the delegation of tasks for all parts of the DMCRS on TDSG in a decentralized, distributed, and secure 
manner. Using blockchain is expected to improve the capability, data availability, and security of DMCRS. 
1.2. Motivating Example, Contribution, and organization of paper 
An essential motivation of this research is to design a recommendation system for players in choosing a suitable tourism destination 
as an ambient intelligence serious game response that is visualized with the scenarios offered. Ambient intelligence in TDSG in this 
study is designed to provide a visualization response to travel scenarios for players as tourists who have not or have come. The 
visualization of the travel scenario is selected based on the recommender system’s recommendations for the choice of tourist desti-
nations. For example, a tourist who want to travel to a destination city can play a travel scenario in a virtual environment of tourist 
destinations recommended by the system before they depart. The goal is for tourists to know the characteristics and environment of the 
selected tourist destination so that they can use it as a reference in designing a travel agenda. 
Therefore, this study introduces a recommender system based on the known and unknown rating approach. The known rating 
approach is an approach for new tourists, and an unknown rating approach is for tourists who want to return. The known rating 
approach produces recommendations based on the similarity rating calculation known to the player and calculated using the MCRS 
method. The unknown rating approach generates recommendations based on PC player data using the ANN algorithm. Furthermore, 
this study uses blockchain-based decentralized data-sharing technology to support the circulation of data between players required by 
the recommender system in TDSG. With this capability, prospective tourists who have come to a tourist destination city can get 
recommendations based on the item criteria rating of tourist destinations they know. Moreover, tourists who have never come also can 
still get recommendations based on their preference data fields. 
Furthermore, some of the main contributions of this research include the following:  
1. The multi-criteria recommender system produces recommendations for selecting tourism destinations using the KUR approach. 
This approach can generate recommendations based on two input options: tourist destination ratings or player preferences. The 
goal is to ensure the availability of recommendations for players who have or have never visited a tourist destination.  
2. This study offers several criteria for ranking tourist destinations as a reference for generating recommendations through MCRS: 
attractions, accessibility, amenities, available packages, activities, and ancillary services. In addition, we also define several player 
preferences variables as a reference in classifying the order of choice of tourism destinations.  
3. -The recommender system utilizes decentralized datasharing to support the circulation of rating and user preference data. 
Furthermore, as a form of implementing the decentralized concept in the Unity game engine, this research uses the Ethereum 
blockchain platform with all its advantages. 
We divide this paper into several sections to explain each part of the system design, test results, and analysis. After the introduction, 
the second section is the preliminaries that explain the influence criteria for choosing tourism destinations, the multi-criteria 
recommender system, and blockchain-based decentralized data sharing. The third section describes the system design and method, 
containing a decentralized multi-criteria recommender system, data sharing system, and recommendations for visualization in serious 
games. Furthermore, the fourth section is the results and discussion, which explains the results of testing and analysis of decentralized 
data sharing, MCRS using the known approach, and the unknown rating approach. Finally, we write the conclusion of this paper in the 
fifth section. 
Table 1 
Related work for recommender systems in games and other applications.  
References System/Method Object Application 
[21] Logistic regression-based system In-game item selection Online game 
[44] The intelligent exergame-based rehabilitation system Patient rehabilitation Serious games 
[45] Recurrent neural networks Game item MOBA game 
[46] Feedforward neural network Game item and product Video games 
[47] Neural network In-game item selection Video games 
[48] ELECTRE Traveler itinerary Web-based 
[49] K-means + GA Tourism destinations Mobile 
[50] Opinion-mining technology Tourism destinations Web-based 
[51] Topic modeling + emotional analysis + haversine Tesser-known tourism place Not mentioned 
[52] MCRS using a fuzzy approach Tourism service Web-based 
[53] Destinations ratings-based MCRS Halal tourism destinations Desktop game 
[54] Weighted sum model-based MCRS Tourism destinations Web-based 
[55] Decentralized collaborative filtering Movies Not mentioned 
[56] Decentralized hybrid systems Advertising Mobile 
[57] MobRec Movies, music, restaurants, etc Mobile  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
4
2. Related work 
2.1. Recommender system 
The recommendation system is an essential part of the game system, especially to provide players insight and advice about item 
selection when they play the game. Table 1 shows several studies discussing recommender systems’ use in games and other appli-
cations. One of them is the research conducted by Looi et al., in 2019. They proposed a recommender system in online games to advise 
players on selecting and purchasing the necessary items. This research with Dota 2 objects utilizes the concept of a rule-based system 
that is based on clustering for the system with logistic regression that was developed [21]. Furthermore, Gonzales et al. propose a 
recommendation system for learning about patient health rehabilitation in the serious game genre. This research, published in 2018, 
aims to produce a serious game that can motivate patient adherence while undergoing treatment. The recommendation system can 
intelligently analyze patient interactions and history and recommend appropriate training options. In addition, the proposed 
recommendation system can also provide suggestions according to the difficulty level of the game and the abilities of the players [44]. 
Several studies use different methods to support recommender systems in their game proposals. For example, in 2018, Yao et al. 
proposed an item selection recommendation system in multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA) genre games. The research using the 
King of Glory data set uses the Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs) method based on hierarchical attention. The results show that the 
proposed method has an accuracy of 2% higher than non-sequence models [45]. In addition, Simone et al. introduced a recommender 
system design for an item and product selection in a game. The authors use the concept of a recommender system based on in-game 
profiling to generate recommendations for players. They use a feedforward neural network method with a single hidden layer to 
perform the classification process based on the data-inferred profile and preferences [46]. In another study, Bertens et al. propose 
machine learning in a recommendation system in video games. The system in the game provides recommendations for selecting 
interesting items for players. Players automatically get recommendations according to their wishes or personalization while playing 
through the recommender system. The 2018 study used an ensemble-based model and a deep neural network algorithm in a game 
recommender system [47]. Several previous studies are references to support the proposed system discussed in this study, especially 
for planning the concept and implementation of a serious game’s tourism destination recommender system. 
On the other hand, several studies have specifically proposed various methods for selecting tourist destinations to build a 
recommendation system. In his paper, Kzaz describes an approach to supporting the tourism recommender system divided into the 
classical and non-classical approaches. Some of the methods included in the classical approach are Collaborative Filtering and Content- 
Based Filtering. In contrast, Personalized Approaches, Context-aware, and Ontology-Based Approaches are included in the non- 
classical approach [58]. Moussa et al. in a study, discuss a personal-based system to provide travel plan selection knowledge to 
tourists. They use the ELECTRE method in developing web-based applications [48]. Furthermore, Tenemaza et al. publish a paper that 
discusses a mobile application-based tourism destination recommendation system. The system is built based on the design of tourist 
trips to produce recommendations according to environmental changes and tourist interests [49]. 
Furthermore, Zheng et al. propose a recommender system for tourism destinations based on user sentiment, user preferences, and 
destination popularity. The results show that the proposed system can improve the quality and accuracy of recommendations [50]. 
While in another study, Buranasing et al. propose a recommender system to provide knowledge about lesser-known places for potential 
tourists. They used topic modeling concepts to find related subjects, dynamic analysis to measure visitor attitudes, and haversine 
techniques to find lesser-known sites. In the implementation phase, they use web technology and social media to get data reviews, 
locations, and ratings [51]. The concept of single criteria from several previous studies needs to be increased to multi-criteria because 
many factors influence the context of selecting tourism destinations. In addition, in developing a tourism recommendation system 
based on a rating assessment, it is necessary to consider the possibility that users who have never been to a tourist destination cannot 
provide an assessment rating of at least one of the items offered. Therefore, in this study, we propose the concept of a KUR-based MCRS. 
When the rating is not known, the system can still generate recommendations based on the preferences of users who are game players. 
In one study, Colale et al. introduced a context-aware-based recommendation system for promoting tourism events. They designed 
the system to provide dynamic support to tourists by developing a mobile-based system. The results of their research show that the 
system can generate recommendations for finding cities and events based on the position and global profile of tourists [59]. 
Furthermore, research on recommender systems with a context-aware approach was also carried out by Casillo et al., in 2021. The 
authors discuss the prospects for developing the recommendation system to be implemented in the Cultural Heritage field. A 
recommendation system that can provide recommendations for exemplary service to tourists based on their current situation is an 
exciting research challenge, and context awareness plays an essential role in it [60]. Research on a context-aware recommendation 
system is exciting. It has challenges, but in this study, we focus more on rating item destinations and tourist preferences as a reference 
for generating recommendations. 
In 2016 Farokhi et al. introduced the MCRS implementation in the tourism sector. The authors used a dataset from TripAdvisor in 
the experiment and supported it with a fuzzy C-means algorithm [52]. Arif et al. in a study, also proposed destinations ratings-based 
MCRS as a method for providing recommendations for choosing halal tourism based on desktop games [53]. On the other hand, 
Santosa et al. also proposed using MCRS in the tourism destinations recommender system based on the weighted sum model (WSM), 
one of the multi-criteria decision-making techniques (MCDM). They use a web browser-based user interface and a centralized 
data-sharing architecture where every data is stored on a database server [54]. The centralized architecture in several previous studies 
raises the challenge of limited system capabilities that depend on the server. So it is necessary to increase the ability of data sharing that 
does not depend on one node to get support for the circulation of new reference data that is not easy and safe. Therefore, this study 
proposes using a recommender system with decentralized data sharing to guarantee data existence because it is stored in every node 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
5
connected to the network. 
Along with developing data-sharing communication technology, several studies have discussed decentralized architecture concepts 
to support performance between sections in the recommender system. In 2020, Ai et al. proposed a decentralized concept for a 
recommender system based on a collaborative filtering approach. The system’s accuracy is also affected by differences in the popu-
larity of items shown through the centrality model in the network [55]. Furthermore, a study discusses the concept of a decentralized 
recommender system to overcome privacy problems in collecting user preferences centrally. The decentralized concept is implemented 
in a mobile-based recommendation system to display advertisements that match the interests and preferences of users online [56]. In 
another study, Beierle and Egger discussed the decentralized mobile recommender system. They introduced a mobile-based platform in 
a decentralized concept for the recommendation system computing process and data collection and storage called MobRec. The 
MobRec architecture consists of data collection through a data-sharing system between devices and a recommender system that works 
locally on each device, where recommendations are generated based on user interests and preferences. [57]. Several previous studies 
have succeeded in developing the decentralized concept in a recommender system, but a secure data-sharing system should certainly 
support the concept. In the context of the tourism destinations recommender system, we propose the concept that requires the dis-
tribution of user preference data to be secured. Therefore, this study chose a blockchain because it has advantages in securing data 
through hashing techniques, proof of work, and smart contracts. 
2.2. Influence criteria for choosing tourism destinations 
Tour trips are divided into three main phases: before, during, and after the trip [61]. Before the trip is the phase where tourists start 
looking for information and planning their trip. In this initial phase, tourists start planning a trip by determining which tourism 
destinations they want to visit according to their characteristics, goals, and expectations [17]. The study explains two main factors that 
influence tourists in determining their choice of tourism destinations. The first is tourists’ characteristics (PC), including gender, age, 
job, hobby, motivations, marital status, origin, people in a group, education, and dan repetition. The second factor is the destinations 
attribute (DA) which represents the preference for tourism destinations. The DA factor consists of several criteria, including the 
number of attractions, ticket prices, surface area, attributes of nature, facility, infrastructure, access, and distance to the destinations 
[31]. 
In another study, the rating of DA (RDA) was carried out using the 6As Tourism Destinations (6AsTD) framework [62]. The 
framework assessment is divided into six criteria: attractions, accessibility, amenities, available packages, activities, and ancillary 
services [63,64]. Attractions are interesting spots or rides in a tourist destination that can stimulate the desire of tourists to visit. The 
attractions criteria include natural landscapes, artificial tourism, cultural tourism, and special events. While accessibility is a criterion 
that represents transportation facilities and access to and from tourism destinations. The criteria include transportation routes, ter-
minals, and public transportation. Furthermore, amenities are criteria from the 6AsTD framework representing the supporting fa-
cilities available in tourism destinations. Some of the facilities included in the amenities criteria include lodging and hotels, 
restaurants, public facilities, and shopping centers. 
Available packages are assessment criteria for tour packages offered to tourists at a tourism destination. The following criteria are 
activities, namely the criteria used to assess all activities in tourist destinations. Every enjoyable activity tourist can do in tourist 
destinations can trigger them to come and visit [65]. The sixth criterion, namely ancillary service, represents assessing the supporting 
facilities inside and outside the tourist destination required by tourists. These facilities may not directly support tourist activities, but 
actually, they need them. Some assessment components in this criterion include communication channels, internet services, ATMs or 
banks, postal services, and medical services. 
We utilize the combination of RDA and PC in the MCRS proposal to provide recommendations for choosing suitable tourist des-
tinations for tourists. The system uses DA based on the 6AsTD framework as the rating criteria for tourists’ assessment of tourism 
destinations. In contrast, the PC is a reference criterion in the training data for the classification process of the similarity of tourist 
preferences to the choice of tourist destinations. 
2.3. Blockchain-based decentralized data sharing 
The data-sharing rating section is one of the essential factors supporting data availability in this proposed system. This section is 
responsible for circulating data between sections on the recommender system. Therefore, the system requires a data-sharing network 
architecture to ensure ease of communication, data availability, and data security. Two commonly used data-sharing network ar-
chitecture concepts are centralized and decentralized [34]. Between the two architectures, decentralized has more capabilities to 
overcome the limitations of centralized capabilities, namely dependence on the central node. In a decentralized network, each node 
can communicate directly without getting approval from any of the nodes. This concept makes data circulation between nodes easier 
and more distributed [66]. 
Ethereum is a blockchain platform with smart contract-based data-sharing technology. In its implementation, a smart contract is a 
collection of program code containing functions and statuses deployed in the blockchain network. All nodes executing a smart contract 
must get the same result stored on the blockchain. Smart contracts execute methods according to the data provided by the user to 
perform services in the network. The blockchain platform can calculate, store information, and expose properties as a mirror of an open 
public state using smart contract [34]. In this study, smart contracts are essential in ensuring the automatic agreement function of user 
rating and preference data transactions between nodes in the blockchain network. 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
6
3. System design and methods 
One of the objectives of this research is to build a recommender system that can produce recommendations for selecting tourist 
destinations as a response from the ambient intelligence system to players according to their preferences. We divide TDSG into three 
main parts to achieve this goal: tourism destination recommender system (TDRS), data sharing system, and game visualization. The 
TDRS section and the data-sharing system are essential in generating recommendations based on the preference data and other user 
ratings obtained through blockchain-based decentralized data sharing. At the same time, the game visualization section is in charge of 
visualizing the results of the recommended tourism destinations into a game scenario for players. 
In TDSG, every player can run the game and get recommendations based on preference and rating data from other players. 
Therefore, every player running a device with TDSG must connect with other devices via the Ethereum blockchain network. Fig. 1 
shows the relationship between devices in the TDSG framework with its three main parts. Every player connected to the network must 
have a device with the TDSG system installed. At the same time, the server in this study is a backup of data preferences and ratings from 
players. 
Referring to the three main sections of TDSG, we explain them in detail in several sections with their respective workflows in Fig. 2. 
In the TDRS section, we use the MCRS method to provide recommendations for players regarding the selection of tourist destinations 
that they play through game scenarios. The recommendation generator section produces a Top-N recommendation, a recommendation 
ranking of tourism destinations. MCRS generates recommendations based on computing preference and player rating data compared to 
other player preference and rating data stored in the database. The data is from other players obtained through the Ethereum platform 
in the blockchain network. Each player can submit their preference and rating data for tourism destinations through the game menu, 
also available in the game visualization section. This activity is one of the essential jobs for players because the system has the task of 
distributing every data from them to every player node and server in the blockchain network to add variations to the database for other 
nodes. Furthermore, in in-game visualization, a section of tourism destinations scenario selection selects game scenarios for players 
based on the Top-N recommendation rating from MCRS. The selected scenario is one from the Tourism Destinations Scenario 
Collection designed using the Finite State Machine. 
Fig. 1. TDSG in the ethereum blockchain network.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
7
3.1. Blockchain-based Player’s preference and rating data sharing 
This study offers a TDRS for supporting ambient intelligence TDSG, which can generate recommendations based on rating criteria 
data for tourism destinations and player preference data. In other words, each TDRS can generate recommendations in two ways. The 
first, recommendations are generated based on the similarity of player ratings to other player ranking data sets, and the second is based 
on the suitability of a player’s preference against the classification results of another player’s preference data set. Table 2 shows the 
notation of each rating and player preferences used in TDRS. 
Every data in the rating and preference database is from previous players and can continue to grow with the assessment response 
from players who have used TDSG. Therefore, the system should ensure that players’ rating and preference data exchange goes well 
and safely. Furthermore, we offer a data sharing system that uses blockchain technology to support data exchange activities between 
TDSG players. In this study, we try to take advantage of the advantages of the Ethereum platform to handle data transmission 
transactions to every node in the blockchain network. 
The step of data transactions in the Ethereum blockchain network begins with an agreement between all nodes connected in the 
network. What is meant by agreement is the program code containing the algorithm in the data transaction agreement, which is a 
smart contract. When the player finishes filling in the preference and rating data, the conditions that are prerequisites in the smart 
contract are met, triggering a data transaction. After the smart contract runs, the system forms a block consisting of several parts: 
index, hash, previous hash, transaction root hash, receipt root hash, timestamp, difficulty level, nonce, gas limit, and the gas used. Each 
Fig. 2. Proposed Ambient Intelligence TDSG system.  
Table 2 
Tourism destination rating and player preference data.  
RDA PC 
Symbol Criteria Value Symbol Criteria Value 
R0 Overall rating 1–10 P1 Motivations 1–4 
R1 Attractions 1–10 P2 Age 1–4 
R2 Accessibility 1–10 P3 Employment 1–4 
R3 Amenities 1–10 P4 Marital status 1–2 
R4 Available packages 1–10 P5 Hobby 1–5 
R5 Activities 1–10 P6 Gender 1–2 
R6 Ancillary services 1–10 P7 Hometown 1–2    
P8 Group 1–5  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
8
block in the blockchain network is interconnected based on the similarity of the previous block hash in the current block with the block 
hash in the previous block [43]. 
This research utilizes Photon 2 as a network provider platform. This platform has many product lines that can be used on various 
devices. One of the popular Photon products is PUN (Photon Unity Networking) which uses a central Photon network server to manage 
data flows. We use PUN in the data-sharing experiment in this study. Furthermore, we also use a blockchain network based on the 
Ethereum platform. The advantage of the Ethereum network is that it is public and peer-to-peer so that all connected nodes in the 
network can have the right to access data shared by other nodes. The function of PUN and the Ethereum blockchain in this study is to 
handle PC and RDA data-sharing systems between nodes in the network. 
The Ethereum blockchain platform does its job by storing and processing every PC and RDA data. The platform is also transparent 
and can serve as a long-term data storage medium on the network. This capability makes each shared data accessible to every node 
connected to the network. Another advantage of this platform is its better data security with encryption. Furthermore, the steps for 
applying blockchain technology in handling data sharing in this study are as follows.  
• The first step is the block-chaining process. This process occurs after all connected nodes in the network have made a transaction 
agreement. The agreement is in a smart contract with program code representing the terms of the transaction agreement between 
nodes. When these conditions are met, then the first transaction occurs.  
• The conditions referred to are fulfilled when the game player has finished inputting data, so data-sharing transactions are 
processed.  
• After the transaction runs, the following process is making the next block.  
• The first task of the blockchain system when data transactions occur is securing data using a hashing algorithm called SHA-256. The 
algorithm processes input data into 256-bit messages [9,67].  
• When data transactions occur in a blockchain network, the initial block is a repository for when no new transactions are made. 
However, if a new transaction exists, the system will repeat the hashing process to form a new block.  
• The data transacted to the blockchain network in this study is PC and RDA data.  
• When the data transaction has been verified, the transaction has been successfully executed on the blockchain network. 
In this decentralized recommender system study for a tourism serious game, the system automatically shares data through the 
blockchain network when a serious game node receives new data. Furthermore, to verify the transaction terms, the system utilizes the 
smart contract function. However, the system sends an error message if the verification fails. Conversely, when verifying that the 
conditions in the smart contract are fulfilled, the system shares data with the Ethereum network. The following process forms the data 
block structure, followed by the hashing process to generate new transactions. The process is continued by being validated using Proof 
of Work (PoW), and when the validation is successful, the data is broadcast on the Ethereum network. Every player node connected to 
the network gets PC and RDA data through the blockchain. 
Fig. 3. Generate Top-N recommendations using the KUR approach.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
9
3.2. Known and unknown rating-based recommender system 
This study proposes a concept of a multi-criteria-based recommendation system to generate recommendations through two ap-
proaches, namely the known and unknown rating (KUR) approach. We describe known rating as an approach carried out when the 
player already has an assessment of all criteria, at least in two of the tourism destinations. In the known rating approach, the system 
generates recommendations through the calculation step of the MCRS method based on the similarity of player ratings with other 
player reference data stored in the database. In the unknown ranking approach, the system uses the similarity preference classification 
between players and other travel reference data sets to derive recommendations for selecting tourist destinations. The classification 
method used in the unknown rating approach is an Artificial Neural Network. Fig. 3 shows the relationship between known and 
unknown rating approaches in the form of a block diagram. 
Equation (1) is the basic formula of MCRS, that the R function is the result of the User′ s rating on all Items criteria. In the multi- 
criteria concept, recommenders generate recommendations based on more than one rating criteria Items R0,R1,…,Rn. In this study, 
R0 is the user’s overall rating for an item tourism destination. While R1,…,Rn is the rating of each tourism destination C criteria C (C =
1, …, n). 
R : Users× Items → R0 ×R1 ×… × Rn (1) 
According to Gediminas Adomavicius and Young Ok Kwon, the recommender system works through two main stages: prediction 
ratings and item recommendation. The system calculates the R function for the Users × Items area at the prediction rating stage based 
on the known item rating ratings. At this stage, the recommender system predicts the rating of the unknown item based on its similarity 
to the previous user rating data. Two approaches that can be used to generate rating predictions are Heuristic-based approaches and 
Model-based approaches [68]. In this MCRS system, we use heuristic-based approaches to generate the rating predictions. This 
approach can produce accurate, efficient recommendations and a faster calculation process [69]. By utilizing the capabilities of the 
heuristic approach, it is hoped that it can improve the suitability of the recommendations produced and support the game to make it 
more real-time. 
The first step in implementing heuristic-based approaches in the MCRS system is calculating user similarity. Eqs. (2) and (3) show 
the similarity calculation formula to get the value of sim(u, u′
) using the cosine-based similarity technique and Pearson correlation. 
Cosine-based similarity uses a more detailed calculation pattern based on the similarity of every two samples. In comparison, the 
Pearson correlation produces a similarity value based on the calculation of the correlation between two random variables [28]. These 
two formulas are used to compare new user data with each data from the data set in more detail, to obtain a similarity value. 
Furthermore, we also compared the two formulas to see which technique is more accurate to apply in this study. The formula is used to 
calculate the similarity of rating on each criterion of user u and user u′ as a game player. Meanwhile, R(u, i) is the user’s rating as player 
u on the item tourism destinations u. On the other hand, I(u, u′
) represents the common items that have been averaged by user u and 
user u′ . 
sim(u, u′
) =
∑
iεI(u,u′ )R(u, i)R(u
′
, i)
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅∑
iεI(u,u′ )R(u, i)
2
√ ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅∑
iεI(u,u′ )R(u
′
, i)2
√ (2)  
sim(u, u′
) =
∑
iεI(u,u′ )
(
R(u, i) − R(u))
(
R(u′
, i) − R(u′
)
̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
∑
iεI(u,u′ )R(u, i) − R(u))
2
√ ̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
∑
iεI(u,u′ )R(u
′
, i) − R(u′
)
2
√ (3) 
The second step is finding a similarity ranking. Several methods that can be used to find similarity rankings include average 
similarity simavg(u,u
′
), worst-case (smallest) similarity simmin(u, u
′
) and aggregate similarity simagregate(u, u
′
) [70]. Where simc(u, u
′
) is the 
similarity criteria between user u and user u′ and c is the criteria for item tourism destination. In the calculation of the average 
similarity shown in equation (4), the number of criteria that have a rating value from the user is represented by k. Furthermore, 
equation (5) shows the calculation of worst-case (smallest) similarity. While equation (6) shows the calculation of aggregate similarity 
where wc is the weight of the criteria c owned by each tourism destination item. In this study, we tried to analyze the three similar 
formulas to find the one that has the highest level of accuracy for the problem of recommending tourism destinations. 
simavg(u, u
′
) =
1
k + 1
∑k
c=0
simc(u, u
′
) (4)  
simmin(u, u
′
) =
min
c = 0,…, n simc(u, u
′
) (5)  
simagregate(u, u
′
) =
∑n
c=0
wcsimc(u, u
′
) (6) 
The third step is to predict the rating of each unknown user criterion u based on user rating criteria with the highest similarity 
average. After getting all the rating criteria values for all tourist destination items, the following system ranks tourism destination items 
based on the overall rating value of R0. This step is the last in implementing the known rating approach to get a Top-N tourism 
destination ranking. 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
10
Unknown rating is an approach in our proposed system that uses machine learning support to generate recommended ranking 
predictions for users. The system uses one of the methods in machine learning, namely Artificial Neural Network (ANN), to classify the 
recommended choices of previous user data sets according to their PC data. ANN is a classification method that can overcome cold-start 
problems in the recommendation system [71]. In this study, ANN performs the classification process offline to get the weight value of 
each preference for each ranking of TOP-N tourism destinations. With the recommendation system using tourist PC data, it is hoped 
that it can produce recommendation predictions in the early stages of using the system before the user assessment data is known 
against the DA criteria. The ten PC criteria used as initial data in this study were gender (X1), age (X2), job (X3), hobby (X4), mo-
tivations (X5), marital status (X6), origin (X7), people in a group (X8), educations (X9), and repetition (X10). The data set for each 
criterion is training data obtained from previous tourists. After training and obtaining a classification model of tourist destination 
choice (DW) based on X1 to X10 as PC1 to PC10 data, the PC User data input is matched with the classification results to get an estimate 
of DW choice recommendations according to the User PC. The design of an ANN-based recommendation system using PC data is shown 
in Fig. 4. 
3.3. Recommendations visualization in serious game 
The previous section explained that the DMCRS only limited the five highest-ranking recommendations for tourism destinations for 
players. However, the serious game in this study still had to provide all travel scenarios for each destination that became TDSG content. 
When the game system displays scenarios based on the results of the DMCRS recommendations, players can choose one for them to 
play. Fig. 5 shows the sequence of player activities in playing TDSG. Starting from entering a rating or preference, choosing one of the 
five recommended travel scenarios, running the selected game scenario, searching for each icon in the selected tourist destination, and 
getting score information from the icon search results before the game is over. 
Fig. 6 is a travel scenario design described using a finite state machine. The initial part of the TDSG scenario design is the Display 
the Ever Came form. The system provides a choice of approaches for players to obtain recommendations, namely through known 
rating = yes or known rating = no. Furthermore, the system runs the state MCRS calculation when the player enters the rating data 
value. Meanwhile, when the player enters the preferences data, the system runs the Player weight calculation state. The game system 
provides five scenario options based on the highest recommendations generated from the two states’ results. Next, the system runs one 
of the scenarios chosen by the player. The story idea of each scenario in TDSG describes the tourists’ journey through each attraction in 
the tourist destination. Each tourist destination has a different virtual environment visualization in the game, including icons and 
supporting objects. Players must find and get icons in each featured attraction to increase the score acquisition as a challenge in playing 
the game. 
4. Result and discussion 
4.1. Collection and preparation of data 
This section describes the results of experiments and testing of several system parts, including blockchain-based data sharing, KUR- 
based recommendation systems, and in-game systems. implementation. This subsection discusses the collection and preparation of 
datasets before they are used as a reference in generating recommendations. This study uses tourist destinations around Batu City, East 
Java, Indonesia. This city is one of the tourist development areas with various exciting tourist destinations. Table 3 shows 14 popular 
tourist destinations of various types in the Batu City area and its surroundings as objects in this study. This study uses rating and 
preference data from 227 respondents as a dataset for calculating recommendations to support system development and testing. We 
distributed questionnaires to each respondent, who were tourists who had visited each tourist destination in Batu city. The dataset 
includes a collection of tourists’ RDA and PC data, complete with their choice of tourist destinations. Table 4 shows the demographics 
Fig. 4. An ANN-based recommender system using PC data.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
11
of the respondents that support data collection in this study. 
We perform a feature selection process of the ten proposed PC criteria to determine the most influential criteria among all existing 
PC criteria. In this study, to perform feature selection with chi-square, the results are shown in Fig. 7. The results of the chi-square 
calculation on all of the respondent data taken in the Batu City tourist area show that the five highest criteria that affect the selec-
tion of tourist destination items are X3, X4, X7, X8, X10 are the criteria for job, hobby, origin, people in a group and repetition. These 
five criteria are then used in the learning and running process to produce recommendations based on the ANN classification. 
4.2. Blockchain-based data sharing for TDSG 
This research uses the Ethereum blockchain as a platform to implement decentralized data sharing in developing TDSG through the 
Unity game engine. The first process in the Ethereum blockchain setup is to create a wallet to accommodate the smart contract tokens 
needed to process data transactions on this TDSG. Smart contracts are one of the excellent features of the Ethereum framework, 
through which developers can program transaction rules for sharing ratings and player preferences. In this research, we program the 
Smart Contract algorithm in Solidity language, compiled at www.remix.org. Meanwhile, to manage the flow of data sharing in TDSG, 
this research uses PUN which utilizes a central server of Photon Network. 
Fig. 5. Player activities in TDSG.  
Fig. 6. TDSG scenario using FSM.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
http://www.remix.org
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
12
Table 3 
Tourism destinations item for TDSG.  
Item Code Tourism Destinations Type 
i1 Jatim Park 1 Artificial 
i2 Jatim Park 2 Artificial 
i3 Jatim Park 3 Artificial 
i4 Museum Angkut Cultural Heritage 
i5 Selecta Natural Landscape 
i6 Batu Night Spectacular (BNS) Artificial 
i7 Eco Green Park Artificial 
i8 Alun-Alun Batu Artificial 
i9 Kusuma Agro Natural Landscape 
i10 Cangar Natural Landscape 
i11 Coban Talun Natural Landscape 
i12 Songgoriti Natural Landscape 
i13 Coban Rais Natural Landscape 
i14 Predator Fun Park Artificial  
Table 4 
The demographic of potential tourists as game players.  
Variable Category Frequency Percentage (%) 
Gender Male 
Female 
81 
146 
35.7 
64.3 
Age <11 
12–25 
26–45 
>45 
1 
140 
66 
20 
0.6 
61.6 
29 
8.8 
Employment Entrepreneur 
PNS/TNI/POLRI 
Student 
Other 
78 
9 
91 
49 
34.3 
3.9 
40 
21.8 
Origin In the city 
Out of town 
115 
112 
50.6 
49.4 
Travel Motivation Recreation/Holiday 
Educational Research 
Business 
Other 
215 
4 
5 
3 
94.7 
1.7 
2.2 
1.4 
Marital status Marry 
Not married yet 
85 
142 
37.4 
62.6 
Hobby Swim 
Travel 
Climb 
Sport 
Photography 
32 
113 
10 
57 
15 
14 
49.7 
4.4 
25.1 
6.8  
Fig. 7. Feature selection results using chi-square.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
13
In this research, we use www.metamask.io as a wallet account provider to store the fees required for each data transaction. While in 
the experimental stage, we are utilizing Rinkeby Test Network as a blockchain network provider and erc20 as a dummy token provider. 
The first test is about the average time required to process data transactions. The test is carried out by carrying out the process of 
sending RDA data 25 times consisting of the names of tourist destinations, R1, R2, R3, R4, R5, R6, R0, and PC data consisting of P1, P2, 
P3, P4, P5, P6, P7, P8 and five choices of tourist destinations. Data transmission is done by configuring the int index, int address, string 
name, string RDA, and string PC. Fig. 8 shows the time it takes to process a transaction for 25 times of testing data transmission. Where 
the average transaction time required is 20.44 ms. 
Furthermore, the second test is carried out to obtain a shorter average transaction processing time by setting the value for the gas 
price variable. Fig. 9 shows the time required for RDA and PC data transactions to the gas price value. The average transaction time for 
gas price = 10 gwei is 27 ms, gas price = 20 gwei is 20 ms, gas price = 30 gwei is 20 ms, gas price = 40 gwei is 17 ms, and gas price is =
50 gwei is 14 ms. So, it can be concluded that the greater the value of the gas price, the potential to shorten the processing time of data 
transactions on the Ethereum blockchain network. 
4.3. Recommendation result in TDSG based on KUR 
The primary purpose of developing KUR-based MCRS in this study is to recommend tourist destinations for players in conditions of 
known and unknown ratings as a response to ambient intelligence TDSG. There are two stages of testing the recommendation system in 
TDSG. The first is testing recommendations based on the known rating approach using RDA data, and the second is the unknown rating 
approach using PC data. In the MCRS test based on known ratings, we tested the results of the recommendations to 10 players as 
potential tourists. Then we compare the ranking of recommendations generated by the system with the choice of tourist destinations by 
tourists 
We analyzed the experimental results using reference values for accuracy (ac), precision (pr), recall (re), and F1 score (F1). This 
study uses a confusion matrix approach by first defining TP, FP, TN, and FN values to produce these values. The TP variable is a 
representation of the number of recommendations produced by the system following the user’s original recommendation data, while 
FP is the number of system recommendation results outside the TOP N user recommendations. On the other hand, FN is the number of 
user recommendations not recommended by the system. At the same time, TN is the number of samples that are not recommended by 
users and are not recommended by the system. Equations (7)–(10) are the formula for calculating ac, pr, re, and F1. 
ac=
TP+ TN
TP+ TN + FP+ FN
(7)  
pr=
TP
TP+ FP
(8)  
re=
TP
TP+ FN
(9)  
F1= 2 ×
pr × re
pr + re
(10) 
In the known rating approach testing stage, we compare several possible rating items for tourism destinations known to players 
from 2, 3, 4, to 5. Table 5 shows the value of the test results for the variables accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 scores based on 
aggregate, average and worst-case similarity for the Cosine-based Similarity and Pearson correlation-based Similarity methods. Tests 
were conducted on ten users, Un1 to Un10, based on all reference rating data from previous tourist respondents. The test results show 
that using the cosine-based similarity method with the worst-case ranking calculation produces the highest value of accuracy, pre-
cision, recall, and F1 score, especially for 2 and 4 input items. For the two input items, the accuracy value is 0.657, precision is 0.520, 
recall is 0.520, and F1 score is 0.520. As for the four input items, the accuracy value is 0.729, precision is 0.620, recall is 0.620, and F1 
score is 0.620. Next, the Pearson correlation-based similarity method with the worst-case ranking calculation produces the highest 
accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 scores, especially for 3 and 5 input items. For the three input items, the accuracy value is 0.671, 
precision is 0.540, recall is 0.540, and F1 score is 0.540. 
Fig. 8. Average time required for data transactions.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
http://www.metamask.io
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
14
Fig. 9. Influence of gas price on transaction time.  
Table 5 
Comparison value of accuracy, precision, recall dan F1 score for Cosine-based Similarity and Pearson correlation-based Similarity method.  
Number of Player Rating Items Input Compared 
Variables 
Cosine-based Similarity Pearson correlation-based Similarity 
Worst 
Case 
Average Aggregate Worst 
Case 
Average Aggregate 
2 (Jatim Park 1, Jatim Park 3) ac 0,657 0,643 0,643 0,629 0,686 0,686 
pr 0,520 0,500 0,500 0,480 0,560 0,560 
re 0,520 0,500 0,500 0,480 0,560 0,560 
F1 0,520 0,500 0,500 0,480 0,560 0,560 
3 (Jatim Park 1, Jatim Park 2, Jatim Park 3) ac 0,643 0,657 0,657 0,671 0,586 0,586 
pr 0,500 0,520 0,520 0,540 0,420 0,420 
re 0,500 0,520 0,520 0,540 0,420 0,420 
F1 0,500 0,520 0,520 0,540 0,420 0,420 
4 (Jatim Park 1, Jatim Park 2, Jatim Park 3, BNS) ac 0,729 0,700 0,700 0,686 0,586 0,586 
pr 0,620 0,580 0,580 0,560 0,420 0,420 
re 0,620 0,580 0,580 0,560 0,420 0,420 
F1 0,620 0,580 0,580 0,560 0,420 0,420 
5(Jatim Park 1, Jatim Park 2, Jatim Park 3, BNS, 
Selecta) 
ac 0,714 0,729 0,729 0,743 0,743 0,743 
pr 0,600 0,620 0,620 0,640 0,640 0,640 
re 0,600 0,620 0,620 0,640 0,640 0,640 
F1 0,600 0,620 0,620 0,640 0,640 0,640 
Obtained through a questionnaire. 
Fig. 10. Average accuracy comparison of the recommendations.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
15
Meanwhile, for five items, the input value is accuracy is 0.743, precision is 0.640, recall is 0.640, and F1 score is 0.640. From the 
test results, it can be concluded that the more ratings the user knows, the higher the accuracy value generated by the system. The 
comparison of the accuracy values for each calculation of the similarity method can also be seen in Fig. 10, where the cosine-based 
similarity method with the worst-case ranking calculation produces the highest average accuracy value of 0.686. In addition, when 
compared to the single rating recommender system method, MCRS generally has a higher level of accuracy. 
Furthermore, implementing the unknown rating approach into the game system, we tried several MLP ANN architectures to get the 
best architecture. Table 6 shows the results of a comparison of tests on several MLP architectures based on data from 5 input criteria: 
job, hobby, origin, people in a group, and repetition. Based on the table, the highest accuracy value of 0.660 is found in the MLP 
architecture 5-7-5-3-14, as shown in Fig. 11, where each hidden layer has a ReLU activation function, and the output layer uses a 
sigmoid activation function. In the data training process, the optimizer used is Stochastic Gradient Descent, with a learning rate of 0.1. 
The following is an equation for calculating the feedforward output carried out in the data testing process as an implementation in 
the game using the weights, biases, and activation functions of the 5-7-5-3-14 MLP architecture. The feedforward calculation produces 
14 prediction outputs, where if each of these outputs has a value of Yp ≥ 0,5, then it is equal to 1, whereas if Yp < 0,5, then the output is 
equal to 0. Eq. (11) is the formula for calculating the output on hidden layer 1 Zinj while equation (12) is the calculation after applying 
the ReLU activation function on hidden layer 1 Zj. Where xi represents the input data in the input layer, wij represents the weight value 
from input layer (i) to hidden layer 1 (j), while woj represents the bias value in hidden layer 1 (j). 
Zinj =
∑5
i=1
xiwij + woj (11)  
Zj = f
(
Zinj
)
= f
(
0, Zinj
)
(12) 
Furthermore, equation (13) shows the output calculation on hidden layer 2 Tink , and equation (14) is the formula after the ReLU Tk. 
Where vjk is the weight value from hidden layer 1 (j) to hidden layer 2 (k), while vok is the bias value in the hidden layer (k). 
Tink =
∑7
j=1
zjvjk + vok (13)  
Tk = f
(
tink
)
= f
(
0, tink
)
(14)  
Next, equation (15) is the formula for calculating the output on hidden layer 3 Sinm while equation (16) is the output calculation after 
applying the ReLU Sm activation function. Where ckm is the weight value from hidden layer 2 (k) to hidden layer 3 (m) and com rep-
resents the bias value in hidden layer 3 (m). 
Sinm =
∑5
k=1
tkckm + com (15)  
Sm = f (sinm )= f (0, sinm ) (16) 
Eq. (17) shows the calculation on the output layer Yinp , and equation (18) is the formula after the sigmoid Yp. Where bmp shows the 
weight value from hidden layer 3 (m) to the output layer (p) and bop is the bias value at the output layer (p). 
Yinp =
∑3
m=1
smbmp + bop (17)  
Yp = f
(
yinp
)
=
1
1 + e− yinp
(18)  
4.4. Game implementation 
In this research, we build TDSG using the Unity game engine, where every sub-system development is based on that platform. In 
Fig. 12, RDA Data Input shows the in-game user interface form to get RDA data from players: attractions, accessibility, amenities, 
available packages, activities, and ancillary services. At the same time, the Known Rating Result is an example of visualizing the 
recommendations based on the known rating approach for the top 5 tourist destinations. PC Data Input shows a visualization of the 
player’s preference input form in the game, where they can enter their work preferences, hobbies, travel companions’ area of origin, 
and repetition as input for an unknown rating-based recommendation system. Unknown Rating Result shows an example of the 
recommendation of 5 tourist destinations for players. Fig. 13 shows an example of the results of the development of TDSG, which 
includes the appearance of several virtual environments for tourist destinations. 
4.5. Comparison method 
In this section, we try to compare the results of this study with the results of several similar studies. The aim is to determine several 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
16
compared studies’ characteristics, advantages, and disadvantages. Table 7 compares methods, applications, items, and values of ac, pr, 
re, and F1. Meanwhile, Fig. 14 shows the comparison of ac, pr, re, and F1 values in the graph. Based on the comparison table, each 
reference uses a different recommendation method, starting from K-means and Genetic Algorithm and several MCRS variants. Each 
research is also built in various web-based, mobile, and game applications. The items that are the object of research include general 
tourist destinations in Refs. [49,54] and halal tourism in Ref. [53]. 
As shown in Table 7 and Fig. 14, Reference [49] does not mention the ac value of the resulting recommendations, nor does 
Table 6 
MLP architecture test results.  
MLP Architecture 5-7-5-14 5-5-3-1-14 5-7-5-3-14 5-7-5-3-14 5-10-7-14 5-10-7-14 
Epoch 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000 1000 
Learning rate 0,001 0,001 0,001 0,1 0,1 0,1 
Optimizer Adam Adam SGD SGD SGD Adam 
Loss 0,538 0,541 0,703 0,551 0,541 0,506 
ac 0,431 0,556 0,625 0,660 0,529 0,451 
pr 0,604 0,592 0,349 0,590 0,585 0,643 
re 0,646 0,658 0,428 0,675 0,693 0,660 
F1 0.624 0.623 0.384 0.630 0.634 0.651  
Fig. 11. MLP architecture 5-7-5-3-14.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
17
reference [54] mention the value of ac, pr, re, and F1. Our proposed system yields a relatively higher ac accuracy rate of 0.743 for the 
known rating and 0.660 for the unknown rating approach. This value is higher than reference [53], which is stated to be 0.600. 
Meanwhile, the precision value of the pr system has not yet produced a high value, so further research is needed to improve it. This 
Fig. 12. Visualization examples of RDA and PC data input and recommendation results using known and unknown ratings.  
Fig. 13. Examples of tourism destination virtual environments in TDSG.  
Table 7 
Comparison of methods, applications, items, and values results for ac, pr, re, and F1.  
Reference Recommendation 
Method 
Application Item Result 
ac pr re F1 
[49] K-means + GA Mobile Recommender 
System 
General tourism 
destinations 
Not 
mentioned 
0.840 0.500 0.620 
[53] DR based MCRS Desktop Game Halal tourism 
destinations 
0.600 0.670 0.640 0.650 
[54] WSM based MCRS Web-based 
Recommendation 
General tourism 
destinations 
Not 
mentioned 
Not 
mentioned 
Not 
mentioned 
Not 
mentioned 
Ours DMCRS - known rating Serious Game General tourism 
destinations 
0.743 0.640 0.640 0.640 
DMCRS - unknown 
rating 
0.660 0.590 0.675 0.630  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
18
study has a precision value of 0.640, lower than reference [49,53]. However, this study has a relatively high score for the recall value of 
0.640 for the known assessment and 0.675 for the unknown assessment approach. The recall value is still higher than the research 
results from reference [49]. Furthermore, for the F1 score, this study resulted in a value of 0.640 in the known rating approach and 
0.630 in the unknown rating approach. The F1 score is still lower than the results of the reference study [53]. 
5. Conclusions 
This study discusses the Multi-Criteria Recommender System for selecting tourism destinations as a reference for providing scenario 
choices in response to the ambient intelligence of TDSG. Recommendations for players are generated through the MCRS method 
supported by the Ethereum blockchain as a platform to handle data sharing of player ratings and preferences. We designed MCRS to 
produce recommendations if players have visited or have never visited, using the known and unknown rating approach. For the known 
rating-based recommendation system, we compare several methods to measure user similarity, namely cosine-based and Pearson 
correlation-based similarity, with ranking calculations using the worst-case, average, and aggregate. Meanwhile, based on the un-
known rating approach, our recommendation system uses the ANN classification method with the MLP architecture to produce rec-
ommendations for the choice of tourist destinations. Furthermore, the system visualizes the recommendations for the choice of travel 
scenarios in the TDSG. 
The results show that the Ethereum blockchain works well in supporting decentralized data sharing, rating tourism destinations, 
and player preferences. The average processing time for one transaction is 20.6 s, and the average cost per transaction of 0.000106944. 
Furthermore, there are differences in the recommendations generated by MCRS based on the known and unknown ratings. The MCRS 
test results based on the known rating approach have the highest scores for accuracy, 0.743, precision 0.640, recall = 0.640, and F1 
score = 0.640, for the 5 rating items using the Pearson correlation-based similarity calculation. Meanwhile, the unknown rating system 
approach produces the highest value for accuracy is 0.660, precision is 0.590, recall is 0.675, and F1 score is 0.630 using the MLP 5-7- 
5-3-14 architecture. The test results show that the known rating-based recommender system has a better accuracy rate than the un-
known rating in this study. However, although the unknown rating approach has a lower accuracy level, using this approach increases 
the recommender system’s ability to overcome cold-start problems. 
This research still needs to be developed further to produce a serious game system in the field of tourism. One part that needs 
attention in further research is data sharing systems. It is necessary to use other decentralized data-sharing systems that are simpler in 
securing data but still have decentralized and distributed capabilities required by the recommender system. In addition, the recom-
mender system also needs to be developed using other methods. An example of a suggested method is based on a context-aware 
approach or another hybrid recommender system. The aim is to find the most suitable recommender system method to support 
ambient intelligence technology in tourism destinations’ serious games. 
Author contribution statement 
Yunifa Miftachul Arif: Conceived and designed the experiments; Performed the experiments; Analyzed and interpreted the data; 
Contributed reagents, materials, analysis tools or data; Wrote the paper. 
Duvan Deswantara Putra; Dyah Wardani: Performed the experiments; Analyzed and interpreted the data. 
Supeno Mardi Susiki Nugroho; Mochamad Hariadi: Conceived and designed the experiments; Analyzed and interpreted the data; 
Fig. 14. Comparison for accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score.  
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
19
Wrote the paper. 
Funding statement 
This research did not receive any specific grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors. 
Data availability statement 
Data will be made available on request. 
Declaration of interest’s statement 
The authors declare no competing interests. 
Acknowledgements 
This research is supported by all members of the tourism research group and all members of the Multimedia laboratory of the 
Universitas Islam Negeri Maulana Malik Ibrahim Malang. 
References 
[1] P.-M. Noemí, S.H. Máximo, Educational games for learning, Univ. J. Edu. Res. 2 (3) (2014) 230–238, https://doi.org/10.13189/ujer.2014.020305. 
[2] Y.M. Arif, S. Harini, S.M.S. Nugroho, M. Hariadi, An automatic scenario control in serious game to visualize tourism destinations recommendation, IEEE Access 
9 (2021) 89941–89957, https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2021.3091425. 
[3] E.M. Raybourn, A new paradigm for serious games: transmedia learning for more effective training and education, J. Comput. Sci. 5 (3) (2014) 471–481, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2013.08.005. 
[4] N.I. Mohd, K.N. Ali, A.F.A.A. Fauzi, S.S. Ebrahimi, Serious game attributes for the construction of a hazard identification framework, Int. J. Int. Mob. Techn. 12 
(7) (2018) 60–69, https://doi.org/10.3991/ijim.v12i7.9647. 
[5] Y. Wang, P. Rajan, C.S. Sankar, P.K. Raju, Let them play: the impact of mechanics and dynamics of a serious game on student perceptions of learning 
engagement, IEEE Trans. Learn. Techn. 10 (4) (2016) 514–525, https://doi.org/10.1109/tlt.2016.2639019. 
[6] A. Wilkinson, T. Tong, A. Zare, M. Kanik, M. Chignell, Monitoring health status in long term care through the use of ambient technologies and serious games, 
IEEE J. Biomed. Heal. Inf. 22 (6) (2018) 1807–1813, https://doi.org/10.1109/JBHI.2018.2864686. 
[7] T.G. Papaioannou, V. Hatzi, I. Koutsopoulos, Optimal design of serious games for consumer engagement in the smart grid, IEEE Trans. Smart Grid 9 (2) (2018) 
1241–1249, https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2016.2582298. 
[8] M. Guenaga, et al., Serious games for the development of employment oriented competences, Revista Iberoamericana de Tecnologias del Aprendizaje 8 (4) 
(2013) 176–183, https://doi.org/10.1109/RITA.2013.2285024. 
[9] Y.M. Arif, R.P. Pradana, H. Nurhayati, S.M.S. Nugroho, M. Hariadi, A blockchain-based multiplayer transaction for tourism serious game, in: International 
Conference on Computer Engineering, Network, and Intelligent Multimedia (CENIM), 2020, pp. 138–143. 
[10] A.K. Adisusilo, M. Hariadi, E.M. Yuniarno, B. Purwantana, Optimizing player engagement in an immersive serious game for soil tillage base on Pareto optimal 
strategies, Heliyon 6 (3) (2020), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03613, 1, 7. 
[11] M. Callaghan, M. Savin-Baden, N. McShane, A. Gomez Eguiluz, Mapping learning and game mechanics for serious games analysis in engineering education, IEEE 
Trans. Emerg. Top. Comp. 5 (1) (2017) 77–83, https://doi.org/10.1109/TETC.2015.2504241. 
[12] L. Chittaro, Designing serious games for safety education: ‘Learn to brace’ versus traditional pictorials for aircraft passengers, IEEE Trans. Vis. Comput. Graph. 
22 (5) (2016) 1527–1539, https://doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2015.2443787. 
[13] F. Xu, F. Tian, D. Buhalis, J. Weber, Marketing Tourism via Electronic Games: Understanding the Motivation of Tourist Players,” 2013 5th International 
Conference on Games and Virtual Worlds for Serious Applications, VS-GAMES, 2013, p. 2013, https://doi.org/10.1109/VS-GAMES.2013.6624235. 
[14] J. Swacha, R. Ittermann, Enhancing the tourist attraction visiting process with gamification: key concepts, Eng. Manag. Prod. Serv. 9 (4) (2017) 59–66, https:// 
doi.org/10.1515/emj-2017-0031. 
[15] F. Xu, D. Buhalis, J. Weber, Serious games and the gami fication of tourism, Tourism Manag. 60 (2017) 244–256, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
tourman.2016.11.020. 
[16] A. Coghlan, L. Carter, Serious games as interpretive tools in complex natural tourist attractions, J. Hospit. Tourism Manag. 42 (xxxx) (2020) 258–265, https:// 
doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2020.01.010. 
[17] L. Etaati, D. Sundaram, Adaptive tourist recommendation system : conceptual frameworks and implementations, Viet. J. Com. Sci. 2 (2) (2015) 95–107, https:// 
doi.org/10.1007/s40595-014-0034-5. 
[18] D.J. Cook, J.C. Augusto, V.R. Jakkula, Ambient intelligence: technologies, applications, and opportunities, Pervasive Mob. Comput. 5 (4) (2009) 277–298, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2009.04.001. 
[19] F. Benzi, F. Cabitza, D. Fogli, Gamification techniques for rule management in ambient intelligence, in: European Conference on Ambient Intelligence, 2015, 
pp. 353–356, https://doi.org/10.1145/2909132.2926083. 
[20] A. Nijholt, D. Reidsma, R. Poppe, Games and Entertainment in Ambient Intelligence Environments, first ed., Elsevier Inc., 2010 https://doi.org/10.1016/B978- 
0-12-374708-2.00016-4. 
[21] W. Looi, M. Dhaliwal, R. Alhajj, J. Rokne, Recommender system for items in DOTa 2, IEEE Trans. Games 11 (4) (2019) 396–404, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TG.2018.2844121. 
[22] M. Hassan, M. Hamada, Enhancing Learning Objects Recommendation Using Multi-Criteria Recommender Systems,” Proceedings of 2016 IEEE International 
Conference on Teaching, Assessment and Learning for Engineering, 2017, TALE, December, 2016, pp. 62–64, https://doi.org/10.1109/TALE.2016.7851771. 
[23] S. Malik, A. Rana, M. Bansal, A survey of recommendation systems, Inf. Resour. Manag. J. 33 (4) (2020) 53–73, https://doi.org/10.4018/IRMJ.2020100104. 
[24] J. Borràs, A. Moreno, A. Valls, Intelligent tourism recommender systems: a survey, Expert Syst. Appl. 41 (16) (2014) 7370–7389, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
eswa.2014.06.007. 
[25] M.V. Gopalachari, DBT recommender: improved trustworthiness of ratings through de-biasing tendency of users, Int. J. Intellig. Eng. Sys. 11 (2) (2018) 85–92, 
https://doi.org/10.22266/IJIES2018.0430.10. 
[26] M. Hamada, N.B. Odu, M. Hassan, A Fuzzy-Based Approach for Modelling Preferences of Users in Multi-Criteria Recommender Systems,” Proceedings - 2018 
IEEE 12th International Symposium on Embedded Multicore/Many-Core Systems-On-Chip, MCSoC 2018, 2018, pp. 87–94, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
MCSoC2018.2018.00026. 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
https://doi.org/10.13189/ujer.2014.020305
https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2021.3091425
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2013.08.005
https://doi.org/10.3991/ijim.v12i7.9647
https://doi.org/10.1109/tlt.2016.2639019
https://doi.org/10.1109/JBHI.2018.2864686
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2016.2582298
https://doi.org/10.1109/RITA.2013.2285024
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref9
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref9
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2020.e03613
https://doi.org/10.1109/TETC.2015.2504241
https://doi.org/10.1109/TVCG.2015.2443787
https://doi.org/10.1109/VS-GAMES.2013.6624235
https://doi.org/10.1515/emj-2017-0031
https://doi.org/10.1515/emj-2017-0031
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2016.11.020
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2016.11.020
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2020.01.010
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jhtm.2020.01.010
https://doi.org/10.1007/s40595-014-0034-5
https://doi.org/10.1007/s40595-014-0034-5
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2009.04.001
https://doi.org/10.1145/2909132.2926083
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-374708-2.00016-4
https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-374708-2.00016-4
https://doi.org/10.1109/TG.2018.2844121
https://doi.org/10.1109/TG.2018.2844121
https://doi.org/10.1109/TALE.2016.7851771
https://doi.org/10.4018/IRMJ.2020100104
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.06.007
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2014.06.007
https://doi.org/10.22266/IJIES2018.0430.10
https://doi.org/10.1109/MCSoC2018.2018.00026
https://doi.org/10.1109/MCSoC2018.2018.00026
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
20
[27] N. Ranjbar Kermany, S.H. Alizadeh, A hybrid multi-criteria recommender system using ontology and neuro-fuzzy techniques, Electron. Commer. Res. Appl. 21 
(2017) 50–64, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2016.12.005. 
[28] G. Adomavicius, Y. Kwon, Multi-Criteria Recommender Systems, Recommende, Springer Science+Business Media, New York, 2015, https://doi.org/10.1007/978- 
1-4899-7637-6. 
[29] M. Hassan, M. Hamada, A neural networks approach for improving the accuracy of multi-criteria recommender systems, Appl. Sci. 7 (868) (2017) 1–18, https:// 
doi.org/10.3390/app7090868. 
[30] M. Hassan, Performance Analysis of Neural Networks-Based Multi-Criteria Recommender Systems,” in 2017 2nd International Conferences on Information 
Technology, Information Systems and Electrical Engineering, ICITISEE), 2017, pp. 490–494. 
[31] J.L. Nicolau, F.J. Mas, The influence of distance and prices on the choice of tourist destinations : the moderating role of motivations ′ s, Tourism Manag. 27 (5) 
(2006) 982–996, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2005.09.009. 
[32] S. Natarajan, S. Vairavasundaram, S. Natarajan, A.H. Gandomi, Resolving data sparsity and cold start problem in collaborative filtering recommender system 
using Linked Open Data, Expert Syst. Appl. 149 (2020), https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.113248. 
[33] F. Anwaar, N. Iltaf, H. Afzal, R. Nawaz, C.E. Hrs, A hybrid framework to integrate content embeddings in recommender systems for cold start items, J. Comput. 
Sci. 29 (2018) 9–18, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2018.09.008. 
[34] D. Yaga, P. Mell, N. Roby, K. Scarfone, Blockchain Technology Overview, 2018, https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8202. 
[35] H.F. Atlam, A. Alenezi, M.O. Alassafi, G.B. Wills, Blockchain with internet of things: benefits, challenges, and future directions, Int. J. Intell. Syst. Appl. 10 (6) 
(2018) 40–48, https://doi.org/10.5815/ijisa.2018.06.05. 
[36] Z. Yang, K. Yang, L. Lei, K. Zheng, V.C.M. Leung, Blockchain-based decentralized trust management in vehicular networks, IEEE Internet Things J. 6 (2) (2019) 
1495–1505, https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2018.2836144. 
[37] J. Barreiro-Gomez, H. Tembine, Blockchain token economics: a mean-field-type game perspective, IEEE Access 7 (2019) 64603–64613, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2917517. 
[38] S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin : A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System, 2008, pp. 1–9. 
[39] Y. Zhu, G. Zheng, K.K. Wong, Blockchain-empowered decentralized storage in air-to-ground industrial networks, IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 15 (6) (2019) 3593–3601, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2019.2903559. 
[40] X. Liu, Z. Wang, C. Jin, F. Li, G. Li, A blockchain-based medical data sharing and protection scheme, IEEE Access 7 (2019) 118943–118953, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/access.2019.2937685. 
[41] T. Jiang, H. Fang, H. Wang, Blockchain-based internet of vehicles: distributed network architecture and performance analysis, IEEE Internet Things J. 6 (3) 
(2019) 4640–4649, https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2018.2874398. 
[42] I. Tyan, M.I. Yagüe, A. Guevara-Plaza, Blockchain technology for smart tourism destinations, Sustainability 12 (22) (2020) 1–11, https://doi.org/10.3390/ 
su12229715. 
[43] Y.M. Arif, M.N. Firdaus, H. Nurhayati, A scoring system for multiplayer game base on blockchain technology, in: The 2021 IEEE Asia Pacific Conference on 
Wireless and Mobile, APWiMob), 2021, pp. 199–204. 
[44] C.S. González-González, P.A. Toledo-Delgado, V. Muñoz-Cruz, P.V. Torres-Carrion, Serious games for rehabilitation: gestural interaction in personalized 
gamified exercises through a recommender system, 2018, J. Biomed. Inf. 97 (2019), 103266, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2019.103266. 
[45] Q. Yao, X. Liao, H. Jin, Hierarchical attention based recurrent neural network framework for mobile MOBA Game recommender systems, in: Proceedings - 16th 
IEEE International Symposium on Parallel and Distributed Processing with Applications, 17th IEEE International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing and 
Communications, 8th IEEE International Conference on Big Data and Cloud Computing, 11t, 2019, pp. 338–345, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
BDCloud.2018.00060. 
[46] L. De Simone, D. Gadia, D. Maggiorini, L.A. Ripamonti, Design of a recommender system for video games based on in-game player profiling and activities, in: 
ACM International Conference Proceeding Series, 2021, https://doi.org/10.1145/3464385.3464742. 
[47] P. Bertens, A. Guitart, P.P. Chen, Á. Periáñez, A machine-learning item recommendation system for video games, in: IEEE Conference on Computational 
Intelligence and Games, IEEE CIG), 2018, pp. 1–4. 
[48] S. Moussa, M. Soui, M. Abed, User profile and multi-criteria decision making: personalization of traveller’s information in public transportation, in: 17th 
International Conference in Knowledge Based and Intelligent Information and Engineering Systems - KES2013, 2013, pp. 411–420. 
[49] M. Tenemaza, S. Lujan-Mora, A. De Antonio, J. Ramirez, Improving itinerary recommendations for tourists through metaheuristic algorithms: an optimization 
proposal, IEEE Access 8 (2) (2020) 79003–79023, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2990348. 
[50] X. Zheng, Y. Luo, L. Sun, J. Zhang, F. Chen, A tourism destination recommender system using users’ sentiment and temporal dynamics, J. Intell. Inf. Syst. 51 (3) 
(2018) 557–578, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10844-018-0496-5. 
[51] W. Buranasing, P. Meeklai, P. Pattarathananan, Recommendation system for lesser-known places to visit in Thailand, in: International Conference on Social and 
Economic Development, ICSED), 2021, pp. 24–28, https://doi.org/10.1145/3507473.3507477. 
[52] M. Farokhi, M. Vahid, M. Nilashi, L. Branch, A multi-criteria recommender system for tourism using fuzzy approach, J. Soft Comp. Decis. Supp. Systems 3 (4) 
(2016) 19–29. 
[53] Y.M. Arif, H. Nurhayati, S.M.S. Nugroho, M. Hariadi, Destinations ratings based multi-criteria recommender system for Indonesian halal tourism game, Int. J. 
Intellig. Eng. Sys. 15 (1) (2022) 282–294, https://doi.org/10.22266/ijies2022.0228.26. 
[54] P.I. Santosa, A. Cahyono, K. Auliasari, A Multi-Criteria Recommender System for Tourism Destination,” Proceedings - Pacific Asia Conference on Information 
Systems, 2012, PACIS, 2012. 
[55] J. Ai, Z. Su, K. Wang, C. Wu, D. Peng, Decentralized collaborative filtering algorithms based on complex network modeling and degree centrality, IEEE Access 8 
(2020) 151242–151249, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3017701. 
[56] A. Moreno, H. Castro, M. Riveill, Decentralized recommender systems for mobile advertisement, Proc. of RecSys 2011 (1) (2011) 11–14. 
[57] F. Beierle, S. Egger, MobRec — mobile platform for decentralized recommender systems, IEEE Access 8 (2020) 185311–185329, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
access.2020.3029319. 
[58] L. Kzaz, Tourism recommender systems : an overview of recommendation approaches, Int. J. Comput. Appl. 180 (20) (2018) 9–13. 
[59] F. Colace, S. Lemma, M. Lombardi, F. Pascale, A context aware approach for promoting tourism events: the case of artist’s lights in Salerno, in: ICEIS 2017 - 
Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on Enterprise Information Systems, 2017, pp. 752–759, https://doi.org/10.5220/0006370007520759. 
[60] M. Casillo, F. Colace, D. Conte, M. Lombardi, D. Santaniello, C. Valentino, Context-aware recommender systems and cultural heritage: a survey, J. Ambient 
Intell. Hum. Comput. (2021) 1–19, https://doi.org/10.1007/s12652-021-03438-9. 
[61] U. Gretzel, M. Sigala, Z. Xiang, C. Koo, Smart tourism: foundations and developments, Electron. Mark. 25 (3) (2015) 179–188, https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525- 
015-0196-8. 
[62] D. Buhalis, Marketing the competitive destination of the future, January 1999, Tourism Manag. 21 (2000) 97–116, https://doi.org/10.1016/S0261-5177(99) 
00095-3. 
[63] Y.M. Arif, S.M.S. Nugroho, M. Hariadi, Selection of tourism destinations priority using 6AsTD framework and TOPSIS, ISRITI 2019, in: 2019 2nd International 
Seminar on Research of Information Technology and Intelligent Systems, 2019, pp. 346–351, https://doi.org/10.1109/ISRITI48646.2019.9034671. 
[64] D. Buhalis, A. Amaranggana, Smart Tourism Destinations,” in Information And Communication Technologies In Tourism 2014, 2014, pp. 553–564, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.tourman.2009.01.010. 
[65] W. Put-van den Beemt, R. Smith, Smart Tourism Tools: Linking Technology to the Touristic Resources of a City, Smart tourism congress Barcelona, 2016, 
pp. 1–12. 
[66] A. Dubovitskaya, P. Novotny, Z. Xu, F. Wang, Applications of blockchain technology for data-sharing in oncology: results from a systematic literature review, 
Oncology (2020), https://doi.org/10.1159/000504325. 
[67] D. Michel, Conception of a Blockchain Client for Secure Transmission of Production Data, University of Stuttgart, 2018. 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.elerap.2016.12.005
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4899-7637-6
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4899-7637-6
https://doi.org/10.3390/app7090868
https://doi.org/10.3390/app7090868
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref30
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref30
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2005.09.009
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.eswa.2020.113248
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jocs.2018.09.008
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.IR.8202
https://doi.org/10.5815/ijisa.2018.06.05
https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2018.2836144
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2917517
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2917517
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref38
https://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2019.2903559
https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2019.2937685
https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2019.2937685
https://doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2018.2874398
https://doi.org/10.3390/su12229715
https://doi.org/10.3390/su12229715
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref43
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref43
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jbi.2019.103266
https://doi.org/10.1109/BDCloud.2018.00060
https://doi.org/10.1109/BDCloud.2018.00060
https://doi.org/10.1145/3464385.3464742
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref47
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref47
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref48
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref48
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.2990348
https://doi.org/10.1007/s10844-018-0496-5
https://doi.org/10.1145/3507473.3507477
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref52
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref52
https://doi.org/10.22266/ijies2022.0228.26
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref54
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref54
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3017701
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref56
https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.3029319
https://doi.org/10.1109/access.2020.3029319
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref58
https://doi.org/10.5220/0006370007520759
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12652-021-03438-9
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-015-0196-8
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12525-015-0196-8
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0261-5177(99)00095-3
https://doi.org/10.1016/S0261-5177(99)00095-3
https://doi.org/10.1109/ISRITI48646.2019.9034671
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2009.01.010
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.tourman.2009.01.010
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref65
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref65
https://doi.org/10.1159/000504325
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref67
Heliyon 9 (2023) e14267
21
[68] S. Yadav, Shreyam Vikesh, S. Nagpal, An improved collaborative filtering based recommender system using bat algorithm, Proc. Comput. Sci. 132 (2018) 
1795–1803, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2018.05.155. 
[69] A. Kumar, S. Kaur, A. Singh, Heuristic approach for recommending research articles using collaborative tagging, Int. J. Innov. Eng. Techn.(IJIET) 5 (2) (2015) 
97–103. 
[70] Y.M. Arif, H. Nurhayati, Learning material selection for metaverse-based mathematics pedagogy media using multi-criteria recommender system, Int. J. Intellig. 
Eng. Sys. 15 (6) (2022) 541–551, https://doi.org/10.22266/ijies2022.1231.48. 
[71] X. Zhu, J. Guo, S. Li, T. Hao, Facing cold-start: a live TV recommender system based on neural networks, IEEE Access 8 (2020) 131286–131298, https://doi.org/ 
10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3007675. 
Y.M. Arif et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                         
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2018.05.155
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref69
http://refhub.elsevier.com/S2405-8440(23)01474-3/sref69
https://doi.org/10.22266/ijies2022.1231.48
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3007675
https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2020.3007675
	Decentralized recommender system for ambient intelligence of tourism destinations serious game using known and unknown rati ...
	1 Introduction
	1.1 Background
	1.2 Motivating Example, Contribution, and organization of paper
	2 Related work
	2.1 Recommender system
	2.2 Influence criteria for choosing tourism destinations
	2.3 Blockchain-based decentralized data sharing
	3 System design and methods
	3.1 Blockchain-based Player’s preference and rating data sharing
	3.2 Known and unknown rating-based recommender system
	3.3 Recommendations visualization in serious game
	4 Result and discussion
	4.1 Collection and preparation of data
	4.2 Blockchain-based data sharing for TDSG
	4.3 Recommendation result in TDSG based on KUR
	4.4 Game implementation
	4.5 Comparison method
	5 Conclusions
	Author contribution statement
	Funding statement
	Data availability statement
	Declaration of interest’s statement
	Acknowledgements
	References