Extortion of a Staking Pool in a Proof-of-Stake Consensus Mechanism
Extortion of a Staking Pool in a Proof-of-Stake
Consensus Mechanism
Alpesh Bhudia∗, Anna Cartwright†, Edward Cartwright‡, Julio Hernandez-Castro§, Darren Hurley-Smith∗
∗ Royal Holloway, University of London, † Oxford Brookes University, ‡ De Montfort University, § University of Kent
Abstract—Cryptocurrencies to date, most notably Bitcoin, have
primarily relied on a proof-of-work system to validate and
process transactions on the blockchain. Proof-of-work systems
have, however, several limitations, such as enormous energy
demands, and so are likely to be replaced by proof-of-stake
systems. These systems use a mechanism that does not rely on
mining power but the amount of stake owned by a node, allowing
randomly selected validators to create blocks and verify blocks
created by other validators. Proof-of-stake systems naturally
result in staking pools where in a third party organisation
operates validators on behalf of investors who have staked in
the currency. Given they have oversight for a large amount of
staked currency, staking pools are a prime target for malicious
actors. In this paper we explore the economic implications of an
attack on a staking pool. We pay particular attention to how the
staking pool and clients could resolve an extortion attack by a
malicious actor who has accessed relevant signing keys.
Index Terms—game theory, blockchain, PoS, ransom attacks
I. INTRODUCTION
Cryptocurrencies have now become an accepted way for
financial investors to diversify their portfolio [28], [38]. As
demonstrated by Bitcoin (a peer-to-peer version of electronic
cash introduced in 2008) they also have the potential to
become a routine form of payment across the world [29].
In January 2021, the market capitalisation of cryptocurrencies
reached $1 trillion for the first time, while the latest valuation
has exceeded over $2 trillion [36]. There also now exist over
6000 cryptocurrencies [14]. Most cryptocurrencies rely on a
decentralised ledger known as the blockchain. This allows all
transactions across a peer-to-peer network to be secured by
cryptography [26]. For a blockchain to function effectively on
a global scale, the public ledger needs to be able to securely,
achieve common agreement on a single data value among
distributed processes or systems. This is achieved through the
implementation of a consensus algorithm which defines a set
of rules that all nodes in the network must follow to add new
blocks to the chain.
Most consensus algorithms to date, like Bitcoin, rely on
proof-of-work (PoW). In the PoW algorithm, miners (partic-
ipating nodes in the network) solve computationally rigorous
puzzles to validate and create new blocks of transactions in
the cryptocurrency’s blockchain [7]. Miners are rewarded (with
cryptocurrency) if they are the first to find a valid solution to
the puzzle. Miners compete, therefore, using physical scarce
We thank Justin Drake from the Ethereum Foundation for his support and
feedback throughout this research.
resources in the form of electricity and dedicated mining
equipment to solve puzzles and earn currency. PoW has
many undesirable consequences. For instance, it means that
mining is only profitable in countries with the lowest price
for electricity [16]. Mining is also highly inefficient in terms
of energy use and duplication of effort [37]. PoW is not,
therefore, a viable way for blockchain and cryptocurrencies
to work in the long term.
Many new and existing cryptocurrencies, such as Ethereum,
are migrating from Bitcoin’s legacy PoW system to proof-
of-stake (or a hybrid approach, such as Decred [22]) [20],
[23], [25]. In a proof-of-stake (PoS) system owners of block
creation is performed by validators who have staked currency
as collateral. In return for participating in the block creation
and validation process, validators receive crypto rewards. A
PoS system has many advantages, including reduced energy
use and the avoidance of duplication of effort. In allowing
anyone with sufficient stake to become a validator, the system
can also be more decentralised than PoW has turned out to
be.
A potential drawback of a PoS system is that it creates new
opportunities for malicious actors. While there are cases of
Bitcoin being stolen [17], PoW has proved to be relatively
secure. A PoS system is, by its very nature, more vulnerable
to attack because currency is staked as part of validation.
This inevitably results in more risk. For instance, in Ethereum
2.0, a validation key needs to be in constant use online to
perform validation activities, and theft of that key would allow
a malicious actor to force financial losses (through loss of
stake) on the validator. More generally, a malicious actor
could disrupt a validator’s actions and, thereby, disrupt the
accumulation of staker rewards. If PoS is to be the dominant
form of system, it is essential that security implications are
fully investigated.
Security in a PoS system is further complicated by the
use of staking pools. A staking pool is a third-party business
that brings together multiple stakers and performs validation
activities on their behalf [21]. This appeals to stakers because
they can earn rewards without having to act as validators.
The staking pool can profit by taking a cut of validation
rewards. It can be expected that most validation in a PoS
will be performed by staking pools. In this paper we explore
the consequences of an extortion attack on a staking pool. In
such an attack the pool could be extorted for potential loss of
stake to the pool’s clients. As we discuss, there are various
economic mechanisms the staking pool could use to resolve978-1-6654-8356-8/22/$31.00 © 2022 IEEE
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 O
m
ni
-la
ye
r I
nt
el
lig
en
t S
ys
te
m
s (
C
O
IN
S)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-8
35
6-
8/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
C
O
IN
S5
48
46
.2
02
2.
98
54
94
6
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
such an attack.
We proceed as follow: In Section 2 we provide some
background information on PoS. In Section 3 we discuss the
economic implications of an extortion attack on a staking pool.
In Section 4 we conclude.
II. BACKGROUND
The specific ways in which a malicious actor could disrupt
a staking pool will depend on the the currency and validation
mechanism. In this section we, therefore, provide a high-level
overview of how different PoS systems operate and the ways
in which they can be disrupted. We begin by clarifying that
there are two basic ways a malicious actor can disrupt a staking
pool: slashing and/or reputation loss.
Many PoS currencies, including Ethereum, impose finan-
cial penalties on validators that are deemed to have acted
against the chain [3], [5]. These penalties are designed to
deter attacks on the currency and can be severe. Slashing
is a process whereby a significant proportion of a validators
stake is ‘burned’ if the validator is deemed to have behaved
against consensus. Slashing is a mechanism to collectively
police behaviour. Crucially, however, a malicious actor that has
compromised a validator’s signing key would be in a position
to deliberately perform actions that would result in significant
slashing penalties.
As we will discuss shortly, not all PoS currencies implement
penalty or slashing strategies in their design. Exceptions
include Cardano, Algorand, and Avalance. Here a malicious
actor would not be able to directly threaten loss of stake
through validation disruption. A successful attack would still,
however, be in a position to impact the staking pool’s ability to
continue participating in the blockchain, thus reducing the flow
of rewards [1], [10], [11]. In a competitive financial market,
this would almost surely impact negatively on the reputation
of the staking pool (or indeed currency) and lead to investors
leaving. This would, in turn, impact on the profitability of the
staking pool and may force its closure.
Depending on the design of the PoS, the disruption caused
by a malicious actor could incur both slashing penalties and
reputation loss. It can also impact differently across stake-
holders. For instance, an investor in a staking pool potentially
faces loss of stake. In this case they risk losing a portion
of their investment. Less consequential, but still important
in a competitive financial marketplace, is that the flow of
rewards to the investor could be less than envisaged, or less
than alternative market opportunities. In this case the investor
risks opportunity cost losses for foregone profit. The pool
operator risks loss of reputation which will impact on their
ability to make profit from validation. In essence they risk an
undermining of their business model. As we discuss in the
economic modelling, a malicious actor may strategically gain
from differentiating between types of victims, e.g. investor
versus pool operator, to use extortion most effectively.
A. Proof-of-stake
The first cyrptocurrency to adopt the PoS mechanism was
Peercoin (PPC) created by Sunny King and Scott Nadal in
2012 [24]. Many cryptocurrencies have followed, in an attempt
to solve the problem of PoW mining’s high energy consump-
tion [4], [27]. In PoS, validators stake their coins which serves
as an economic incentive to act in the network’s best interests.
On the basis that a validator would not devalue its own assets,
stakeholders accept the responsibility to maintain the security
of the blockchain. To become a validator, the coin owner
must stake specific amounts of coins. The exact amount varies
depending on the cryptocurrency. For example, in Ethereum
2.0, a minimum of 32 ETH is required, whereas, in Algorand,
it is 1 or more ALGO coins [18].
There are several variations of PoS systems currently in
existence, a few prominent ones shown in Table I. As you can
see there are various solutions to achieve effective, resource-
efficient network governance, including: Pure PoS (PPoS),
Delegated PoS (DPoS), Hybrid Proof of Stake (HPoS), Nomi-
nated PoS (NPoS), and Liquid PoS (LPoS). PoS systems vary
on a number of dimensions. In Table I we focus on penalties
for inactivity (i.e. the validator not performing actions), slash-
ing for perceived malicious activity against the currency (e.g.
if a validator agrees with a bad block, a portion of their stake
funds is slashed), and the expected flow of financial rewards
for validation. We briefly discuss four prominent examples of
PoS.
1) Algorand: Algorand implements a unique variation of
proof of stake based on a new Byzantine Agreement protocol.
It is known to be a highly democratised form of PoS with a low
minimum staking requirement of 1 ALGO coin to participate
in and secure the network. The project was launched in 2019
with an aim to accelerate transaction speed and reduce the
time it takes to process/finalise the transactions on its network.
The system uses algorithmic randomness to select a validator
(verifier) from a set of validators who is responsible for
constructing the next block of valid transactions. The most
notable feature in Algorand is that all block rewards are
proportionally distributed to all coin owners (must hold a
minimum of 1 coin and the reward is based on the amount
staked) rather than only to the validators. The protocol lacks
the mechanism to punish dishonest validators on the network,
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES IN PROMINENT POS BLOCKCHAINS
Type Min
Stake
Slashing Penalty* Rewards†
Algorand PPoS 3 7 7 10.05%
Cardano DPoS 7 7 7 5.07%
Cosmos PoS 3 3 3 14.22%
Ethereum 2.0 HPoS 3 3 3 4.81%
Polkadot NPoS 3 3 3 14.02%
Solano DPoS 3 3 3 5.79%
Tezos LPoS 3 3 3 5.3%
* Penalty occurred for inactivity or incorrect attestations.
† An estimate staking rewards a validator could earn per year based on [34].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
i.e. slashing, which is not deemed a requirement since it is
impossible to fork the blockchain due to how the Algorand
consensus process works [13], [20].
2) Cardano: Cardano implements a delegated-proof-of-
stake (DPoS) based on Ouroboros [23], allowing ADA coin
owners who have no desire to run their own validator nodes
and participate in the network to transfer all or some of their
stake to another stake pool and be rewarded for the amount
staked [33]. The DPoS system is one of the fastest blockchain
consensus mechanisms, and it can handle a higher number
of transactions than the PoW system. In addition, the system
allows all coin holders to play a role in influencing network
decisions. Similarly to Algorand, Cardano also does not have
any mechanism to punish dishonest validators. Instead, its
security is based around an opportunity cost of losing rewards
and reputation [18].
3) Ethereum 2.0: Ethereum is slowly transitioning from
PoW to PoS consensus mechanism, improving the network’s
security and scalability. A minimum of 32 ETH per validator
is required to become a validator, a relatively large amount that
means many investors will opt to join a staking pool. As you
can see in Table I, Ethereum 2.0 uses slashing and penalties to
discourage malicious or ‘lazy’ validators. The slashing penalty
can be anything from 3% of the stake to the whole stake
depending on the extent of other recently slashed balances
[6]. A slashed validator is also forced to exit, which may take
time depending on the size of the exit queue.
4) Tezos: Tezos is a self amending blockchain with similar
features to Ethereum, such as a smart contract. It uses the
liquid proof of stake approach that allows the coin owners to
withdraw their stake from a validator (baker) at any time with
no lock-up period, unlike Ethereum. In addition, the delegated
funds never leave the owner’s wallet but rather delegate their
rights to a validator to participate in the blockchain on their
behalf and collect rewards [8].
B. Slashing and Penalties
In PoS consensus algorithms [Table I], penalties and slash-
ing for malicious activities can play a crucial role in maintain-
ing the integrity of the blockchains. In addition, it also pro-
motes security, honest network participation and availability
of the validators. The slashing penalties vary across different
blockchains. The two main reasons for enforcing the slashing
penalty are i) to make the validator behave responsibly; ii)
to make an attack on the network expensive and unattractive.
The two common cases when the validator can be charged are:
during downtime (validator absent from signing transactions)
and double signing (validator signs two or more blocks at the
same height) [18].
C. Staking pool
A staking pool provides coin owner/s who have no inten-
tion of running their own validator nodes to delegate their
participation rights to a third party, such as Binance, Ever-
stake, and Coinbase, while retaining ownership of their assets.
Consolidating resources increases the staking pool’s voting
power and their chances of validating blocks and receiving
rewards. Further, it negates the stakeholder’s need to worry
about the technical implementation and maintenance of setting
up and running a validating whilst making a passive income.
In comparison to solo staking, the reward earned from staking
pool is smaller due to i) the rewards split among many pool
participants; ii) fees charged by the pool operator. This is
illustrate in Table II [19], [21], [34].
TABLE II
SUMMARY OF KEY FEATURES IN THE POS STAKING POOLS PROVIDERS
Min* Lock Up† Avg. Fee‡ Reward§
Algorand 3 7 - 2.55%
Cardano 7 7 5.39% 4.99%
Cosmos 7 3 7.68% 15.63%
Ethereum 2.0 7 7 10.89% 4.44%
Polkadot 3 3 4.86% 13.99%
Solano 7 3 9.73% 5.84%
Tezos 7 7 10.05% 1.96%
* Require a minimum no. of tokens to participate and start earning rewards.
† Period the stakeholder’s tokens are not accessible while staking.
‡ The average commission rate of staking providers.
§ An estimate staking rewards stakeholder could earn per year based on [34].
III. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
In this section we model the potential implications of an
extortion attack on a staking pool. In the model time runs
in periods t = 0, 1, .... We take as given a a set of investors
N = {1, ..., n} who want to use PoS as a way to earn financial
returns. Let mi(t) denote the amount of currency investor i
has to invest at time t. Let M(t) =
∑
imi(t) denote the
total balance. There are a set of staking pools K = {1, ..., k}
who offer a service to investors whereby they take money,
perform validation activities and offer a financial return. Let
Nk(t) ⊂ N denote the set of investors in staking pool k at
time t and let Ik(t) =
∑
i∈Nk(t)
mi(t) denote the total amount
invested in staking pool k at time t.
We assume that under normal operations the staking pool
will accumulate a return of α in each period from staker
rewards. Thus, ceteris paribus, the investment grows from
Ik(t) to (1 + α)Ik(t). We assume that if the pool’s val-
idator’s perform maliciously the staking pool will receive a
penalty consisting of fixed penalty βIk(t) and ‘special penalty’
γIk(t)/M(t). The fixed penalty is a portion of the amount
invested while the special penalty is a function of the amount
invested as a proportion of total balance. We do not rule out
that β = γ = 0 meaning no penalty (as with Algorand and
Cardano).
Staking pools compete across commission rates and ‘quality
of service’ which would include security. We denote by ck the
commission charged by pool k. So, the staking pool makes
revenue ckαIk(t) in period t. The investor receives return (1−
ck)α. Thus, in normal operations, mi(t + 1) = mi(t)(1 +
(1 − ck)α)) if investor i invests in staking pool k. Investors
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
would, everything else the same, prefer a staker with a lower
commission. They may, though, also value security and so
may be willing to pay a higher commission if they believe
this offsets the risk of losing stake. We assume that staking
pool incurs cost Fk per period from operating the staking pool.
A. Malicious attack
Suppose that an attacker obtains the validator signing keys
of staking pool k at time t and so can enact malicious activities
from there onwards. These malicious activities can take two
related forms. First, they can enforce a penalty in period t of
lost stake. The size of this penalty would be P (t) = βIk(t)+
γIk(t)/M(t). Second, they could disrupt the accumulation of
validator rewards and, in so doing, harm the reputation of the
staking pool. We assume, given that the staking pool market
is competitive, that the loss of reputation would be sufficiently
severe to force the liquidation of the staking pool. Specifically
investors would withdraw remaining stake meaning the staking
pool misses out on future profits. We approximate the loss
from foregone gains due to closure of the staking pool as at
least L(t) = ckαIk(t)(1 + δ + δ2 + ...) = αIk(t)/(1 − δ)
where δ < 1 is a discount factor. This calculation takes into
account that the staking pool loses commission from period t
onwards.
The total financial loss to the staking pool from the attack
would be P (t) + L(t). The malicious actor could attempt
to extort the pool operator based on this potential loss.
Specifically, they could extort the pool operator to ‘leave them
alone’ in a way that would be operationalized through a smart
contract. The exact nature of the smart contract would need
to depend on specific circumstances but could, for instance,
be as follows: The pool operator deposits a ransom that is
transferred to the malicious actor if and only if the validators
are allowed to exit without any penalties or other disruption
of validation activities. This would allow the pool operator
to set up new, replacement validators and continue operations
with only a minimum amount of disruption. The staking pool
could, thus, potentially continue operation without any loss of
reputation or loss of investors’ stake.
In all likelihood the pool operator will not have access to
sufficient reserves to cover a payment of P (t) + L(t). This
is because the staking pool is a financial intermediary that
channels the investments of others. Moreover, the liability of
losses P (t) to stake will vary by contractual obligations. In
some cases the staking pool will be constituted in a way that
the pool operator is directly liable to recompense investors for
any lost stake. In this case the pool operator stands to lose
P (t) + L(t). In some cases, however, the pool operator will
be constituted in a way that the pool is not liable for lost
stake (which is seen as an inherent risk). In this case the pool
operator stands to lose L(t) and any investor i ∈ Nk(t) stands
to lose Pi(t) = P (t)×mi(t)/Ik(t) as given by their share of
the penalty. We focus on this latter case.
B. Resolving the financial loss
We now consider the economic strategies open to the
malicious actor and staking pool. Recall the malicious actor
has the capability to inflict a total loss of P (t) + L(t) on
the staking pool k. This would result in losses of L(t) for
the pool operator and Pi(t) for investors staked in the pool.
We distinguish three broad strategies the malicious actor could
employ:
1) The malicious actor demands a ransom of R < P (t) +
L(t) is paid by the staking pool operator or losses
will be inflicted. In this case the challenge to raise
sufficient money to pay the ransom is devolved to
the pool operator. The operator could pay the ransom
themselves (if R < L(t)) and/or can raise money from
effected investors. If the malicious actor does not know
the identity of investors then it is natural to ransom the
pool operator.
2) The malicious actor demands a ransom of R is paid by
investor i or losses will be inflicted. In this case the
challenge to raise sufficient money to pay the ransom
is devolved to the relevant investor. Again, the investor
could pay the ransom themselves (if R < Pi(t)) and/or
raise money from the pool operator and other investors.
If the malicious actor knows the identity of a large
investor in the staking pool then it may be natural to
ransom that investor (e.g. if Pi(t) > L(t) meaning the
investor stands to lose more than the pool operator).
3) The malicious actor demands a ransom Rp from the
pool operator and ransom Ri from individual investor
i ∈ Nk(t), where Rp +
∑
iRi < P (t) + L(t). Losses
will be inflicted if and only if all ransom demands are
met. In this case the malicious actor effectively signals
the contribution that each affected party is obliged to
pay. It would be incentive compatible for the victims to
pay if Ri < Pi(t) and Rp < L(t). Note, however, that
side payments between investors and the pool operator
would still be possible.
In evaluating the merits of these three strategies from the
perspective of the malicious actor we note that the situation
facing the pool operator and investors is a collective action
problem [30]. This is because any efforts by the pool operator,
or an investor, to stop an attack have a spillover external
benefit on other investors who also benefit from the attack
being stopped. More specifically, the setting has the nature
of a threshold public good game, wherein players (the pool
operator and investors) need to collective contribute enough
to cover the ransom demand and stop attack [9], [15]. The
public good in this case is stopping an attack.
Experimental evidence suggests that it can be difficult to
coordinate on the provision of a threshold public good [2],
[15]. This can partly be explained by concerns over fairness
[35]. In our context, the pool operator and investors may
disagree over the ‘fairest’ way to split the cost of covering
a ransom demand. The malicious actor would, therefore, want
to design the game in a way that maximizes the chances of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE III
PAYOFF IMPLICATIONS FOR INVESTOR 1 OF DEPOSITING THE RANSOM
Investor 1 Pool operator and investors 2, 3
All deposit Not all deposit
Deposit Lose R1 Lose P1(t)
Not deposit Lose P1(t) Lose P1(t)
the pool operator and investors being able to coordinate and
effectively finance the ransom. We identify two mechanisms
the malicious actor can use.
The first mechanism is to use individual ransom demands
as in strategy (3) above. While this does not rule out side
payments between investors, or investors believing the ransom
split is unfair, it does provide a very clear guide to the pool
operator and investors of the ransom amount they need to
pay. This will reduce the risk of coordination failure. If the
malicious actor does not know the identity of all the investors
then they would be advised to restrict ransom demands to those
they do know (and/or exert effort to discover the identity of
investors). In practice this means the ransom demand is likely
to be focused on the pool operator and the larger investors in
the pool.
The second mechanism the malicious actor should use is
a ‘refund’ if the total ransom demand is not met [12], [31],
[32]. This can be written into the smart contract. Specifically,
a smart contract can be written where the amount deposited by
each affected party is common knowledge. If the total ransom
demand is met then the malicious actor removes the threat,
e.g. by letting the validators exit without penalty. If the total
ransom demand is not met then the deposits are returned and
the malicious actor takes action against the pool. This returning
of deposits means the pool operator or investor has nothing to
fear from depositing their ransom amount.
Using the two mechanisms above we can envisage the
economic cost-benefit trade-off for the pool operator and
investor. Suppose, for example, the malicious actor is able
to identify 3 investors i = 1, 2, 3 and sets ransom demand
Rp < L(t) for the pool operator and ransom demands
Ri < Pi(t) for investors i = 1, 2, 3. The total ransom demand
is R = Ri + R1 + R2 + R3. In Table III we summarize the
payoff scenarios for investor i. Given that R1 < P1(t) it is a
weakly dominant strategy for investor 1 to deposit the ransom.
It is similarly a dominant strategy for the pool operator and
other investors to also deposit the ransom. Thus, the malicious
actor can secure a ransom in an incentive compatible way.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
Early crypto-currencies, including Bitcoin, have relied on an
energy inefficient proof-of-work consensus mechanism. Proof-
of-stake (PoS) consensus mechanisms are likely to become the
norm as society moves away from PoW. While PoS resolves
the inefficiencies associated with PoW it raises new security
concerns. In particular, a PoS system, by its very nature, means
that large amounts of money are at stake in performing routine
blockchain validation activities. A malicious actor may want
to exploit this opportunity for illicit gains. In this paper we
have explored the economic consequences of a staking pool
being subject to an extortion attack.
A malicious actor who has obtained the validation key of
a staking pool can make two distinct threats. First, they can
threaten to perform actions that would result in a slashing
penalty. A slashing penalty would result in significant loss
of stake for investors. Second, they can threaten to disrupt
the flow of rewards to investors. This would impact on the
reputation of the staking pool and, thus, result in investors
withdrawing their stake, which negatively impacts on the
profits of the staking pool operator. The exact nature of the
threat will depend on the specifics of the PoS implementation.
For instance, Cardano does not have slashing penalties and so
this threat is removed. Cardano does, though, have an active
marketplace in which the reputation of a pool operator will be
important.1
We show that a malicious actor should distinguish between
victims when attempting to extort. In particular, it is in the
interests of the criminal to set differentiated ransom demands
for affected victims (the pool operator, and investors) based
on their potential loss. This allows the malicious actor to
‘facilitate’ victims paying the ransom by avoiding disagree-
ment or miss-coordination between victims on how to resolve
an extortion demand. Realistically the malicious actor would
presumably target for extortion the pool operator and some
of the larger investors in the pool. A smart contract could be
written that allows payment of the ransom with security that
the ransom will stop the threat of action against the staking
pool. For instance, the smart contract may allow exit of the
validators and a ‘rest’ of the staking pool.
In evaluating the future of PoS systems it is vital to
consider the threat of malicious activity against staking pools.
In identifying and analysing that threat we hope to promote
awareness on the need of both pool operators and investors to
carefully evaluate security. Pool operators need to run robust
and secure systems in which risks are mitigated. Similarly,
investors should evaluate the security of a pool operator and
weigh that against the fee or commission the pool operator
charges. The early days of PoS may potentially see a ‘race
to the bottom’ in which a free market with low entry costs
results in relatively insecure pool operators with low fees
thriving. This would open the door for criminals to attack.
While security standards will subsequently rise as investors
and pool operators ‘learn by mistake’ we consider it vitally
important to try and preempt and avoid such a painful exercise.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This project was partly supported by Ethereum Founda-
tion Grant #FY21-0378 ‘Game theoretic modelling of a ran-
somware attack on validators in Ethereum 2.0’. The research
of Alpesh Bhudia is supported by the EPSRC and the UK
1See, for example, https://developers.cardano.org/docs/
operate-a-stake-pool/marketing-stake-pool/
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
government as part of the Centre for Doctoral Training in
Cyber Security at Royal Holloway, University of London
(EP/P009301/1).
REFERENCES
[1] ADAGO. Cardano stake pool compromised. [Online] Available:
https://twitter.com/AdagoPool/status/1351781426094632965. Accessed:
07/04/2022.
[2] F. Alberti and E. J. Cartwright, “Does the endowment of contrib-
utors make a difference in threshold public-good games?” Finan-
zArchiv/Public Finance Analysis, pp. 216–239, 2015.
[3] J.-P. Aumasson, D. Kolegov, and E. Stathopoulou, “Security review of
ethereum beacon clients,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.11677, 2021.
[4] L. M. Bach, B. Mihaljevic, and M. Zagar, “Comparative analysis of
blockchain consensus algorithms,” in 2018 41st International Conven-
tion on Information and Communication Technology, Electronics and
Microelectronics (MIPRO). Ieee, 2018.
[5] BeaconScan. Validators slashing — mainnet beacon chain ethereum
2.0 explorer. [Online] Available: https://beaconscan.com/slots-slashed.
Accessed: 08/04/2022.
[6] J. Beck, “Rewards and penalties on ethereum 2.0 [phase
0],” [Online] Available: https://consensys.net/blog/codefi/
rewards-and-penalties-on-ethereum-20-phase-0/, accessed: 14/06/2022.
[7] I. Bentov, A. Gabizon, and A. Mizrahi, “Cryptocurrencies without proof
of work,” in International conference on financial cryptography and data
security. Springer, 2016, pp. 142–157.
[8] Blockdaemon. How tezos staking works. [Online] Available:
https://blockdaemon.com/docs/protocol-documentation/tezos/
how-tezos-staking-works/. Accessed: 09/04/2022.
[9] C. B. Cadsby and E. Maynes, “Voluntary provision of threshold public
goods with continuous contributions: experimental evidence,” Journal
of public economics, vol. 71, no. 1, pp. 53–73, 1999.
[10] Cardano. Keep your core node safe. [Online] Available: https://forum.
cardano.org/t/spos-do-not-repeat-my-mistakes-keep-your-core-node-/
37766. Accessed: 10/04/2022.
[11] Cardano. skey got compromised - staking & delegation / operate
a stake pool. [Online] Available: https://forum.cardano.org/t/
what-to-do-after-the-node-skey-got-compromised/33617. Accessed:
09/04/2022.
[12] E. Cartwright and A. Stepanova, “The consequences of a refund in
threshold public good games,” Economics Letters, vol. 134, pp. 29–33,
2015.
[13] J. Chen and S. Micali, “Algorand,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1607.01341,
2016.
[14] Coinmarketcap. All cryptocurrencies list. [Online] Available: https://
coinmarketcap.com/all/views/all/. Accessed: 14/04/2022.
[15] R. T. Croson and M. B. Marks, “Step returns in threshold public goods:
A meta-and experimental analysis,” Experimental Economics, vol. 2,
no. 3, pp. 239–259, 2000.
[16] O. Delgado-Mohatar, M. Felis-Rota, and C. Fernández-Herraiz, “The
bitcoin mining breakdown: Is mining still profitable?” Economics Let-
ters, vol. 184, p. 108492, 2019.
[17] A. Extance, “Bitcoin and beyond,” Nature, vol. 526, no. 7571, p. 21,
2015.
[18] G. Fanti, L. Kogan, and P. Viswanath, “Economics of proof-of-stake
payment systems,” in Working paper, 2019.
[19] H. Gersbach, A. Mamageishvili, and M. Schneider, “Staking pools on
blockchains,” arXiv preprint arXiv:2203.05838, 2022.
[20] Y. Gilad, R. Hemo, S. Micali, G. Vlachos, and N. Zeldovich, “Algorand:
Scaling byzantine agreements for cryptocurrencies,” in Proceedings of
the 26th symposium on operating systems principles, 2017, pp. 51–68.
[21] P. He, D. Tang, and J. Wang, “Staking pool centralization in proof-of-
stake blockchain network,” Available at SSRN 3609817, 2020.
[22] C. Jepson, “Dtb001: Decred technical brief,” Available at https://
cryptorating.eu/whitepapers/Decred/decred.pdf , 2015.
[23] A. Kiayias, A. Russell, B. David, and R. Oliynykov, “Ouroboros: A
provably secure proof-of-stake blockchain protocol,” in Annual interna-
tional cryptology conference. Springer, 2017, pp. 357–388.
[24] S. King and S. Nadal, “Ppcoin: Peer-to-peer crypto-currency with proof-
of-stake,” self-published paper, August, vol. 19, no. 1, 2012.
[25] J. Kwon, “Tendermint: Consensus without mining,” Draft v. 0.6, fall,
vol. 1, no. 11, 2014.
[26] D. Mechkaroska, V. Dimitrova, and A. Popovska-Mitrovikj, “Analysis
of the possibilities for improvement of blockchain technology,” in 2018
26th Telecommunications Forum (TELFOR). IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–4.
[27] S. Motepalli and H.-A. Jacobsen, “Reward mechanism for blockchains
using evolutionary game theory,” in 2021 3rd Conference on Blockchain
Research & Applications for Innovative Networks and Services
(BRAINS). IEEE, 2021.
[28] M. A. Naeem, I. Mbarki, and S. J. H. Shahzad, “Predictive role of online
investor sentiment for cryptocurrency market: evidence from happiness
and fears,” International Review of Economics & Finance, vol. 73, pp.
496–514, 2021.
[29] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” Decen-
tralized Business Review, p. 21260, 2008.
[30] M. Olson, The logic of collective action. Harvard University Press,
2009, vol. 124.
[31] T. R. Palfrey and H. Rosenthal, “Participation and the provision of
discrete public goods: a strategic analysis,” Journal of public Economics,
vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 171–193, 1984.
[32] A. Rapoport and D. Eshed-Levy, “Provision of step-level public goods:
Effects of greed and fear of being gypped,” Organizational Behavior
and Human Decision Processes, vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 325–344, 1989.
[33] S. M. S. Saad and R. Z. R. M. Radzi, “Comparative review of the
blockchain consensus algorithm between proof of stake (pos) and
delegated proof of stake (dpos),” International Journal of Innovative
Computing, 2020.
[34] StakingRewards. Earn passive income with crypto — staking re-
wards. [Online] Available: https://www.stakingrewards.com/. Accessed:
09/04/2022.
[35] E. Van Dijk and H. Wilke, “Coordination rules in asymmetric social
dilemmas: A comparison between public good dilemmas and resource
dilemmas,” Journal of Experimental Social Psychology, vol. 31, no. 1,
pp. 1–27, 1995.
[36] W. M. VanDenburgh and R. B. Daniels, “Pragmatic realities of bitcoin
and crypto-investing,” The CPA Journal, 2021.
[37] H. Vranken, “Sustainability of bitcoin and blockchains,” Current opinion
in environmental sustainability, vol. 28, pp. 1–9, 2017.
[38] W. Zhang and P. Wang, “Investor attention and the pricing of cryp-
tocurrency market,” Evolutionary and Institutional Economics Review,
vol. 17, no. 2, pp. 445–468, 2020.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:24:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.