Integrating Blockchain Technology in Healthcare 
via Active Learning 
Bertony Bornelus 
Florida A&M University 
Tallahassee, FL, USA 
bertony1.bornelus@famu.edu 
Hongmei Chi 
Florida A&M University 
Tallahassee, FL, USA 
hongmei.chi@famu.edu 
Guillermo A. Francia III 
University of West Florida 
Pensacola, FL, USA 
gfranciaiii@uwf.edu 
ABSTRACT 
As the healthcare industries move into the digitalization of health 
records, blockchain application could be a significant game-
changer in the healthcare sector, creating a secure and flexible 
ecosystem for the exchange of records. Making healthcare clearer 
by creating a blockchain system to eliminate fraud and improve 
data accuracy is vital. Blockchain can securely interoperable 
record data such as organs, blood, critical drugs, and keeping 
medical licenses and certificates. With the emergence of Bitcoin, 
the first popular blockchain decentralized application, blockchain 
has become a viable solution for recording transactions in a 
growing list called blocks which are linked and protected using 
cryptography. However, with the ever-increasing demand for 
blockchain professionals and developers, there are few hands-on 
labs/modules available for training current students, the future 
developer professionals. e objective is to develop a framework 
including a series of hands-on labs that would fit individual 
student’s needs for blockchain in public health. 
is framework will help students to find their current level 
and propose an appropriate level of the hands-on lab for 
developing blockchain decentralized - applications in public 
health. is approach will help students to learn and comprehend 
the fundamental blockchain concepts systematically. A set of 
hands-on labs would be built based on real-life scenarios, to 
enhance their ability to understand and solve real-life 
cybersecurity problems in healthcare. is integrated approach 
would expose the students to the cost to risk involved at each 
stage of the blockchain application for electronic health records. 
CCS CONCEPTS 
• Security and privacy → Human and societal aspects of 
security and Social privacy aspects of security and privacy 
KEYWORDS 
Blockchain, Cryptography, Healthcare, Electronic Health Records, 
Decentralized Application, D-Apps, Active Learning 
ACM Reference Format: 
Bertony Bornelus, Hongmei Chi, and Guillermo A. Francia III. 2020. 
Integrating Blockchain Technology in Healthcare via Active Learning. In 
2020 ACM Southeast Conference (ACMSE 2020), April 2–4, 2020, Tampa, FL, 
USA. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 5 pages. hps://doi.org/10.1145/3374135. 
3385275 
1 INTRODUCTION 
Since the dawn of the internet, virtually every key industry has 
invested substantially in computerization. Prior, many Americans 
brought airline tickets, booked a hotel, and rented cars in persons 
or over the phone. Now, practically everything can be automated 
through the internet; the plane ticket can be booked, updated, and 
viewed online. The rental cars can be rented with little human 
interaction as well as hotel rooms. The internet has made many 
things more self-effacing and convenient. However, regardless of 
the advancement that the internet has created, most patients are 
given handwritten medication prescriptions, and very few 
patients can email their physician or even schedule an 
appointment to see a provider without speaking to a live 
receptionist [3,14]. 
The Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical 
Health (HITECH) Act of 2009, was signed into law as part of the 
“stimulus package” represents the most significant US initiative to 
date that is designed to encourage widespread use of electronic 
health records (EHRs). Shown in Figure 1, since the (HITECH) Act 
of 2009, there has been a drastic increase in the adoption of 
Electronic Health Record. Despite the growing benefits of EHR 
functionalities, there are some significant disadvantages 
associated with this technology. These include financial issues, 
change in workflow, privacy, and security concerns. 
Introducing Blockchain into electronic health records could 
reduce the barriers that are involved in complex data-sharing 
agreements between hospitals, physician providers, public health 
departments, and the Centers for Disease Control (CDC), allowing 
organizations to quickly and securely move patient data in a 
transparent and legally compliant manner. Healthcare use cases 
often converge with identity use cases, allowing individuals to 
promptly approve the sharing of pertinent information without 
sharing non-essential or unneeded information. For example, if an 
X-ray is required, the parties interested in the result might include 
the insurance provider, a general physician, the MRI technician, 
and the individual. However, the MRI technician does not need to 
know that the employer provides the insurance. All the technician 
needs to know is you are a valid customer and are covered for the 
procedure [19]. 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or 
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed 
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation 
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM 
must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, 
to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a 
fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. 
ACMSE 2020, April 2–4, 2020, Tampa, FL, USA 
© 2020 Association for Computing Machinery. 
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-7105-6/20/03…$15.00 
https://doi.org/10.1145/3374135.3385275 
 
 
 
ACM Southeast Conference – ACMSE 2020 – Session 1: Full Papers – ISBN: 978-1-4503-7105-6
Tampa, FL, USA, April 2-4, 2020
122
mailto:bertony1.bornelus@famu.edu
mailto:hongmei.chi@famu.edu
mailto:gfranciaiii@uwf.edu
mailto:permissions@acm.org.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3374135.3385275
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3374135.3385275&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2020-05-25
  
 
 
Figure 1: 2009-2018 Office-based Physician Electronic 
Health Record Adoption [1] 
Currently, recording and sharing patient data have several 
limitations that restrict patients’ access to their clinical records, 
reduce the availability of essential data to care providers, and 
ultimately present a barrier to transforming U.S. healthcare into a 
learning health system. One best solution is to keep patient 
healthcare data in a blockchain-based storage scheme that can 
remediate these shortcomings [17]. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 
presents a background to blockchain adoption in electronic health 
records. The related works is discussed in Section 3.    Challenges 
faced in students’ learning curve and principles for adopting 
active learning are described in Section 4. Design hands-on labs 
with real-world scenarios are presented in Section 5. The 
feedbacks from students are show in Section 6. The final Section 
provides the conclusions and future works. 
2 BACKGROUND 
The widespread adoption of electronic health records has seen an 
increase in the unknown level of data breaches. As seen in Figure 
2, the number of individuals affected by health information 
breaches by hacking and other non-hacking incidences has sky-
rocketed in 2014. Leaving many patients alarmed and concern 
about privacy and security of medical records, and other patients 
suppress vital information from their healthcare provided due to 
those concerns [1,4]. IoT devices and mHealth apps have been a 
widely used technology rapidly growing to become an everyday 
necessity. Its application has been popular in different sectors 
such as mHome, mHealth, mCommerce, etc. Mobile health 
(mHealth) are playing a greater role in medical practice. Although 
the development of IoT and mHealth app are advantageous to the 
society, it also contains flaws which attackers exploit to create a 
cyber attack of massive magnitude [7,9]. 
Currently, widely adopted mHealth apps collect electronic 
medical records by using smartphones and store those data in 
server or cloud.  Blockchain serves as a tamperproof system for 
mHealth [8]. 
 
 
Figure 2: Number of Individuals Affected by Health 
Information Breaches [15] 
The healthcare sector has been the most targeted and plagued 
by perpetual persistent attacks from numerous unknown 
malicious hackers, intent on exploiting vulnerabilities in their 
insecure and antiquated next to exfiltrated patient health records. 
According to the digital security company Gemalto’s report “Data 
Breach Index for the first half of 2015,” of the 16 critical 
infrastructure sectors, the Healthcare industry suffered from the 
most recent data breaches, an estimated ~21% (188 out of 888 
reported events) [4, 18]. Many have stated that malicious cyber 
groups mainly target the healthcare sector; to move data into the 
black market. Attackers could use private health information to 
extort money or influence from victims. What would an HIV 
patient pay or do to not have their condition revealed to 
coworkers? Private health information could also be combined 
with the data stolen in the OPM breach to create a database of 
United States intelligence personnel [18]. 
 
Figure 3: Financial vs. Healthcare Blockchain Transactions 
Thus, incorporating blockchain the technology behind the 
popular cryptocurrency Bitcoin, would drastically revolutionize 
electronic health records since Blockchain technology is an 
immutable transaction ledger, controlled in a distributed network 
that has secure encryption [2, 4]. 
As shown in Figure 3, real-world cases of incorporating 
blockchain technology in EHRs is increasing, and patients become 
the platform, owning and controlling access to their healthcare 
information. Moving as many obstacles as the patient requires 
copies of their medical records or transfer the data to another 
 
 
 
Integrating Blockchain Technology in Healthcare via Active Learning
B. Bornelus, H. Chi, G. Francia
123
  
 
healthcare provider. Allowing patient’s data to be securely stored 
on a decentralized network, guaranteeing no single point of 
failure and no one institution has ownership of the data. Data is 
encrypted in the Blockchain and can only be decrypted with the 
patient’s private key. Even if the network is compromised by a 
malicious party. There is no practical way to read the patient’s 
data. Lastly, the infrastructure is self provides auditing and non-
repudiation capability [6,7]. The methods used to add the data to 
the Blockchain also includes a tamperproof timestamp, account 
IDs, and purposes of determining if the contents have been 
altered. 
3 RELATED WORK 
There are many published research papers related to design and 
implementation of cybersecurity hands-on labs. However, there 
are few research papers about designing hands-on labs that 
address blockchain technology development and implementation 
for the public health sector. Mainly due to the infancy of 
blockchain technology, students are highly unaware of the use of 
its applications. 
The approach of these hands-on lab heavy models after the 
SEED projects also known as Security Education, which, covers a 
wide spectrum of security practices.  To attain an effective 
education, to tech security principles that are grounded on hands-
on understandings. Dewey (1938) defined that learning is attained 
through actives participation in the interaction between the 
individual and the environment [16].  SEED Projects have 
developed a novel laboratory environment, which, are inordinate 
opportunities for students to develop indispensable skills for 
secure computing practice. Learning from these philosophic 
views, we should engage students in hands-on experience in 
security education, and therefore, having effective and well-
designed laboratory exercises (or course projects) is critically 
important to the success of security education [10]. 
The SEED projects are designed on a set of objectives based on 
two teaching philosophies: The first philosophy, computer 
security education should emphasis on both the fundamental 
security principles and security-practice skills. To allow students 
the chance to apply, to integrate, and to experiment with these 
principles and skills. The second philosophy, cyber security 
education should be integrated into many other courses, including 
Operating Systems, Networking, Computer Architecture, 
Compilers, Software Engineering, etc. [5,12]. 
Meaningful laboratory activities are difficult to create and 
assess. As such, the Labtainers framework can simulate a variety 
of security-relevant scenarios on a standalone student machine, 
without the need for elaborate infrastructure [3, 13]. However, 
laboratory exercises in which students learn fundamental 
concepts through exploration can help attract students, and 
ultimately into the cybersecurity workforce. There in few hands-
on labs to train our future workforces to understand blockchain 
related cybersecurity concepts. This Framework for blockchain 
lab exercises was developed for bridging the gaps. 
 
4 ACTIVE LEARNING 
The overview of this hands-on lab is to have our undergraduate – 
security level students develop an Electronic Health Record D-
apps (Decentralized Applications); using the Hyperledger fabric 
environment. This active Learning module lesson is to engage 
students in a real-world scenario, to enhance their ability to 
understand and solve real-life cybersecurity problems in 
healthcare. 
 
 
Figure 4: Blockchain Technology Stack 
4.1 Online Hands-on Lab Design 
Before students begin developing the D-Apps, students will 
engage in learning more about the various blockchain concepts 
and terminologies. Using several open-source e-learning tools, we 
have created a series of lessons for our students to learn 
blockchain technology systemically. 
Using Articulate 360, a cloud-based e-learning platform that 
helps firms build online courses, we have created a user-friendly 
module that students can complete at their learning speed.   M-
learning courses using the approach of adaptive response 
modulization is created. We present the learner with a lesson, 
then introduce the learner with a question regarding the lesson, if 
correct, the learner will move on to the next experience or if 
incorrect learner then returns to repeat the experience until they 
have fully comprehended the lesson. 
Once students have completed the several lessons. Following, 
students’ learning progress on to completing one of the three 
hands-on labs: Developing Cryptocurrency using Ethereum Smart 
Contracts, computation behind blockchain technologies, and 
Creating a Blockchain Electronic Health record. Thus, exposing 
students to real-life scenarios. 
4.2 BlockEdu Framework 
Since, blockchain technology is in its infancy and students are 
generally unaware of its complexity. Thus, creating a m-learning 
module to teach blockchain technology systematically. These 
modules are created for students to work at their own leisure and 
pace. Each module is developed using an adaptive learning as 
students are reading and listening to the lectures they will be 
immediately presented with a question related to the pervious 
slide, once successfully answered the presented question they will 
move to the next slide in the lesson. Each module covers various 
 
 
 
ACM Southeast Conference – ACMSE 2020 – Session 1: Full Papers – ISBN: 978-1-4503-7105-6
Tampa, FL, USA, April 2-4, 2020
124
  
 
subject and concepts with the objective for students to develop a 
well-rounded understating of blockchain technology and its 
various use cases. 
In addition, a few real-world cases studies in healthcare sectors 
are given so that students can catch the scenarios in healthcare 
fields. As shown in Figure 5, course objectives are displayed. 
 
Figure 5: BlockEdu Framework Course Objectives 
4.3 Active Learning 
The “learning tree” shown in Figure 6 begins with the initial 
exposure, where the student witnesses the use of blockchain 
technology in healthcare to explain or explore a problem in a 
blockchain technology topic. Interested students will be afforded 
additional opportunities to learn to apply blockchain technology 
to solve a problem or do an experiment. The next level of learning 
is an adaptation, where one has become familiar enough with a 
blockchain concept or model to alter the parameters of the 
blockchain. The application and adaptation stages mark the onset 
of research. Advanced research involves creating new Blockchain 
apps, e.g., creating new models or new blockchain apps. 
 
Figure 6: Active Learning Tree 
Figure 6 shows the series of progressively more engaging 
exposures by which students move from the state of being aware 
of the existence of instances of blockchain in science to varying 
degrees of competence (can use, can adapt, can create). STEM 
students are exposed to blockchain concepts in the foundational 
and discipline-specific courses they take. The extent of their 
exposures depends upon the maturity of those students’ level, and 
the amount of blockchain the instructor integrates into the course 
5 HANDS-ON LAB DESIGN 
During this lab, students’ objectives are to learn about how to 
create a secure, immutable, and decentralized electronic health 
record database. With the patient owing to their health 
information. Creating a singular point of factual record verified 
using the consensus of the doctors/hospitals. Easily sharable with 
the patient's consent. Also, developing a full medical history of 
the patient in one signal interface, thus, increasing transparency 
while potentiality decreasing insurance fraud. 
 
Figure 7: D-App Architecture 
As shown in Figure 7, students will be developing a 
decentralized application (d-app) for three types of users: Doctors/ 
Hospitals, researchers and patients. All users will be accessing the 
main user interface. Next, users will invoke queries from the 
chaincode smart contract. The SDK will verify the global state of 
the blockchain, and queries will be submitted to the blockchain 
via restful service-based API. Then the blockchain will send the 
request to other peers for consensus. After the successful 
consensus, the transaction will be submitted to the blockchain and 
the subsequent key-value pair will be created or modified 
according to the request [14]. 
6 STUDENTS’ FEEDBACKS 
Students were asked to complete a pre-survey and post-survey to 
assess and comprehend the current need of our students. The 
hands-on lab develops to fill the gap between students' current 
academic track and new and emerging technologies.  Many 
students have heard of the popular cryptocurrency Bitcoin, 
however, largely unaware of the blockchain the technology 
Bitcoin and have not heard of the Ethereum cryptocurrency/ 
platform. Thus, introducing students to these series of hands-on 
labs will adequately increase awareness of the various intricacy of 
developing decentralized applications (d-apps). 
Shown in Figure 8, students were also asked about their 
interest in blockchain development. Most students (63%) stated 
that they are interested in learning about blockchain to increase 
career prospects. Creating a lab focus on healthcare aids students 
in understanding the various implementation and uses cases for 
Blockchain. More importantly, students are engaged in learning 
about new development tools such as NodeJS, Hyperledger 
 
 
 
Integrating Blockchain Technology in Healthcare via Active Learning
B. Bornelus, H. Chi, G. Francia
125
  
 
Composer, Hyperledger Fabric, and Couch Db.  94% of students 
have found those hands-on labs are useful. It is encouraging 
message, shown in Figure 9. 
 
Figure 8: Feedback from Students about Interest in 
Blockchain 
During the post-survey students stated, they found the hands-
on lab as very useful. Does one student describe why the lab was 
useful? “Because blockchain is an emerging technology and it’s 
good to learn about it,” and another student stated, “It was good 
to see how the blockchains work and why it is considered secure.” 
Moreover, the student generally expressed how useful the hands-
on lab benefited them in learning about Blockchain, tools and 
implantation. 
 
Figure 9: Feedbacks from Students about Lab’s Contents 
7 CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
To summarize, our objective is to increase our IT undergraduate 
students interested in working in healthcare industry awareness 
and prepare them for the emergent of the blockchain revolution 
and Web 3.0. Students overwhelmingly expressed they would like 
to learn more about blockchain technology to enhance their 
career prospect opportunities. Thus, creating a framework that 
contains comprehensive hands-on labs will bridge the gaps and 
between the rapid advancement of technology and the classroom. 
Under our framework, we will develop various hands-on related 
blockchains. SEED project is an excellent example for us to follow. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
is work was partially supported by the National Security 
Agency under Grant Number H98230-19-1-0333.and by 
CyberFlorida (http://cyberflorida.org). 
REFERENCES 
[1] R. Advivi, M. Cousens, M. Cousens, N. Lincoln, V. Morris, A. Ratnakar, and W. 
Sun, 2016. Developing a Blockchain Business Network with Hyperledger 
Composer using the IBM Blockchain Platform Starter Plan. Poughkeepsie, NY, 
USA. 
[2] C. C. Agbo, J. M. Eklund, and Q. H. Mahmoud. 2019. Blockchain Technology in 
Healthcare: A Systematic Review. In Healthcare (Vol. 7, No. 2, p. 56). 
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute. 
[3] A. Azaria., A. Ekblaw, J. D. Halamka, and A. Lippman. 2016. A Case Study for 
Blockchain in Healthcare: “MedRec” Prototype for Electronic Health Records 
and Medical Research Data. In Proceedings of IEEE open & big data conference 
(Vol. 13, p. 13). 
[4] R. Bathurst, J. Miller, J. Sco, J. Waddell, and D. Spaniel. 2016. Brief Hacking 
Healthcare IT in 2016. 
[5] S. Bhaacharya, M.M. Hossain, and A. Singh. 2019. Strengthening Public Health 
Surveillance through Blockchain Technology. AIMS public health, 6(3), 326. 
[6] S. K. Chau, V. K. Chau, S. Kadri, A. Knight, and A. W. Nanda. 2019. e 
Emerging Role of Blockchain Technology Applications in Routine Disease 
Surveillance Systems to Strengthen Global Health Security. Big Data and 
Cognitive Computing, 3(2), 25. 
[7] M. Cagnazzo, M. Hertlein, T. Holz, and N. Pohlmann. 2018. reat Modeling for 
Mobile Health Systems. In 2018 IEEE Wireless Communications and 
Networking Conference Workshops (WCNCW) (pp. 314-319). 
[8] G.G. Dagher, J. Mohler, M. Milojkovic, and P. B. Marella. 2018. Ancile: Privacy-
Preserving Framework for Access Control and Interoperability of Electronic 
Health Records using Blockchain Technology. Sustainable Cities and Society, 
39, 283-297. 
[9] A. Dubovitskaya, S. Ryu, M. Schumacher, F. Wang, and Z. Xu. 2017. Secure and 
Trustable Electronic Medical Records Sharing using Blockchain. In AMIA 
Annual Symposium Proceedings (Vol. 2017, p. 650). American Medical 
Informatics Association. 
[10] W. Du. 2011. SEED: Hands-on Lab Exercises for Computer Security Education. 
IEEE Security & Privacy, 9(5), 70-73. 
[11] K. Fan, H. Li, Y. Ren, S. Wang, and Y. Yang. 2018. Medblock: Efficient and 
Secure Medical Data Sharing via Blockchain. Journal of medical systems, 42(8), 
136. 
[12] D. R. Firth. 2016. Teaching Blockchain in the MIS Curriculum. Montana, 
Montana. 
[13] D. Ivan. 2016. Moving toward a Blockchain-based Method for the Secure 
Storage of Patient Records. In ONC/NIST Use of Blockchain for Healthcare and 
Research Workshop. Gaithersburg, Maryland, United States: ONC/NIST (pp. 1-
11). 
[14] C. E. Irvine, J. Khosalim, M. McCarrin, and M. F. ompson. 2017. Live Lesson: 
Labtainers: A Docker-based Framework for Cybersecurity Labs. In 2017 
{USENIX} Workshop on Advances in Security Education ({ASE} 17). 
[15] G. Lenz, D. C. Rosenbloom, S. T. Schmidt, J. White, and P. Zhang. 2018. 
FHIRChain: Applying Blockchain to Securely and Scalably Share Clinical Data. 
Computational and structural biotechnology journal, 16, 267-278. 
[16] T. Motohashi, T. Hirano, K. Okumura, M. Kashiyama, D. Ichikawa, and T. Ueno. 
2019. Secure and Scalable mHealth Data Management Using Blockchain 
Combined with Client Hashchain: System Design and Validation. Journal of 
medical Internet research, 21(5), e13385. 
[17] M. Swan. 2015. Blockchain: Blueprint for a New Economy. Sebastopol, CA: 
O’Reilly Media, Inc., 2015. 
[18]    A. Tapsco and D. Tapsco. 2016. Blockchain Revolution. New York, NY: 
Penguin Random House LLC, 2016. 
[19] A. Vazirani, O. O'Donoghue, D. Brindley, and E. Meinert. 2019. Implementing 
Blockchains for Efficient Health Care: Systematic Review. Journal of medical 
Internet research, 21(2), e12439. 
 
 
 
 
ACM Southeast Conference – ACMSE 2020 – Session 1: Full Papers – ISBN: 978-1-4503-7105-6
Tampa, FL, USA, April 2-4, 2020
126
http://cyberflorida.org).