Combining Blockchain Multi Authority and Botnet to Create a Hybrid Adaptive Crypto Cloud Framework
 
 
Combining Blockchain Multi Authority and 
Botnet to Create a Hybrid Adaptive Crypto  
Cloud Framework 
Ravikumar Ch 
Computer Science and Engineering  
Lovely Professional University 
Punjab, India. 
chrk5814@gmail.com 
Dr. Isha Batra 
Computer Science and Engineering 
Lovely Professional University 
Punjab, India. 
isha.17451@lpu.co.in 
Dr Arun Malik 
Computer Science and Engineering        
Lovely Professional University 
Punjab, India 
arun.17442@lpu.co.in 
   
 Abstract-Blockchain technology has now spread like 
wildfire across the internet. Blockchain has emerged as a game-
changing technology for complex industrial processes as a result 
of its openness, availability, and security. In this study, we used a 
hybrid adaptive crypto cloud framework that combines 
blockchain technology with multiple authorities and a botnet 
framework to improve cloud security while reducing 
computation time. The proposed adaptive crypto cloud system 
divides the cloud security framework into stages to organize 
secure data communication and reduce communication latency 
while detecting internal and external threats. In order to 
compute authentication using hash mapping and deploy an 
authentication system to safeguard the various users' 
authentication information, the whole system placed a major 
emphasis on block chain technology. The technology not only 
improves security but also makes the role-based access control 
system and anonymous authentication system more user- 
friendly. 
Keywords: Cloud Cryptography, Blockchain, Multi authority 
Attributes, Botnet 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Machines can be seen as an artificial intelligence Now a 
day's Blockchain technology became a positive pandemic 
by holding the internet by storm. Thanks to its free 
accessibility and safety in nature where the technology of 
blockchain had emerged as a technology of revolution for 
the next coming waves of a buzz industrial profile. One is 
Stuff's Network which is sponsored by the company Cloud 
Infrastructure and Internet things (IoT).In just such a 
context, Blockchain technology offers transformative 
solutions in terms of centralization of power, anonymity, 
and network stability to tackle cloud problems, Though the 
Internet of Things offers elastic properties and flexible 
usability to optimize the Blockchain efficiency of 
operations. Therefore, Blockchain and the cloud with 
objects, called the BCoT prototype, are viewed as a 
promising enabling factor for only a post-set of specific 
conditions. Among these articles, we are bringing a state-of-
the-art analysis of BCoT execution to provide a BCoT 
overview for strategic in specific facets such as sensor data, 
encouragement, and integration of technologies. In brief, we 
provide a concise description of BCoT deployments, 
providing a thorough review with use-case strategies and 
their reach within and outside 5 G systems. 
The cryptocurrency is a Blockchain that is safe, open, 
and easy to use. The Blockchain concept is built on a peer-
to-peer database network in which transactions are held by 
no centralized authority. All Blockchain network members 
have deep sub access to blockchain transactions. 
Blockchain uses encryption and encryption techniques to 
verify the authenticity of data transfers, ensuring security 
from changes and alterations in the linked chains. 
Furthermore, the Blockchain improves the fascinating 
aspects of federalism, transparency, and protection, which 
frequently promote client engagement and significantly reduce 
operating costs. The adoption of architecturally based 
Blockchain technical advancements has risen as a result of 
their amazing features. Now might be an excellent time to 
respond to the field of hot analysis. From a technology aspect, 
Blockchain is a shared service that was first employed in 
commercial activity as the nucleotide lead of the Bitcoin 
cryptocurrency. 
The transformation in connectivity and networking, on the 
other hand, has opened up a slew of new possibilities for digital 
technology, including the Internet of Things (IoT) and storage 
systems. Growth, business procedures, and structures are all 
aided by new building technology. Many communications 
operations, such as tiny towns, major buildings, animals, and 
hospitals, employ the Internet of Things. However, due to a 
lack of resources, energy, and technological capital on IoT 
computers, they frequently delegate IoT device functions to 
cloud computing, adhering to the Cloud of Things philosophy 
(CoT). The Cloud of Things network, which is supported by 
IoT networks, provides unrestricted computing and analytical 
capabilities. 
This also includes a flexible, elastic online storage system 
that allows for the deployment of a large network of IoT 
applications, displaying a massive potential for improving user 
interface quality, device performance, and service delivery 
capabilities. However, because to the aforementioned 
problems, current CoT infrastructures appear to be 
unsuccessful. Second, traditional CoT systems rely primarily 
on remote networking technologies, in which IoT devices are 
connected, controlled, and maintained by remote cloud servers. 
In light of the growing ubiquity of IoT networks, this 
proposal is unlikely to gain traction. Such a set-up is not only 
constrained by critical component issues and failure rates that 
lead to the destruction of the CoT network. Second, greater 
integrated CoT capabilities will necessitate the management of 
IoT devices by a third party, such as a cloud provider, raising 
worries about data security.  
Yes, IoT (internet of things) is a serious threat to the cloud, 
but until then, sensitive information can be triggered without 
user consent due to large identity disclosure and channel 
security issues. 
Third, IoT users of modern CoT processors are 
experiencing poor results. IoT owners have no control over 
101
2021 International Conference on Computing Sciences (ICCS)
978-1-6654-9445-8/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICCS54944.2021.00028
20
21
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
pu
tin
g 
Sc
ie
nc
es
 (I
CC
S)
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
94
45
-8
/2
1/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
CS
54
94
4.
20
21
.0
00
28
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
their customers' data in modern CoT designs, and they find it 
difficult to manage data access through cloud IoT universes. 
Inevitably, centralized communication network research leads 
to strong moving image as well as power utilization for IoT 
applications, resulting in significant data transfer, which limits 
broad-scale CoT development in severe circumstances.  
Crypto has evolved as a dynamic, secure, but transparent 
avenue to address basic concerns with present central service 
providers and to push the next generation of solutions for 
CoT technology. The combination of Blockchain and 
Comet, in particular, makes a substantial contribution to a 
revolutionary paradigm we call the BCoT framework. 
Integrating this new technology provides enormous benefits 
to all civilizations, piquing the interest of academics and 
industry alike. The adoption of Blockchain will provide 
major benefits to emerging CoT networks. 
II. IMPLEMENTATION BENEFITS OF  
BLOCK-CHAIN 
As one of the first cryptographic keys, RSA (Rivest- 
Shamir-Adleman) is widely used to store records. In a very 
cryptographic algorithm, there is the key to encryption that is 
distinct from either the private secret decryption key. Inside 
RSA this asymmetry centered on either the difficulty of 
computer technology to take into account two of the slightly 
positive product quality integers, the "factoring issue"[1]. 
Configurable assistance to cryptocurrencies with 
Blockchain: For broad Blockchain networks the amount of 
information in the different blockchains may be massive. 
Therefore, it would be very important to include powerful 
statistical services to increase the speed procedure of making 
so that scalable Blockchain services can be made available. 
The Blockchain, along with its dielectric and scalability 
capabilities, would provide on-demand computing resources 
for Blockchain organizational culture in the maximum 
context. For instance, the public clouds offer a broader 
footprint in a federated cloud scenario for Blockchain 
network operators. Besides capturing blockchains across the 
mesh network and using the urgent virtual machine skills 
and strategies within each cloud, cloud programs help in 
these contexts. And cloud computing and Blockchain 
integration make the deployed application highly scalable. 
Some the benefits which are related to blockchain are listed: 
1. Decentralization 
2. Security measures 
3. Data privacy 
4. Corporation 
5. Safety Blockchain 
6. Fault tolerance 
 
Fig 1: Importance of BlockChain [2] 
On the (in) sustainability of contemporary authentication 
protocols based on PKI, all available community 
methodology This is based on a public key infrastructure ( 
PKI) where user licenses are provided by a reasonably 
authority trustworthy and the auditor will have to handle 
customer certificates to locate the appropriate strong 
authentication key. However, Authentication Company 
including granting, transportation, distribution, or 
authorization is quite expensive and tedious. Removing the 
credentials management problem can also be competitive 
and, in fact, advantageous [2]. 
EoS is a Block One-built open Blockchain network. EoS 
aims to build a Blockchain network that facilitates features 
and operating system-like applications. EoS uses an efficient 
feature block with DPoS contract to facilitate a stronger 
Blockchain especially compared to the drawbacks of low 
availability and lack of traditional Blockchain performance. 
The DPoS nodes must participate in the witness voting, as 
opposed to PoW and PoS compromise schemes. Only those 
nodes winning the general poll (minimum 21 votes) qualify 
for block generation [3]. 
Although employees hereinafter generally referred to by 
senders and receivers as "customers" benefit tremendously 
from cloud power plants, protective issues related to 
confidential data purchases are already vastly posed. One of 
the major security concerns is data protection. From the 
user's point of view, privatized application fabric is very 
vulnerable that could not be publicly revealed for privacy 
security purposes. This can be achieved by regular 
encryption, but checking keywords paired with antique brass 
encrypted-texts is challenging. The public key encryption 
test (PEKS) is basic cryptography which response to the 
above question [4]. 
A more effective way of proving a file's existence is to 
cryptographically encrypt text queries with a time- stamp. 
The symbol uses a trusted provider (TSP) to assist users in 
trying to stamp their information at night, where a file is sent 
to TSP after it has been created, and TSP delays it and posts 
it to the owner of the file with the time- stamp. Incorporate a 
time- stamp in cloud storage systems to easily outsource 
results. Yet with such a system, there are two issues [5]. 
Product marketing habits are changed by the introduction 
of TSP by cloud storage devices: Because TSP is a 
legitimate cloud-independent company; it allows subscribers 
to connect both to TSP including cloud storage to protect 
their data against details. Consumers already experience not 
only a high contact risk but the cost that use TSP as 
well. 
All the Chain SDI structure and the APIs will rectify 
many critical and urgent statistically significant research 
issues. Such concerns arise health threats will recognize, 
thus facilitating successful rehabilitation would lead to 
timely response, thereby engaging care practitioners and 
stakeholders. We understand the importance of regulatory 
use of the Chain SDI system, as well as the simplicity and 
agility of managing the Chain SDI APIs. [6]. 
For eg, a customer (say Alice) will produce two 
independent orders at the same time; use two separate 
receivers (say, Bob, and Carol) of the same coin set. This 
type of risky consumer behavior is known as double-
spending. Blockchain is an incoherent state where the 
102
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
receiver executes the contract independently depending on 
their local Blockchain understanding, as long as the validity 
of the contract is a good one. It overwrites the economic 
command required to escape the aforementioned issue 
[7][8]. 
We conclude that the registration of unauthorized 
Bitcoin handles is an immediate prerequisite by evaluating a 
sequence of transactions. For some other deceptive 
practices that could live together following Bitcoin which is 
known as the biggest disappointment that crooks have used 
produce company in achieving high-interest costs,– for 
example, 1-2 percent cent of the sum per day. [9]. 
The Internet of Things (IoT) in our daily operations can 
become truly worthy of worship and that also gets confused 
about general security. Detection of infringement is crucial 
for the safety and security and wellbeing of a transmitted 
IoT network [10]. 
Crypto- economics' demand over the past 5 years was 
primarily due to the rise in blindness virtual currencies but 
instead digital tokens, implementing strong encryption to a 
new and exciting layer. If a security researcher is likely to 
follow the method "this method is destined to be uncertain as 
long as these appropriate statistical problems exist 
confusing," the location of temple economic principles has 
to address fuzzy quantitative imperatives such as the 
randomness of plot assaults, the contrasting amount of 
altruism, profit-seeking and bashing-altruistic collectives and 
the increasing emphasis [11][12][13]. 
In modern cryptography, protection standards tend to 
look like this: 
1. No-one would do more than 279 moves of       estimation 
2. Factoring is hard (i.e. super polynomial) 
3. It's   hard   to   take   nth   roots modulo composites 
The dilemma with the elliptic curve with a specific 
probability distribution cannot be addressed more effectively 
than in 2n/2
. 
In crypt economics, but on the other side, the basic safety 
assumptions that we depend on are approximately the 
following in contrast to the mathematical premises: 
1. No community of people who control greater than 
25percent of all computer resources will work together. 
2. Any group of people who own 25 percent of all 
resources can be colluding The estimated total of some of 
these career evidence that can be done with some kind 
of amount of income is not superliner below the lowest 
point. 
3. There is an enormous number of sociopaths and an 
apparent number of the system's crazy people or political 
adversaries and most people can be regarded as relatively 
commercially acceptable. 
 The creation of public users is strong, but even users can 
look likely or vanish at any moment, and if at least some 
uses are widespread repression of free speech is unlikely and 
any sensor devices can send relatively brief messaging with 
one another. Other protection theories can still arise and are 
special to such issues. However, it definitely won't be able to 
accurately say the method is safe or dangerous, or whether 
the problem solved. Solution generation and refinement 
designed for specific social and scientific complexities will 
be extremely important [11], [12], [13]. 
2. RELATED WORK 
In this paper [14] Lin Zhong, Qianhong expanding 
participates, severe network bandwidth and lower entry 
speeds hinder their widespread use of existing blockchain 
networks. And to alleviate that illness, he indicated a reliable, 
ergonomic Light Payment System (SVLP). Billing and 
offering refunds approaches are versatile. This is because the 
division within our arrangement lacks computational 
complexity, so users don't have to find each week for pre- 
images mostly in the long chain. 
In this paper [15] DorianePerard, Lucas Gicquel, et.al, 
defined the use of blockchains to build a new, 
decentralized computer network that has been deemed. The 
methodology of Blockhouses focuses on a method that 
contains three components: initialization of the storage 
device, day-audits, and conclusion of the device. It focuses 
on proofs of retrievability for authenticated messages, 
allowing contracts to check the data is securely preserved by 
the server. The main problem that happens in the network 
may be that the scale of the block-chain is too drastically it is 
impossible to store.  
In this paper [16] Jin Ho Park, Jong Hyuk Park, 
presented the transaction of P2P Network technology. Basic 
measures such as production proof but stack proof were 
introduced to strengthen the credibility of the blockchains. 
The 51 percent state of attack that includes problems just of 
infringed credibility and transaction lack of availability after 
a violation that concerns 51 percent of the transaction ledger. 
In this paper [17] Huaqun Wang et.al, suggested a 
private PDP program focused on Blockchain. The method 
may even recognize the security of the Customer according 
to a discussion on anonymity. There is also a need to remove 
the certificate authentication mechanism to further boost 
efficiency. Hence the blockchain-based PDP scheme 
focused on identification is essential for research. Analyzing 
the keys-evolving blockchain- based PDP system is essential 
if more strengthening of the private key is necessary. 
In this paper [18] Yuan Zhang, Chunxiang Xu, et.al, 
proposed against the napping auditor in this article a 
credential less public authentication system, called CPVPA. 
CPVPA uses on-chain currencies where the on-chain 
blockchain currency integrates through auditor-led 
authentication into a transaction. The security analysis 
shows that CPVPA provides the best defense against current 
schemes. This should investigate options to turn the CPVPA 
into other blockchain technologies for future research. 
Because energy use is the biggest disadvantage of job facts 
(PoW) that build CPVPA on other resource-saving 
blockchain frameworks. 
In this paper [19] ZehuiXiong, Jiawen   Kang, et.al, In 
this article, used a theoretical paradigm for tri- leader multi-
follower game play to analyze relationships in public 
blockchain verifiable evidence-of among cloud-edge 
suppliers and miners- working systems.  
In this paper [20] Mona Taghavi, Jamal Bentahar, et.al, 
Proposed a blockchain-based, multi-agent data analytics 
framework to address the conventional cloud vendor 
103
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
federations problem and impacted QoS. In this current 
proposal, a multi-strategy has been implemented in which 
an oracle takes on the role of a verifier agent in evaluating 
the level of service whenever it is called by the matching 
engine agents built on the developed architecture has been 
seen as cost-effective and helpful in terms of cloud app 
transparency, especially in avoiding SLA breaches. 
PROBLEM IDENTIFICATION 
The fast expansion of the Blockchain as just radical 
technologies is setting the stage in the next generation of 
industrial and financial service industries: 
1. Here are all the issues we find with various sources 
relevant to the investigation of Blockchain and cloud 
technology. 
2. The authorization case does not have clarity as it has the 
problem of revealing the keys to assault the Blockchain 
by splitting the private keys; it does not include 
security for actively supported, as it does not verify the 
full removal of the digital signature. The cases of 
information security do not provide compatibility either 
owing to malicious interference the system is 
inaccessible it does not provide leftover data security 
because it does not guarantee that the digital wallet will 
be removed. 
3. As per the Block-chain, cloud-based frameworks have 
problems with both the violated credibility and lack of 
availability of digital currency after an attack that alters 
the transaction ledger. 
4. The improved Block-chain scenario neither ensures 
confidentiality nor offers accessibility. Subsequently, it 
doesn't offer the security of residual details as it does not 
verify that perhaps the digital asset is completely 
removed. 
III.RESEARCH OBJECTIVES 
1. To build a cloud Blockchain multi-authority botnet with 
the credited dependent crypto method for recognizing 
the attack functionality and identify the traffic on a 
network or application data to maintain a protected data 
control system. 
2. To perform the experimental template to evaluate the 
device output for different quality situations such as 
processing time, capacity, detecting rate, consumption 
rate. 
IV. PROPOSED METHODOLOGY 
To tackle the drawbacks and future research that were 
identified throughout the section-2, we propose a modified 
cloud cryptography blockchain system by integrating the 
consumer and cloud framework attributes visual techniques. 
The adaptive architecture integrates the design of 
Blockchain technology functionality while implementing the 
security system at user areas to ensure stronger security and 
guarantees the access protection to model to evaluate the 
threat functionality. 
To determine the efficiency of the proposed 
methodology, will employ a network and data attack features 
to determine the proposed methodology efficiency in-terms 
of network latency, detection rate, processing time and 
prevent the security breaches. In contrast, adaptive 
architecture incorporates the botnet functionality to identify 
the data and network threats by assessing the attacker's 
functionality.  
The botnet function coordinates at the Blockchain 
technology stage to evaluate the identifiers and blocking the 
fraud. To evaluate the assault functionality, we merge the 
attacker signature by integrating the identification 
mechanism. Within this method, we utilize the machine 
learning access control rate levels by comparing it with 
existing secured and data sharing models. 
Block-Chain Multi Authority Botnet Framework 
(BCMAB) is fundamental to evaluate trust communication 
and privacy protection on over cloud services. 
The proposed framework divides into the following stages: 
1. System Initialization 
2. Block-Chain Authentication Server 
3. Multiple Attribute-Based Authentication 
4. Attack Detection and Attribute Revocation 
5. Privacy Data prevention 
4.1. SYSTEM INITIALIZATION 
This process determines the blockchain network and 
botnet setup. The blockchain is a decentralized network that 
composes a series of the data block and all the blocks are 
linked together to maintain the user's pseudonyms and 
authentication information. The block-chain database intern 
connected with the botnet system and cloud system. The 
blockchain authentication mechanism is composed of four 
participants; including the multiple attribute-based Authority 
(MAA), User Access Control list, Botnet system, and Cloud 
Server. The blockchain network among all user's access list 
information is located on the cloud server, which stores the 
authentication information of users. 
4.2. USER AUTHENTICATION GENERATION 
Originally, each agency produces a pair with encryption 
keys. User A utilizes the block-chain module to send 
attribute-based Authorization Information as well as its 
initial offering keys or resources to demonstrate its legal 
status once accessing the cloud infrastructure. Secure 
authentication Authorities must submit a registered warrant 
to the Block-chain server if the access control details are 
correct. Next, Botnet Program must issue the initial 
authorization signature to the user. Notice that perhaps the 
user-provided authentication data includes the user's private 
details. 
 
Fig 2: System architecture [21] 
104
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4.2.1. AUTHENTICATION UPDATE 
User A will sends a request to the Botnet Multi- 
Attribute-Authority Network system for an authentication 
update in the following Criteria's: 
1. Before the new authorization expired. 
2. If the confidentiality of its encryption key is challenged. 
3. If it asks to delete its public key of security 
considerations. 
4. If the user's attributes signature features to match with 
BOT signature features 
4.3. MULTIPLE ATTRIBUTE BASED              AUTHENTICATION 
Step 1 Users: receives user ID from of the authenticated 
user, and maintains a protected connection between both the 
Attributes server and Botnet network, then transfers user real 
ID as well as other user attribute information to an 
authenticated user. 
Step 2 Block-chain Authorization Server (BAS): BAS 
verifies and validates the presence of true identity regarding 
the registered user, if the user existed, generates the 
authorization signatures that involves pseudonym PIDi, a 
pair of attribute key. 
Step 3 Hash: The Authentication server determines 2 
hash code by distributing user attribute keys to the 
blockchain network, the hashing mechanism produces 
hashing information which is H0 D (PIDi) and H1 D (UIDi). 
Step 4 Cloud Server: Saves hash function H0 which 
are shared by the Authentication server. 
Step 5 Attribute Information: Gets a Pseudo ID, 
authentication signature, H1, and a set of Public- Private key 
from the authentication server, and saves it here in the block-
chain file. 
4.4. ATTACK DETECTION AND ATTRIBUTE REVOCATION 
User A utilizes its secret key to create user-shared data 
authentication signatures while Blockchain Authorities 
Database may use User A's key pair to validate the 
authentication signatures. The offender while Attach its 
username and signatures to the address to control user data to 
forward attacker request. Whenever   the suspicious with a 
fake page is detected, the botnet device will track the 
malicious activity and then get the actual identity of a 
malicious attacker with support of the Block-chain 
authenticated user. To trade-off the attack the botnet 
database employee a neural network functions to assess the 
assault level and attack type.  
4.5. PRIVACY DATA PREVENTION 
Cloud infrastructure A utilizes its very own PID issued 
username via authorization processing to arrange a secure 
information exchange between both the client as well as the 
private cloud while reveling its real identity. Within 
authenticated users, pairs with identifiers and fake identities 
are processed in a higher degree of protection for exchange-
off between privacy and security. This ensures that AS 
reveals the actual identities of every given username by each 
user as only AS does have the power to monitor the 
malicious activity while performing fake communications 
misbehaviors. Besides, only at the authentication point, the 
map of true identity and pseudonym is also documented on 
Blockchain, and Botnet Framework mapping threat details to 
detect suspicious functionality, improving data security, and 
the hashing data is created by the blockchain service to 
ensure data protection. 
V. POSSIBLE OUTCOMES 
For hybrid cloud service models, a trusted and reputable 
cloud system that uses block-chain and botnet mechanisms 
will reduce communication overhead by decreasing security 
computation characteristics and maximizing system 
efficiency when processing huge amounts of data. 
Furthermore, the suggested approach protects cloud privacy 
and enhances cloud applications by aiding various cloud 
services. More importantly, the cloud system uses attribute 
revocation to reduce latency and prevent data leakage. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
This study effort proved the necessity of cloud security; 
security is a key part of cloud usage and demand, and this 
research work defined and implemented blockchain 
technology into the cloud based on the cloud security 
problem. To identify and neutralize cloud internal threats, the 
suggested adaptive crypto cloud is organized using block 
chain and botnet technologies. The block chain 
authentication system defines accessibility by taking into 
account attribute-based feature sets and mapping the 
attribute sets using hashing techniques to ensure a safe 
access control system and avoid access control problems. 
Furthermore the botnet system defines the various attacks 
based mostly on layout of the attack function. The overall 
model combined with the mechanism of blockchain-botnet 
framework. 
REFERENCES 
[1]. Jia Yu, Huaqun Wang. “Strong Key-Exposure Resilient Auditing for 
Secure Cloud Storage”, IEEE Transactions on Information Forensics 
andSecurity, 12(8), pp. 1931-1940, 2017. 
[2]. S. F. Sun, M. H. Au, J. K. Liu, T. H. Yuen,“RingCT 2.0: A 
Compact Accumulator-Based (Linkable Ring Signature) Scheme for 
Blockchain Cryptocurrency Monero”, ESORICS 2017, pp. 456-474, 
2017 
[3]. L. Zhong, Q. Wu, J. Xie, J. Li, and B. Qin, “A secure versatile light 
payment system based on blockchain,” Future Generation Computer 
Systems, vol. 93, pp. 327–337, 2019. 
[4]. J. Yu, K. Wang, D. Zeng, C. Zhu, and S. Guo, “Privacy-preserving 
data aggregation computing in cyber-physical social systems,” 
ACM Transactions on Cyber-Physical Systems, vol. 3, no. 1, p. 8, 
2018. 
[5]. X. Zhang, H. Wang, and C. Xu, “Identity- based key-exposure resilient 
cloud storage public auditing scheme from lattices,” Information 
Sciences, vol. 472, pp. 223–234, 2018. 
[6]. Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H.-N. Dai, X. Chen and H. Wang, “Blockchain 
challenges and opportunities: a survey,” International Journal of Web 
and Grid Services, vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 352–375, 2018. 
[7]. M. Taghavi, J. Bentahar, H. Otrok, and K. Bakhtiyari,“Cloudchain: 
A blockchain-based coopetition differential game model for cloud 
computing,” in International Conference on Service- Oriented 
Computing. Springer, 2018, pp. 146–161. [8].J. Li, Y. Zhang, X. 
Chen, and Y. Xiang, “Secure attribute-based data sharing for 
resource- limited users in cloud computing,” Computers & 
Security, vol. 72, pp. 1–12, 2018 
[8]. Z. Li, Z. Yang and S. Xie, "Computing resource trading for edge 
cloud-assisted internet of things," IEEE Transactions on Industrial 
Informatics, Early Access, 2019. 
[9]. Ziegeldorf, J.H.; Matzutt, R.; Henze, M.; Grossmann, F.;Wehrle, K. 
Secure and anonymous decentralized Bitcoin mixing. Future Gener. 
Comput. Syst. 2016 
[10]. P. Zheng, Z. Zheng, X. Luo, X. Chen, and X. Liu, "A detailed and 
real-time performance monitoring framework for blockchain systems," 
in Proceedings of the 40th InternationalConference on Software 
105
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Engineering: Software Engineering in Practice. ACM, 2018, pp. 134- 
143. 
[11]. Yang, J. Xu, J. Weng, J. Zhou, and D. S. Wong, “Lightweight and 
privacy-preserving delegatable proofs of storage with data dynamics 
in cloud storage,” IEEE Trans. Cloud Computing, accepted 2018, to 
appear, doi: 10.1109/TCC.2018.2851256. 
[12]. X. Zhang, C. Xu, H. Wang, Y. Zhang, and S. Wang, “FS-PEKS: 
Lattice-based forward secure public-key encryption with a keyword 
search forthe cloud-assisted industrial internet of things," IEEE Trans. 
Dependable and Secure Computing,accepted 2019, to appear, doi: 
10.1109/TDSC.2019.2914117. 
[13]. L Zhong, Q Wu, H Xie, and J Li, "A secure versatile light payment 
system based on blockchain", in IEEE Systems Journal,2020 
[14]. D Perard, L Gicquel and J. Lacan, "BlockHouse: Blockchain-based 
Distributed Storehouse System ", from 
'https://www.researchgate.net/publication/338737 
884_BlockHouse_Blockchainbased_Distributed_ 
Storehouse_System’,2020 
[15]. H. Wang, Q. Wang and D. He, "Blockchain- Based Private Provable 
Data Possession," in IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure 
Computing, DOI 10.1109/TDSC.2019 
[16]. Y. Zhang, C. Xu, X. Lin and X. S. Shen, "Blockchain-Based Public 
Integrity Verification for Cloud Storage against Procrastinating 
Auditors," in IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing, DOI 
10.1109/TCC.2019. 
[17]. Z. Xiong, J. Kang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and V. Poor, "Cloud/Edge 
Computing Service Management in Blockchain Networks: Multi- 
leader Multi- follower Game-based ADMM for Pricing," in IEEE 
Transactions on Services Computing, DOI 10.1109/TSC.2019 . 
[18]. M. Taghavi, J. Bentahar, H. Otrok, and K. Bakhtiyari, "A 
Blockchain-based Model for Cloud Service Quality Monitoring," in 
IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, DOI 10.1109/TSC.2019.  
[19]. M. Taghavi, J. Bentahar, H. Otrok, and K. Bakhtiyari, "A 
Blockchain-based Model for Cloud Service Quality Monitoring," in 
IEEE Transactions on Services Computing, DOI 10.1109/TSC.2019.   
[20]. Thwin, Thein & Vasupongayya, Sangsuree. (2019). Blockchain-
Based Access Control Model to Preserve Privacy for Personal Health 
Record Systems. Security and Communication Networks. 2019. 1-15. 
10.1155/2019/8315614. 
106
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.