The Study of DeFi in Virtual Community and Financial Supervision
The Study of DeFi in Virtual Community and Financial
Supervision
Chian-Hsueng Chao
Department of Information
Management, National University of
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
cchao@nuk.edu.tw
I-Hsien Ting
Department of Information
Management, National University of
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
iting@nuk.edu.tw
Yi-Jun Tseng
Department of Information
Management, National University of
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
m1093310@mail.nuk.edu.tw
Bing-Wen Wang
Department of Information
Management, National University of
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
a1073321@mail.nuk.edu.tw
Shin-Hua Wang
Department of Information
Management, National University of
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
a1073323@mail.nuk.edu.tw
Yu-Qing Wang
Department of Information
Management, National University of
Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, Taiwan
ABSTRACT
In recent years, when the world economic activity was affected by
the epidemic, it was very active in the virtual world. Since Facebook
announced the development of the Metaverse, its related applica-
tions and services have instantly become hot issues. Although it
may take a few years for the Metaverse to become popular as a
social platform today, its impact on future community development
will be significant. On the other hand, since Ethereum pioneered
smart contracts in the blockchain, the Ethereum Virtual Machine
(EVM) can connect public nodes scattered throughout the network
into a virtual machine to execute Turing-complete programs, and
the issue of decentralization has gradually spread. Today, as the ap-
plication of smart contracts becomes more and more extensive and
innovative, such as the decentralized architecture and applications
of NFT, DeFi, GameFi, DApp, DAO, DEX, its influence has gradually
expanded from the virtual world to physical applications, and also
has impacts on real financial applications. The recent burst of NFT
and DeFi addressed this issue. There are some gaps between reality
and hype, and it is a lesson just like e-commerce burst some 20
years ago. A well format regulation and supervision seem required.
However, the challenge for financial supervision today is the de-
centralized application and anonymity. This paper discusses the
innovations in communities that related to decentralized financial
services in the blockchain. And the blockchain financial supervision
issues that within the tolerable range of risk and impact to both
virtual and real world.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Virtual Community; • Blockchain; • Smart Contract; • De-
centralized Finance;; • Distributed Ledger; • Decentralized
Exchanges (DEX); • Financial Supervision;
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan
© 2022 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-9843-5/22/10. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3561278.3561297
KEYWORDS
Virtual Community, Blockchain, Decentralized Finance, Distributed
Ledger, Smart Contract, Financial Supervision
ACM Reference Format:
Chian-Hsueng Chao, I-Hsien Ting, Yi-Jun Tseng, Bing-WenWang, Shin-Hua
Wang, and Yu-Qing Wang. 2022. The Study of DeFi in Virtual Community
and Financial Supervision. In The 9th Multidisciplinary International Social
Networks Conference (MISNC2022), October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan.
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 7 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3561278.3561297
1 INTRODUCTION
Since Facebook integrated the AR/VR R&D department into
the Facebook Reality Labs (FRL) and building the “Metaverse.”
Metaverse-related applications and services instantly became hot
issues. Issues such as, what will the Metaverse look like? How do
people transit from the social network to the Metaverse? What
are the impacts to the social network? In fact, the Metaverse in
a broad sense is virtual reality (Virtual Reality). The Metaverse is
an immersive experience that makes people feel like they are in
the real world. The future development and influence of the Meta-
verse can be inspired by the current virtual reality services, such
as games, learning, etc. that are represented by the Second Life
virtual reality platform, which has thousands of virtual experience
and communities (music clubs, role-playing communities, virtual
cinemas, etc.) allowing people to explore and make friends in this
virtual world. After several years of operation, its development has
become more and more diversified.
Although it may take years or even decades for the Metaverse
to become a popular application like today’s community platform,
it will have a significant impact on the future community develop-
ment. Although theworld has generally been in a sluggish economic
activity due to the impact of the epidemic in recent years, it is very
active in the virtual world. The virtual world is equivalent to a
new type of society or community, so it also needs a new type of
financial system. The financial system can be presented in different
ways, such as food, clothing, housing, transportation, education,
entertainment, etc. All can be recorded on the innovated blockchain
services. The blockchain has been developing towards decentral-
ization since the Satoshi Nakamoto version of the blockchain. As
the applications of blockchain and smart contract becomes more
74
https://doi.org/10.1145/3561278.3561297
https://doi.org/10.1145/3561278.3561297
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3561278.3561297&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2022-11-30
MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan Chian-Hsueng Chao et al.
and more extensive and innovative, a variety of services, such as
decentralized finance (Decentralized Finance, DeFi), decentralized
exchange (Decentralized Exchange, DEX), decentralized applica-
tion (Decentralized Application, DApp), and non-homogeneous
Non-Fungible Token (NFT) are gradually take over our traditional
financial system.
Right before the popularity of NFT, DeFi already expanded its
application in the virtual world. Different from the services of
traditional banks, DeFi is built with open source software and an
uncensorable network. The financial activity and service are based
on digital currency or tokens. It is a transparent and open financial
system that open to anyone, enabling people all over the world
to participate in financial activities in a peer-to-peer manner. The
development of DeFi almost copies themodern financial system that
provides the linkage between the cryptocurrency market size and
the real world financial system. And because of the decentralization,
people have the ability to be free from the control of any national
government and surpass the sovereign currency.
Due to the decentralized application and anonymity of the
blockchain, it also brings another wave of challenges to finan-
cial supervision. The traditional financial supervision is mainly
based on the control mechanism of the centralized system, focus-
ing on money laundering prevention, combating capital terrorism,
as well as customer identity confirmation, cash flow transaction
monitoring, etc. To reduce the risk, the requirements for AML (Anti
Money Laundering, anti-money laundering), CFT (Countering the
Financing of Terrorism), and KYC (KnowYour Customer) inspection
programs have been strengthened, and the planning of the inter-
nal audit strategy of the financial system guided by risk-oriented
concepts has been adjusted.
The supervision of blockchain finance can be regarded as an
extension of financial supervision or regulatory technology, but
the operation mechanism involved in the development direction of
blockchain supervision is complex, especially its cross-international
decentralized governance and rejection of the original centralized
control system, it is bound to cause great difficulties and challenges
to supervision. This research discusses the potential application and
development of the innovations related to decentralized financial
services in the blockchain, and develops decentralized exchanges
(DEX) within the scope of risk tolerance through issues related to
blockchain financial supervision.
2 LITERATURE REVIEW
2.1 Social network and Metaverse
For the social network and service, according to Fang [1], social
networking service is defined as: “A new social phenomenon formed
by a group of people who communicate through networks and
its happening is because there were enough people in the virtual
space, enough people’s emotions, and long-term development of
human relationships on the Internet.” Social network is mainly
used to establish online communities for people with the same
interests and activities. Such services are often based on the use of
the Internet to provide users with various way of communication
and interactive channels, such as information sharing and instant
messaging services. Users can build friendships with users all over
the world through social networking sites. They can also use this
platform to track celebrities, share any information with each other,
which breaking the current boundary of space and enabling human
interaction in the online world.
Since the Facebook announced the development of the Meta-
verse, its related applications and services have instantly become
hot issues. Although it may take a few years for the Metaverse to
become popular as a social platform today, its impact on future
community development will be significant. The term "Metaverse"
comes from a 1992 science fiction novel "Snow Crash" by Ameri-
can novelist Neal Stephenson [2]. Metaverse is "Meta" (meaning
"transcendence") and "Verse" (derived from Universe), mainly re-
ferring to the next generation of the Internet, where users can use
virtual avatars to interact, live, and use various avatars in a 3D
virtual space. Metaverse, as an interactive multimedia community
that relies on a huge number of users online, can benefit from the
advancement of new technology of block keys, and thus build a
fair, free and sustainable society [3].
2.2 Blockchain
The origin of blockchain technology can be dated back to 1997 when
Haber and Stornetta proposed the earliest cryptographically secure
chain block in order to design a system that cannot be tampered
with [4]. However, the original chain block still needs a trusted third
party to sign. In 2008, Satoshi Nakamoto published a paper titled
"Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System" and subsequently
launched the Bitcoin financial system [5]. Blockchain is based on
cryptography, mathematics, algorithm mechanism, which is also
a decentralized distributed database. According to the definition
of blockchain based on the basic protocol of Satoshi Nakamoto’s
"Bitcoin Blockchain," records are formed with timestamps, multi-
party accounting. The notarization with confirmation every ten
minutes, and the ledger is recorded every ten minutes.
It is a "block", and then each legal block is connected into a chain
to form a distributed, unanimously agreed ledger database, which is
called a "Blockchain" (Figure 1). Blockchain has the characteristics
of decentralization, distributed ledger, consensus algorithm, which
is not easy to tamper, and difficult to counterfeit [6]. It can provide
a safe, immutable, transparent and effective record transaction, and
the data exchange mode without the intervention or assistance of
a third party. With its sharing characteristics, all information can
be published in the network environment, and resources can be
shared with related stakeholder. If it is private information, it can
be encrypted with the public key and the private key to decrypt
each other’s information, showing a very high level of performance
and information transparency [7].
The core technology of blockchain operation is briefly described
as follows:
• The link of the block chain: The block chain consists of a
chain of blocks, each block header and block body (including
transaction data) two parts. The block header contains the
hash value of the block and the nonce used to calculate
mining.
• Consensus mechanism: There are two major consensus
mechanism, such as POW (Proof of Work), which is min-
ing mechanism similar to Bitcoin. The computing power
competition of distributed nodes to ensure data consistency,
75
The Study of DeFi in Virtual Community and Financial Supervision MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan
Figure 1: Typical Structure of Blockchain
consensus and security. The other one is POS (Proof of Stake),
which is about to replace POW. The system calculates the
equity according to the coin age (the product of the number
of coins owned by the node and the time of possession), and
the node with the highest equity but not the highest com-
puting power will obtain the "bookkeeping right." There are
other decentralized consensus algorithms such as PBFT that
are depended on types of blockchian.
• Smart Contract Mechanism: The technology of automatic
verification and automatic execution of contracts on the
blockchain. The decentralized ledger, openness, decentral-
ization, encryption technology, smart contracts [8], and high-
efficiency characteristics of clearing of blockchain are ap-
plied in financial services, and any item can be used by this
technology And "programmable (Programmable)".
2.3 Ethereum and Smart Contract
Smart Contract as first proposed by Nick Szabo [9], who hoped
to create a contract constructed by multiple agreements, includ-
ing agreements that allow all parties to perform these agreements,
eliminating "inanimate paper contracts". He believes that the digi-
tal revolution is accelerating changes in the connections between
people, and provides a way to use these connections to form new
institutions or application services. However, it did not resonate
widely at the beginning. Perhaps the technology was not mature
enough to realize this structure at that time.
Due to the success of Bitcoin, the application of blockchain in
a tamper-proof decentralized ledger has attracted great attention
[10]. Therefore, in 2013, Vitalik Buterin [11] and others added the
smart contract function to the original blockchain protocol and
proposed a decentralized platform called Ethereum. The so called
Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) can be dispersed in the whole
chain, and the nodes are connected as a virtual machine. Once the
smart contract is deployed on the chain, it will be automatically
executed according to the pre-defined rules.
Ethereum consists of numerous interrelated projects that are
used to create applications distributed on Ethereum. It cannot be
tampered with, so it is regarded as having legal attributes in itself.
Smart contracts can handle all kinds of logic, make full use of the
Ethereum blockchain, and promote the development of Ethereum
into the most extensive blockchain platform. Ether (ETH) is the
native cryptocurrency of Ethereum and is the transactional token
that facilitates operations on the Ethereum network. If users want to
transfer money, trade, or create new applications on the Ethereum
platform, smart contracts enable nodes on the blockchain to interact
under the contract framework. Smart contracts can be automatically
executed according to the agreement, allowing different types of
decentralized applications (DApp) to run on the blockchain in the
form of smart contracts, such as blockchain games.
2.4 Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
Decentralized finance, DeFi is an innovation brought about by smart
contracts. In fact, before the year of NFT in 2021, DeFi already ex-
panded its application in the virtual world. Decentralized Finance
(DeFi), a peer-to-peer financial model that utilizes blockchain-based
smart contracts to ensure its integrity and security [12]. Different
from the financial services of traditional banks, DeFi is built on
open source software and an uncensorable network. All the finan-
cial activity and service are based on digital currency or tokens.
Having built a transparent and open financial system, DeFi is open
to anyone, enabling people around the world to participate in fi-
nancial activities in a peer-to-peer manner. Decentralized finance
offers financial instruments without relying on intermediaries such
as brokerages, exchanges, or banks by using smart contracts on a
blockchain.
With the development of DeFi, it can be said that it has almost
copied the modern financial systems, and then accelerated the link-
age between the expansion of cryptocurrency and the financial sys-
tem in the real world. With decentralization, people have the ability
to go beyond the control of any national government and surpass
the sovereign currency and financial systems. The decentralized
exchanges (abbreviated DEXs) as alternative payment ecosystems
with new protocols for financial transactions emerged within the
framework of decentralized finance, which is part of blockchain
technology and FinTech.
2.5 Financial Supervision
As mentioned above, different from the financial services of tradi-
tional banks, DeFi is a transparent and open financial system that
opens to anyone, enabling people around the world to participate
in financial activities in a peer-to-peer manner. And because DeFi
has almost copied the modern financial system, the potential im-
pact not only on the existing financial system, but also challenging
the national government and the sovereign currency. Therefore,
related regulatory issues are becoming the primary initiatives to
many countries.
The traditional supervision method is more focused on single-
point inspection. After the incident, relevant review and verification
are carried out, and the acquisition data is relatively static. However,
with the rise of online services and the diversified development
of online financial products, the cost of legal compliance has also
increased. Financial institutions are currently seeking solutions
to reduce labor costs and improve efficiency through emerging
technologies.
The current financial supervision adopts Regulatory Technology
(RegTech), which is the combination of Regulation and Technology.
It refers to the requirement of using information technology more
efficiently assist financial institutions and activities in complying
76
MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan Chian-Hsueng Chao et al.
Table 1: DeFi Service and Protocol
DeFi Service Stack Services
Aggregation Layer Banking services or crypto wallets
Application Layer Lending or trading of
cryptocurrencies
Protocol Layer Decentralized exchanges, debt
markets, derivatives and on-chain
asset management, etc.
Asset Layer Composition of all assets issued
above the settlement layer
Settlement Layer Blockchain and its protocols to
tokenize assets or real estate
with regulations. Callen-Naviglia [13] believes that RegTech needs
to go hand in hand with FinTech financial innovation services to
assist operators in real-time legal compliance and enable competent
authorities to improve the efficiency of financial supervision and
inspection to achieve the purpose of active supervision.
In response to the development of emerging financial technology
(Fintech) and myriad of innovated financial applications, such as
Defi, the existing laws and regulations have been unable to moni-
tor financial transactions in real time. Cryptocurrency only exists
digitally that usually has no central issuing or regulating authority
but instead uses a decentralized system to record transactions and
manage the issuance of new units. The blockchain can be used for
transaction supervision and identification, risk prediction, and real-
time monitoring. It can enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of
financial supervision, and help financial institutions to reduce the
labor cost of legal compliance [14].
3 ANALYSIS AND RESULT
3.1 Decentralized Finance Application
DeFi is made up of some orderly financial protocols, and the back-
bone of all DeFi protocols and applications is smart contracts. The
current DeFi protocols include stablecoins, assets, transactions,
lending, derivatives, etc. These protocols can be freely combined
to replicate actual financial activities, so they are also called "DeFi
Lego". Its bottom-up structure is described as follows (Table 1):
• Settlement Layer: This is the bottom layer of the DeFi pro-
tocol or called Layer 0, which consists of the blockchain
and its native protocol, such as Bitcoin (BTC) on the Bitcoin
blockchain and (ETH) on the Ethereum blockchain. It allows
the network to securely store ownership information and
ensure that any state changes adhere to its combination of
rules. The settlement layer can tokenize owned assets or real
estate, such as real estate tokens, which represent ownership
of a piece of land.
• Asset Layer: It consists of all assets issued on the settlement
layer. This includes native protocol assets as well as any
additional assets (often referred to as tokens) issued on that
blockchain.
• Protocol Layer: Provides standards for specific use cases
such as decentralized exchanges, debt markets, derivatives,
and on-chain asset management. These standards are usu-
ally used as a set of smart contracts that any user (or DeFi
application) can communicate with each other, that is, mul-
tiple application practices can use it to build services or
applications at the same time. This layer provides DeFi with
flexibility and a high degree of interaction. operability.
• Application Layer: The application layer creates user appli-
cations that connect to the needs of each protocol, and is
where services are provided to consumers, such as lending
or cryptocurrency exchange.
• Aggregation Layer: This layer is an extension of the applica-
tion layer, created by the aggregator to connect to multiple
applications and protocols to a user-centric platform. Al-
lowing users to perform other complex tasks by connecting
to multiple protocols simultaneously, banking services or
crypto wallets are also common examples of aggregation
layers.
In the DeFi development, there were decentralized stablecoins
(such as MakerDAO). After the success and the establishment of
market scale, people began to build a larger-scale financial system
that followed by circulation, lending and construction of deriva-
tives, and the decentralized transaction protocol was also born. The
decentralized trading protocol, which is often referred to as DEX
(decentralized exchange), is a decentralized virtual asset trading
platform built on the blockchain that based on smart contracts. For
the virtual communities, both parties can use any type of value,
such as between assets or between various virtual currencies, which
is similar to real-world asset currency and asset trading activities.
The Automated Market Maker (AMM) protocol turns traditional
order book transactions into transaction pools (Liquidity Pool, LP).
AMM can be used to trade a wide variety of assets, including stocks,
bonds, commodities, and even cryptocurrencies. All those who
want to trade can complete the transaction without an order from
the counterparty, which can greatly increase the transaction effi-
ciency. Indeed, AMMs is a simple mathematic formula. Take the
cryptocurrencies transaction as an example:
𝑋 ∗ 𝑌 = 𝐾
X: Number of Token A in the pool
Y: Number of Token B in the pool
K: Constant Product
The meaning of this formula is that every time a liquidity
provider deposits an asset, the product of the two asset quanti-
ties is calculated and kept constant. This also means that when
the supply of token X increases, the supply of token Y must de-
crease, and vice versa. As the price moves larger and larger, the
ends approach infinity. When a user is swapping tokens, they are
depositing tokens into the pool to remove a market rate amount of
the other token, as shown in Figure 2. The effective price for the
swap is determined by the ratio of tokens in the pool.
The Price Oracles are very important part of DeFi. Oracles are the
bridge and link between off-chain (i.e. real world) services and on-
chain (blockchain) protocols. Oracles can retrieve off-chain data and
publish this data in DeFi, and the main use of Oracles is related to
the settlement of lending protocols. In addition, stablecoins in DeFi
include USDC, USDT, GUSD, BitUSD, and BitCNY ensure that all
stablecoins can be converted into U.S. dollar fiat currency 1:1, which
77
The Study of DeFi in Virtual Community and Financial Supervision MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan
Figure 2: The Automated Market Maker (AMM) and Smart
Contract
is anchoring stablecoins and fiat currencies. Among the stablecoins,
there is USDC, which is issued by the Center Alliance, a joint
venture jointly established by the exchange Coinbase and Goldman
Sachs’ Circle. Every month, an accounting service company checks
and discloses information to let users know that there is a sufficient
amount of USD guarantee.
With the development and application of blockchain DeFi, its
financial simulation and decentralized anonymity will inevitably
bring greater challenges in supervision policy. Because DeFi, DEX,
are technologies based on blockchain, the blockchain supervision
is the concept of chain governance.
3.2 Financial Supervision and Distributed
Ledger
For blockchain supervision, the international community has estab-
lished specialized blockchain institutions, such as the EU blockchain
observatory and forum, the World Bank blockchain laboratory, and
the International Monetary Fund’s Fintech Senior Advisory Group.
Various international organizations are also stepping up research
on blockchain technology and cryptocurrencies for globalization
regulation of decentralized finance.
The financial supervision of the United States is mainly promoted
by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other agen-
cies. In 2018, the U.S. SEC and CFTC issued a "Joint Statement on
Measures against Virtual Currency", which mentioned that whether
it is a violation of laws and regulations carried out in the name of
virtual currency, tokens or other names, the SEC and CFTC must
conduct penetration analysis to determine its business substance
and take regulatory measures in accordance with the law [15]. In
February of the same year, the CFTC announced the establishment
of a virtual currency committee and a blockchain committee at the
virtual currency and blockchain regulatory discussion meeting. The
former focuses on the virtual currency industry, while the latter
strengthens the application of blockchain technology in the finan-
cial field. In addition, the "Token Safe Harbor Proposal" proposed by
U.S. SEC Commissioner Hester Peirce advocates that DeFi projects
need a sufficient buffer period in the process of growth, so that
new teams and business models can pass through the central The
process of moving towards a decentralized community is limited
by regulations.
In Japan, the Ministry of Economy Trade and Industry (METI)
has been discussing the potential impact of blockchain technology
on Japan’s domestic financial industry. Therefore, starting in 2015,
Japan has regulated blockchain-related businesses and services
in accordance with existing financial laws or regulations, which
will depend on the legal characteristics of the tokens minted on
the blockchain or the nature of such services. For example, Japan
Financial Services Agency (FSA) launched "Fintech Testing Hub"
in September 2017. As part of this initiative, the FSA established
on a case-by-case basis to help fintech companies and financial
institutions identify and resolve potential legal issues and risks
associated with new fintech initiatives. Japan also set up a cross-
government one-stop service desk to oversee the sandbox program.
There are some other supervisions, for example, the amendment
to the PSA (Platform Security Architecture) requires that digital
currency exchangesmust be registeredwith the FSA to operate. This
process may take up to six months, and more strict cybersecurity
and AML/CFT are proposed for both processes.
On February 1, 2018, the European Commission established
the European Blockchain Observatory and Forum, which con-
sists of two working groups, namely the Blockchain Policy Frame-
work Working Group and the Multi-Scenario Case Working Group.
The former focuses on solving cross-regional and cross-industry
blockchain regulatory policy issues, and actively seeks the optimal
framework for blockchain regulation [16]. The latter focuses on the
applications of blockchain in social public sector institutions such as
identification, healthcare, energy, etc. On the EU side, the European
Commission attaches great importance to blockchain standards, es-
pecially the activities of ISO, the International Telecommunication
Union Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T), IEEE
and other standard organizations. It plans to convert relevant inter-
national standard results into EU standards. Over the years, ISO/TC
307 has accelerated the research on key standards such as reference
architecture, smart contracts, security and privacy, and interoper-
ability. Among them, technical committees such as ISO/TC 68 and
ISO/TC 46 (Information and Documentation Technical Committee)
are also conducting research on blockchain-related standards. The
specifications related to ISO and blockchain are as follows in Table
2. In general, the application of blockchain is developing towards
the normalization of active supervision and effective prevention
of financial risks. In terms of digital currency regulation, many
countries and regions have begun to implement a regulatory sand-
box system. The regulatory sandbox initially was from UK that
provided a safe environment in which fintech companies can test
their innovative products, services and business models. Today, the
regulatory sandbox model is also applicable to controlling financial
innovation risks including blockchain.
3.3 The Challenge of DeFi
The recent market reaction of DeFi has been sluggish, and the re-
lated discussions have become much less popular than last year.
Many people hold skeptical about the future development and ap-
plication of DeFi. The recent fall of DeFi due to the overhype of
the blockchain innovation that without knowing the true value
of it. On the other hand, the DeFi is aiming at revolutionized the
existing financial system. However, it is over simplified the con-
nection/relations between virtual and physical world that short in
78
MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan Chian-Hsueng Chao et al.
Table 2: The ISO Blockchain Standards
Standards Title Formulate Organization
ISO/TR 23455:2019 Overview of and interactions between smart contracts in
blockchain and distributed ledger technology systems
ISO/TC 307
ISO/TR 23642 Overview of smart contract security good practice and
issues
ISO/TC 307
ISO/TR 23246 Overview of identity management using blockchain and
distributed ledger technologies
ISO/TC 307
ISO 23257 Reference architecture ISO/TC 307
ISO/TS 23259 Legally binding smart contracts ISO/TC 307
ISO/TS 23635 Guidelines for governance ISO/TC 307
ISO/TR 6039 Identifiers of subjects and objects for the design of
blockchain system
ISO/TC 307
ISO/TR 6277 Data flow model for blockchain and DLT use cases ISO/TC 307
ISO 24374 Information technology security techniques –DLT and
blockchain for financial services
ISO/TC 68
ISO/TR 24332 Information and documentation application of blockchain
technology to records management-Issues and
considerations
ISO/TC 46
Note: TR: Technical Report; TS: Technical Specifications
translating cryptocurrency, stablecoin, and fiat currency, and there-
fore, many prospective investors/speculators can take advantage
form the imperfect innovated model. In the long run, the DeFi is
still promising in many different ways. In the coming G20 summit
in 2022 October, Finance Ministers will propose Cryptocurrency
regulations. It is hope to lay a solid foundation for the DeFi financial
supervision and development within the tolerable range of risk and
impact to both virtual and real world.
4 CONCLUSIONS
The speed of the evolution of blockchain and a series of innovative
applications seems to exceed the speed of research and development
of regulatory systems in many countries. Blockchain applications
are impacting the traditional financial system inmany countries due
to the global connectivity of virtual community. Among them, the
Decentralized Finance (DeFi) has the greatest potential impact. The
traditional financial system has been formed through consensus
in the long history of mankind. However, unlike the services and
solutions of ordinary banks, DeFi is built on open source software
and uncensorable networks. Behaviors and services are open to
anyone enabling people all over the world to participate in financial
activities in a peer-to-peer decentralized manner. People are free
from the control of any national government, and the anchoring of
the currency will eventually cause an impact on the real financial
system.
Decentralized finance has not been stress tested by long or wide-
spread use. It is over simplified the connection/relations between
virtual and physical world that short in translating cryptocurrency,
stablecoin, and fiat currency, and therefore, many prospective in-
vestors/speculators can take advantage form the imperfect inno-
vated model. Therefore, many countries are taking a serious look
into the systems.
The traditional financial supervision is based on the control
mechanism of the centralized system, focusing on money laun-
dering prevention and control. Due to the highly decentralized
nature of DeFi based on the blockchain, regulators are bound to be
unable to apply the centralized management model of traditional
supervision. For joint supervision of greater integration, especially
the European Union, the European Commission attaches great im-
portance to blockchain standards, especially ISO, IEEE and other
standard organizations. In the end, the results might translate into
EU standards.
In the long run, the DeFi is still promising in many different
ways. The lesson learnt from DeFi burst may lay a solid foundation
for future Metaverse applications. The application of the blockchain
database in Metaverse community will be regarded as an important
business opportunity. Using more aspects to do big data analysis
can increase the prediction accuracy. The related applications of
blockchain, such as cryptocurrencies and NFTs, must be an im-
portant foundation for advancing the Metaverse. Therefore, in the
supervision of blockchain, countries, such as Europe and the United
States may continue to pay attention to standards such as ISO, so
as to allow traditional centralized and innovative decentralized
financial applications work in parallel under a sound regulatory
system.
REFERENCES
[1] Fang, Jui-hua (2002) User Assessment of Virtual Community Websites - Case of
the Neighborhood Networking of Taipei Neighborhood.
[2] Stephenson, N. (1992). Snowcrash. London: ROC.
79
The Study of DeFi in Virtual Community and Financial Supervision MISNC2022, October 29–31, 2022, Matsuyama, Japan
[3] Duan, H., Li, J., Fan, S., Lin, Z., Wu, X., Cai. W. (2021). "Metaverse for Social Good:
A University Campus Prototype," Proceedings of the 29th ACM International
Conference on Multimedia, October.
[4] Haber, S., & Stornetta, W. S. (1997, April). Secure names for bit-strings. In Pro-
ceedings of the 4th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security
(pp. 28-35).
[5] Nakamoto, S. (2008). Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system. Decentralized
Business Review, 21260.
[6] Antonopoulos, A. (2014). Bitcoin security model: trust by computation. Forbes.
com, February, 20.
[7] Grinberg, R. (2011) Bitcoin: An Innovative Alternative Digital Currency, Science
& Technology Law Journal, Dec, vol. 4, p.160.
[8] Kosba, A., Miller A., Shi, E., Wen Z., and Papamanthou, C. (2016). The blockchain
model of cryptography and privacy-preserving smart contracts, In Proceedings
of IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 839-858, San Jose, CA,
USA.
[9] Szabo, N. (1997). Formalizing and securing relationships on public networks. First
monday.
[10] Nofer, M., Gomber, P., Hinz, O., and Schiereck, D. (2017). Blockchain. Business &
Information Systems Engineering 59, 3, 183-187.
[11] Buterin, V. (2014) A Next Generation Smart Contract & Decentralized Application
Platform, Ethereum White Paper.
[12] Gudgeon, L., Perez, D., Harz, D., Livshits, D., and Gervais, A., (2020) The Decentral-
ized Financial Crisis, 2020 Crypto Valley Conference on Blockchain Technology
(CVCBT), pp. 1-15.
[13] Callen-Naviglia, J. & James, J. (2018) Finetch, Regtech and the Importance of
Cybersecurity," Issues in Information Systems, vol.19, Issue 3, pp. 220-225.
[14] Arner, D. W., Buckley, R. P., and Barberis, J. N. (2016) The Emergence of Regtech
2.0: From Know Your Customer to Know Your Data, Journal of Financial Trans-
formation, 44: pp. 79-86.
[15] Lyons, T. (2018). EU Blockchain Observatory and Forum. In Workshop Report.
Government Services and Digital Identity. Brussels, July 5.
[16] Levin, R., Waltz,B., and LaCount, H. (2018) Betting blockchain will change
everything-SEC and CFTC regulation of blockchain technology. In Handbook
of Blockchain, Digital Finance, and Inclusion," Volume 2, pp.187-212. Academic
Press.
80
	Abstract
	1 INTRODUCTION
	2 LITERATURE REVIEW
	2.1 Social network and Metaverse
	2.2 Blockchain
	2.3 Ethereum and Smart Contract
	2.4 Decentralized Finance (DeFi)
	2.5 Financial Supervision
	3 ANALYSIS AND RESULT
	3.1 Decentralized Finance Application
	3.2 Financial Supervision and Distributed Ledger
	3.3 The Challenge of DeFi
	4 CONCLUSIONS
	References