Next Generation Smart Built Environments: The Fusion of Empathy, Privacy and Ethics
Next Generation Smart Built Environments:
The Fusion of Empathy, Privacy and Ethics
Denis Gračanin
Department of Computer Science
Virginia Tech
Blacksburg, VA, USA
gracanin@vt.edu
Ramoni O. Lasisi, Mohamed Azab, Mohamed Eltoweissy
Department of Computer and Information Sciences
Virginia Military Institute
Lexington, VA, USA
{lasisiro, azabmm, eltoweissymy}@vmi.edu
Abstract—Smart Built Environments (SBEs) and similar cyber-
physical environments utilizing the Internet of Things (IoT) have
been a growing research area in recent years. Contemporary
research primarily addresses technology aspects, while human
aspects, such as empathy, privacy and ethics (EPE for short),
in relation to SBEs have not yet received adequate attention.
In addition to challenges with respect to technology, there are
apparent tensions and conflicting requirements involving EPE.
On the other hand, opportunities exist for these aspects to
support one another. For example, data collected and analyzed for
empathic response may be used to alert the privacy-preserving
subsystem. An ethical response may turn out to be the most
empathic. The main objective of this paper is to present our
vision for next generation SBEs and to explore pertinent EPE
factors. We propose a unified framework that incorporates a
game theoretic model to address EPE interplay in SBEs. Integral
to our framework, we also introduce the use of a blockchain
infrastructure for the critical need to support data integrity
in such data-intensive environments. We illustrate our work in
progress using an example. We then present major research
challenges for the realization of next generation SBEs with fused
EPE.
Index Terms—Smart built environments, Internet of Things,
human-centric computing, empathy, privacy, ethics, game theory,
blockchains.
I. INTRODUCTION
A primary goal of the Internet of Things (IoT) and related
monitoring, analysis and interventions technologies is to sup-
port the enhancement of our Quality of Living (QoL). IoT inte-
grates physical and digital worlds to support new services that
can benefit from connecting everyday objects (things) and their
users (people and other things) via the Internet. The IoT ar-
chitecture and corresponding implementations differ from the
traditional network architecture [1], [2]. IoT implementations
usually comprise a large number of heterogeneous devices,
with highly varied capabilities and life-spans. IoT devices
have to be connected forming a resilient infrastructure in spite
of the fragility of many of their components. Additionally,
IoT devices are used in different contexts and domains, such
as smart homes (appliances and sensors), health and fitness
(wearable devices), and manufacturing (Industry 4.0 [3]). They
may also be deployed in harsh environments, for example
inside a turbine engine, tiny environments, for example inside
the human body, as well as large urban environments, for
example “smart cities”.
A Cyber-Physical System (CPS) relies heavily on IoT
since CPS consists of and interacts with many devices with
embedded software. These devices could be integrated in
various infrastructure, logistics, and production systems. For
example, a CPS directly records and process sensors data,
controls actuators, interacts with other CPSs as well as with
both physical and digital worlds, etc.
Smart Built Environments (SBE), as a subset of CPS,
incorporate connected, interactive smart objects with sensing
and actuating capabilities in living spaces. SBEs utilize various
sensors that can be leveraged by integration and alignment of
sensor data streams with longitudinal qualitative data from
self-reported (administered on mobile computer platforms)
surveys, questionnaire and other artifacts to identify activities
with the goal of minimizing the required data footprint (both
environmental and physiological). Such systems can also have
mobile and re-configurable components, such as walls and
furniture pieces [4], [5].
SBEs provide multiple heterogeneous data streams char-
acterized across many dimensions. That includes human
in/outside the loop, centralized versus distributed versus feder-
ated control, single domain versus cross domain, governance
and jurisdiction, closed versus open, and level of integration.
Figure 1 shows SBE’s data flow. Through information fusion
from smart meters, smartphones, and specialized sensors (e.g.,
electromagnetic interference (EMI) sensors or inexpensive
occupancy sensors), it has been shown that SBEs’ occupants’
Activities of Daily Living (ADL) and their energy impacts
(e.g., switching on/off a particular appliance) can now be
construed. In light of the fact that residential and social
environments are diversely heterogeneous, the data collection
incorporates and adapts multiple data collection solutions,
inducing trade-offs among cost, ease of deployment, and back-
end complexities.
The environmental data (provided by wearable sensors
and IoT-instrumented physical environment) inform about the
physical world surrounding the subject (or subjects). Physio-
logical data, from basic ones such as temperature, heart rate
or electrodermal activity (EDA) to complex, multi-channel
electroencephalogram (EEG) data, provide an insight into the
cognitive state, including stress, affect and activity. Cognitive
data, provided as a direct input from the subject or gathered
260
2019 First IEEE International Conference on Trust, Privacy and Security in Intelligent Systems and Applications (TPS-ISA)
978-1-7281-6739-8/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/TPS-ISA48467.2019.00041
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
CONTEXTUALIZED DATASOCIAL CONTEXT
MIND
SUBJECT
PHYSICAL WORLD
BODY
S
E
N
S
O
R
S
UI
ENVIRONMENTAL 
DATA
PHYSIOLOGICAL 
DATA
COGNITIVE
DATA
STIMULI
CREATION
STIMULI DELIVERY
Fig. 1. Alignment of sensor data streams (environmental and physiological)
with longitudinal qualitative data from self-reported surveys, questionnaire
and other artifacts to identify human activities and cognitive state.
indirectly from social media (e.g., Facebook or Twitter posts)
provide information about mood or emotional/mental state.
The data has to be collected from a variety of wearable, mobile
and embedded devices and correlated with social media posts
and activities (including social interactions) in the physical
world.
An important problem is collecting, processing, and manag-
ing heterogeneous and geographically distributed user and de-
vice data related to objects, actions and interactions, both static
(built environments, outdoor places) and mobile (vehicles,
train) that could also be human controlled or autonomous. Col-
laborative systems that take advantage of combined data and
interactions can reduce spatial, functional and cognitive seams
to support better quality of experience and more resident-
friendly SBEs.
Technological advances, changes in manufacturing and eco-
nomic factors result in new approaches to how products and
services are identified, developed, produced, distributed, and
maintained. The advances in communication and transporta-
tion technologies allow us to provide access to services that
would otherwise require leaving the SBE. In addition to health,
shopping (e.g., delivery using drones) and education (online
and distance learning) services could be incorporated within
SBEs.
For SBEs to realize their potential, numerous challenges
must be addressed. These include asymmetric and seam-full
interactions, multi-domain modeling and theories, interoper-
ability, system management, dependability, and security. We
discuss some major research challenges in Section IV, while
we focus on empathy, privacy and ethics in the next two
sections.
II. EMPATHY, PRIVACY AND ETHICS IN SBES
SBE programmers, engineers and technologists consider
how the products and services they create Empathy is pro-
grammed in SBEs by developers to create products that can
improve human well-being [6]. An intelligent SBE can learn
to provide services in different ways according to the environ-
mental, social, situational, and user-specific contexts. Context-
aware intelligent SBEs can be conceptualized as living spaces
embedded with computational intelligence, providing empa-
thy and companionship in our daily lives while cognitively
disappearing from our lives, thus becoming “empathic SBEs.”
However, as a side effect, they might introduce serious privacy
and ethical concerns because of interactions between technol-
ogy and information in domestic settings [7].
Privacy is a universal process [8] that is supported by
government policies and laws. It is essential to protect the
confidentiality and privacy of the user’s data, both in physical
and digital worlds [9]. While SBEs can provide personalized
services [10], consumers must be willing to provide access
to their personal information. However, even people familiar
with IoT are not always aware of privacy risk involved [10]. On
the other hand, when it comes to healthcare services, people
are not willing to provide personal information since perceived
privacy risk is high, although the personal information is neede
to provide better service.
The main issue here is that data is like a bullet once it
is fired there is no coming back. Once a piece of data is
revealed it is out of the SBE’s control to manage who is
going to have access to it. The main challenge is how we can
enable long term assurances for the SBE inhabitants’ privacy
while enabling the needed access to the data for the SBE to
function effectively. For example, artificial intelligence and
deep learning approaches can be used to analyze network
traffic packets and demonstrate how user privacy can be
exploited in SBEs [11]. Even though data in the packets are
encrypted, combining and analyzing data transmitted from
multiple devices could reveal patterns used to predict the type
and time of activities of daily living (ADLs) SBE residents
may be engaging in.
Ethics explore what makes one’s conduct and actions right
and what makes it wrong [12]. Normative ethics creates
a set of rules that govern conduct and actions relating to
the consequences of actions (consequentialism), the actions
themselves (deontology), and the inherent character of an
individual (virtue ethics). Applied ethics deals with real-
life situations and can be used in creating public policy.
For example, in the case of the United States Declaration
of Independence [13], while there is a continuous debate
about these statements and conclusions drawn from them, the
declaration is the foundation for ethics of American political
and social democracy. Services and transactions within the
SBE should maintain ethical considerations both explicit and
implied within the specific contexts.
Computer ethics [14] and information ethics [15] explore
ethical issues distinctive to an information society due to
the impact of technology on society. The ethical issues are,
therefore, present in the development and use of SBEs [16],
from the perspective of SBE designers to social factors such
as social isolation and equity of access. Similarly, there are
ethical considerations from the perspective of the residents’
caregivers, including health personnel and social workers [17].
There is a conflict (especially in the SBE context) in using
big data at the intersection of privacy and ethical requirements
and the demand of innovative empathic uses of the data [18].
261
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Empathy Ethics
Privacy
EPE
Fig. 2. Empathy, privacy, and ethics (EPE).
This conflict can be explored in the regulatory and social
policy context, economic and business context, and technology
and design context [18]. The findings can inform better design
and control. There are trade-offs with regard to empathy,
privacy and ethics in relation to the dynamics in the living
environment [7], [19] and the overall performance of the SBEs
within that environment. Therefore, we need to investigate how
empathy, privacy, and ethics (EPE) affect QoL and develop
suitable frameworks for agile management (Figure 2).
III. TOWARDS NEXT GENERATION SBES - WITH FUSED
EPE
The next generation SBEs must go beyond enhanced control
and communication capabilities. When designing such SBEs
we need to use a holistic approach that takes into account the
residents’ interactions with both physical and digital worlds
in the context of the SBE data flow (Figure 1). The physical
world is a IoT-enabled architectural space with physical con-
straints and requirements framing ADLs. The digital world is
conglomerate of services, such social networks, entertainment,
assisted living, education, convenience, etc.
Designing SBEs presents many challenges. One extreme
leads to a SBE that is “patronizing” towards its residents and
decides for them about the best ways to live in the SBE.
Another extreme leads to an SBE that is “detached” and
requires its residents to micro-manage daily life in the SBE.
Somewhere in between these two extremes is a “sweet spot”
where residents feel comfortable and in control without undue
burden of control.
This sweet spot is not static. It can change daily or sea-
sonally, as well as evolve over time to adjust to evolving
residents’ needs and preferences. In order to anticipate and
adjust to those variations and changes, an SBE must be able
to understand its residents and “share” their feelings. Since
the SBE can have more than one resident, the SBE must take
into account social and group dynamics among its residents. In
short, the next generation SBEs must be empathic. they must
serve the residents’ needs of privacy and adhere to ethical
conducts.
Figure 3 shows our envisioned framework for the next
generation empathic SBEs with the fusion of EPE. An em-
pathic SBE combines data from physical world and digital
world to identify context for the resident’s activities and
understand the resident’s cognitive and emotional states. These
longitudinal observations are stored in data repository and used
to develop model(s) of the residents’ interactions with SBEs.
The developed model serves as a foundation for evaluation
of the policy effects possibly using simulation of what-if
scenarios. The policy sets the empathy, privacy and ethics
requirements to protect the residents’ data, including the infor-
mation about their cognitive and emotional states. However,
the ethics requirements included in the policy may overrule the
privacy and/or empathic requirements. The evaluation results
then serve as basis for prediction, decision and control of
empathic SBEs. The interplay of empathy, privacy and ethics
shape the evolution of the SBE and its services.
Physical World Digital World
Data Repository
Deep Learning Model
observation
detection
modeling
evaluation Policy
(EPE) Simulation
privacy filter
privacy filter
privacy filter
Prediction, Decision and Control
privacy filter
action
Emphatic SBE
privacy filter
living
affectingusing
Fig. 3. A unified framework that integrates support for EPE within a IoT-
based infrastructure for empathic SBEs.
A. Illustrative Example
The developed countries have increasingly aging population
due to increased life expectancy. The consequences are in-
creased healthcare costs and reduced availability of healthcare
workers. Therefore, there is an urgent need to understand chal-
lenges and opportunities related to healthy and independent
living, aging in place and overall quality of life [20], [21].
The developing countries are showing similar trends [22].
Effective tele-health services [23]–[27] can be continuously
deployed, e.g., tracking vital signs in the elderly [28] and can
benefit from data analytics and other techniques [29]. How-
ever, tele-health must address ethics issues [6], [30] and pri-
vacy requirements. Related regulations include Health Insur-
ance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) [31]
and General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) [32]. For
example, HIPAA states “A major goal of the Privacy Rule
is to assure that individuals’ health information is properly
protected while allowing the flow of health information needed
to provide and promote high quality healthcare and to protect
the public’s health and well being.” [31].
262
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
An important tele-health trend is the deployment of virtual
care centers (VCCs) as “the centralized command center that
orchestrates and delivers exceptional patient care” [33], [34].
The VCC operations scale well since a single VCC can
support a large number of people. VCCs provide Home Health
Care (HHC) by using personalized interventions and coaching
(using health behavior models) with remote monitoring. This
approach seems to be most successful [35].
SBEs are well suited to support VCCs operations such as
emotional wellness and remote monitoring in SBEs [36], [37]
thus reducing the need for healthcare facilities. Furthermore,
user interfaces and devices deployed in SBEs can be personal-
ized and customized based on health situation and needs [38].
VCC often leverage smart home technology to monitor pa-
tients. Smart home examples can include a single residence, a
building or a series of assisted living residences and buildings.
The common theme is a highly sensed environment that can
identify and record ADLs and daily patterns of behavior. That
introduces specific privacy and ethical issues that involves
residents and caregivers [17].
Significant research currently being undertaken is focusing
on the extraction of ADLs from such data, and cases where
unhealthy behaviors are found are used to guide interventions.
There is a number of academic smart house projects related
to aging-in-place that utilize a network of wired and wireless
sensors to measure vital signs and track residents and their
activities [39]–[41].
Standardization efforts related to tele-health and health
informatics [42], [43] have also include privacy related is-
sues [44]. An important aspect of this research are privacy
issues [45], [46] in the context of health data [46], domestic
environments [47], [48], local community [49], [50] and online
collaboration [51].
The right to privacy has long been advocated and pro-
moted [52], [53]. Privacy-aware software development [54]
and the role of privacy in computing and online systems was
recognized early on in many applications domains, such as
mobile computing [55], e-commerce [56], and child protec-
tion [57].
Computer and information security [58] has a strong impact
on patient safety which is one of the main concerns of health-
care organizations. Knowing privacy risks [59] in the context
of IoT-based infrastructures is essential [60] and may depend
on regional differences (e.g. between HIPAA and GDPR) [61].
The goal is to ensure the security of patients’ healthcare data,
realize access control for normal and emergency scenarios,
and support smart de-duplication to save the storage space in
big data storage system [62].
B. Game Theoretic Model for EPE in SBEs
Game-theoretic techniques are prevalent in analyzing ef-
fects of strategic behaviors and interactions among entities
in today’s CPS [63]–[67]. These interactions are modeled as
games between players, such as an attacker and a system’s
administrator. There appears to be some understanding of
players’ interactions in CPS using various game-theoretic tools
[68].
An example of application of game theory models to IoT
systems is smart transportation [69]. The purpose is identify
new privacy related threats (e.g., drivers tracking and profil-
ing). Adaptive and context-aware privacy protection solutions
are need to address these threats while dealing with the
environmental and resource constraints (e.g., memory, energy,
communication channel). A game theory model between two
actors (data holder and data requester) can find an equilibrium
point reaching a compromise between privacy concessions and
incentive motivation [69].
Similar extensions to understand strategic interactions
among the several actors in SBEs can be made. We employ
a game theory model namely, Qualitative Coalitional Game
(QCG) [70], to explore the EPE interplay in SBEs.
Following the example above, we define a SBE in a HHC
domain and define k different types of actors (i.e., agents)
in the domain. For example in the HHC domain, we may
have three types of agents, namely, patients, caregivers, and
visitors. SBEs are built with certain goal(s) in mind. Let
G = {g1, . . . gm} be the set of these possible goals. Further-
more, we assume that agents in a SBE have the capability
to exercise ethic, empathic and privacy-preserving behaviors
depending on the current goals of their SBE. All goals in
the domain are defined to balance the effects of ethics (i.e.,
maximize adherence to norms or code of conduct), empathy
(i.e., maximize the ability to share others’ feelings), and
privacy-preserving (i.e., maximize protection) behaviors.
Let A = {1, . . . , n} be a set of n agents in the SBE
consisting of the k types of agents. Let Gi ⊆ G be a set of
goals for each agent i ∈ A. Gi is the set of rational outcomes
(i.e., goals) that agent i cares about. The agent would be happy
if some or all of its goals are satisfied. We assume that the
SBE goal is made up of all the goals of the agents it contains,
i.e., G = ∪iGi.
Suppose the overall goal of the SBE is to provide the best
healthcare services given good ethics, empathy, and privacy-
preserving behaviors by the agents. To achieve this goal,
agents in the SBE may need to form coalitions (i.e., subsets)
of agents that include appropriate number of agents’ types
who are able to bring about the SBE goals. For example, a
coalition of agents consisting of only caregivers and visitors
in the HHC domain without patients will not satisfy the goal
of the SBE.
Thus for any coalition S ⊆ A of agents, the coalition’s
value v(S) is v(S) ⊆ G, i.e., the set of possible goals that
satisfy all members of S. This interpretation of this version
of the QCG game leads to the characteristic function for the
game (Equation 1).
v : 2A → 2G (1)
The goals of coalition S is not satisfied when v(S) is
empty or when S does not contain appropriate types of agents.
This thus leads to the following research question:How can
263
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TABLE I
CHARACTERISTIC FUNCTION OF THE QCG GAME.
S ∅ {C} {P} {V } {C,P} {C, V } {P, V } {C,P, V }
v(S) ∅ ∅ ∅ ∅ {r, s, t} ∅ ∅ {r, s, t}
we come about a balance of appropriate number of agents’
types in coalitions that may achieve SBEs goals in different
domains?
Consider the following example that illustrate the QCG
model described above. Charlie (C), Peter (P ), and Oscar
(O) are three types of players in a HHC domain. Let C be
a caregiver, P , a patient, and O, a visitor. Let a SBE be
interested in achieving at least any two goals from r, s, and t,
which must include goals of the patient and caregiver. Agent
C has preference for goal t, agent P has preference for goals
r and s, while agent O preference is for goal s.
We can model this SBE problem as a QCG game as follows:
agents A = {C,P, V }, SBE goal, G = {r, s, t}, agent C
goal, GC = {t}, agent P goal, GP = {r, s}, and agent O
goal, GO = {s}. The characteristic function of the game that
determines the set of possible goals that can be satisfied by
each coalition is given in Table I.
For this game to work, we need to have the appropriate tools
to enable players to exchange control rights over the data. The
main challenge here is in enabling leakage-resilient access to
the data. Given the recent advances in blockchains, we believe
that it can be very helpful as an infrastructure to hold the data
and to enable transparent, leakage-resistant processing in a full
distributed and balanced manner.
C. Blockchain Infrastructure for Integrity and Privacy in SBEs
Blockchain is a distributed secure ledger that organizes a list
of transactions or data pieces into a long unbreakable chain
of blocks [71]. Integrity is enforced using cryptographic and
hashing techniques, and verified by a transparent distributed
process using a decentralized consensus procedure.
The chain blocks are glued concretely using a cryptographic
linkage technique where the hash value of the previous blocks
are embedded into the next block waiving any chance of
adding unverified blocks to the chain. The management pro-
cess is totally decentralized in a consensus based technique
enforced by the network.
The process controls who is authorized to add transactions,
how the transactions are processed, and the read protocol for
secure verification of the blockchain. That ensures that once
a transaction is verified and added to the chain it cannot be
altered or compromised retrospectively. The data integrity of
each block is assured. The aforementioned features of the such
technology makes it the perfect fit for the game infrastructure.
Blockchains can be the place holder for the data and the
SBE agent transactions over this data. Further, it can be used
as an enforcement mechanism for policies and procedures.
A unique feature about blockchains is that it comes with an
intrinsic pseudonymity by design that can be used in preserving
privacy agent [72]. Pseudonymity refers to a state of disguised
identity where users’ real identity is a random hash of public
keys in the network. The participants use their public key
hash (pseudo-identity) to interact with the system without
revealing actual identity. One user can have multiple pseudo-
identities. The system can generate as many key pairs (multiple
addresses) as they want to ensure that the user identity will be
kept safe. However, that might not be very effective against
inference or unlinkability.
Unlinkability refers to the failure to correlate transactions
with some pre-knowledge about the actual user with high
confidence in an attempt to reveal his/her true identity. If
the user uses one pseudo-identity then it will not be hard
for attackers to launch a de-anonymization inference attack,
that links the user transactions together to uncover his/her true
identity For that, SBE’s infrastructure should enable the use of
multiple pseudonymous identities without losing the ability for
the system and authorized agents to correlate these identities
together.
Our aim is that by enabling pseudonymous transactions
while ensuring unlinkability and the help of regulated access
to the data through smart contracts, blockchains can enable
users to access the data without losing control on the empathy,
privacy and ethics balance. However, technical challenges
remain. Unlinkability should be assured by design while
successfully integrating the blockchains into SBEs for instant
access to the distributed data ledger with all smart operations
intrinsically embedded within the chain for the agents to use
in a fully trustworthy manner.
IV. RESEARCH CHALLENGES
In this section we discuss ten major research challenges, in
no specific order, for the next generation of SBEs. Our primary
focus is on SBEs as enablers of ADLs and comfortable living
in support of QoL while maintaining healthy social fabric.
Conflicting requirements and tension for EPE:
As stated earlier, more detailed and broad information leads
to better empathic actions and responses. This is usually in
contradiction with preserving privacy. How to achieve the
“right balance”? Is it possible to maximize empathy while
maintaining high levels of privacy? How do ethics factor in
this mix? What would be the extent of human involvement
and how? What constitute privacy violations in accordance to
regulations and the modern and future use of SBEs?
Lack of comprehensive end-to-end standards, security and
management platforms:
At the time of writing this paper, we know of no end-to-
end standards guiding SBE development especially on issues
of EPE. Such lack of standards make it difficult to design and
build systems and management platforms for mass production
264
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
and various scales. With the vastly diverse user requirements,
technologies that are in early stages of development and use,
predominantly outdated infrastructure systems, there is a need
for new reference architectures and systems for extensible,
re-configurable and scalable management platforms with end-
to-end security and standards.
Limited data collections and measurement devices and
tools, metrics and baseline data:
There is a need to collect bid data sets and synthesize
baseline datasets. There is also a need to derive suitable
metrics to express the EPE interplay. Research is also needed
on the design and construction of complex and noisy data
filters, models and tools. It is usually expensive to build
physical prototypes of meaningful SBEs for experimentation.
Also fitting current environments with adequate SBE gear
is a daunting task. Mixed reality environments are showing
promise.
Visible seams:
Contemporary SBEs do not adequately address the problem
of visible seams, including spatial, temporal, cognitive, cul-
tural, technological, etc. The success of empathic SBEs relies
on the disappearance or at least the reduction of such visible
seams. How could we integrate and weave together multi-
dimensional contexts for a (near) natural feel and experience?
How can we build management platforms where human-
human, Human-machine and machine-machine interactions
and relationships can be intuitively established and effectively
maintained across seams? How can we provide end-to-end
interactions that are“virtually” seamless while preserving per-
sonalized preferences? How to resolve fragmented security
across seams?
Social Deficit Multiplier:
SBEs are being used by one or more individuals. Multiple
users are likely to introduce contradictions is EPE require-
ments and also in their conditions and preferences. The gap
between the desired system environment and the actual one is
likely to increase. The management of EPE is such context has
many challenges. How to monitor and collect data for multiple
users with conflicting requirements? How to reduce the impact
of contradictions while satisfying personal preferences? How
to evolve the EPE management in a dynamic environment with
ephemeral participation?
Lack of understanding of SBE participants and their
ethical and cultural issues:
What are the spectrum of issues that concern SBE partici-
pants as individuals and groups? What constitutes SBE ethics?
How to formulate policy for highly autonomic and autonomous
environments with ethical and cultural considerations? How
to manage and make decisions autonomously when different
ethics frameworks co-exist and both human and machine
make decisions? What ethical code should govern machine to
machine interactions, particularly when EPE is at play? Should
autonomous things make decisions based on crowd ethics or
historical patterns, and how?
SBEs as building blocks for Smart Society:
The rise of IoT and Smart Cities provide opportunities for
more efficient management and utilization of the available
resources. How to use SBEs as building blocks for Smart
Cities? How to integrate SBEs with the supporting utilities
infrastructure?
Blockchain and data integrity:
Relying on pseudoanonymity to preserve privacy is not
enough for SBEs. Given the recent advances in machine
learning , linking pseudo IDs with real identities would be
easy. Enabling transparent, distributed and privacy friendly
processing of data is a major challenge. we Believe that the
use of elaborate techniques such as zero-knowledge proofs
and homomorphic encryption might present a responsible
solution to such challenge. However, these technologies are
very restricted and complicated [73]. In this case the question
would be, will it be possible to integrate such complicated
techniques in an application like SBEs seamlessly without any
impact on its operation, or enabled features?
Impact on law, policy and government:
Privacy requirements (e.g., HIPAA, GDPR) and ethics [6],
[30] need to be taken into account when supporting empathy.
Similar issues are being addressed for self-driving cars and
similar autonomous systems. If empathy enables us to get an
insight into SBE’s inhabitant mental state, how to use it in
accordance with the law? For example, if suicidal tendencies
are detected based on the longitudinal SBE’s data, is it
acceptable to violate privacy laws and inform health services?
Game theory model:
We have demonstrated a possible interplay among EPE in
SBEs using the QCG model. The model proposes a possible
way to balance the tension among EPE by requiring the
selection of appropriate number of agents in coalitions that
are formed to meet the overall SBEs goal. Since a naı̈ve
representation of the values of the coalitions is exponential in
the number, n, of agents, and in our case, as well as the type,
k, of agents in the game. The question then arises of how to
represent or encode this version of the QCG game as input to a
program? Furthermore, are there other more appropriate game
models, possibly non-cooperative games, that better explore
EPE interplay in SBEs than the cooperative QCG model we
have used here?
V. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we explored the fusion of EPE issues
pertaining to SBEs. We presented a framework and game-
theoretic model for addressing the relationships that may
be in conflict or support of one another. We also discussed
important research challenges that need to be resolved for our
vision to be realized in practice. Moving forward, researchers
and developers of SBEs need to consider the evolution of
such environments over the next 10 to 20 years and develop
thoughtful solutions for the fusion of EPE in SBEs. We
265
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
must also develop better understanding of the impact on the
workforce and the relationships among people living in small
communities to those living in a globalized setting [74].
It is not clear how we can exploit existing social capital
and SBEs, particularly in small communities for the benefit of
these largely decaying communities. It is also not clear how
to transform the retraining spectrum; jobs in the future will
require higher skill sets. The retooling programs of today will
indeed fall short. Developing, building, using and maintain-
ing next generation SBEs require workforce modernization.
Globalization and technological advances have changed the
demand for production workers and the nature of production
jobs. Information technology continues to transform our soci-
ety. Consequently, advances in automation, robotics, artificial
intelligence, and machine learning require new models of
human engagement [75]. Research and serious effort need to
be dedicated to incorporate these new and advanced concepts
into STEM and workforce education and training the gap is
widening and the threat of a perceived ”useless class” is real!
REFERENCES
[1] D. Miorandi, S. Sicari, F. D. Pellegrini, and I. Chlamtac, “Internet of
things: Vision, applications and research challenges,” Ad Hoc Networks,
vol. 10, no. 7, pp. 1497–1516, Sep. 2012.
[2] —, “Disruptive civil technologies: Six technologies with potential im-
pacts on us interests out to 2025,” SRI Consulting, National Intelligence
Council (NIC), Tech. Rep. CR 2008-07, Apr. 2008.
[3] V. Alcácer and V. Cruz-Machado, “Scanning the industry 4.0: A liter-
ature review on technologies for manufacturing systems,” Engineering
Science and Technology, an International Journal, vol. 22, no. 3, pp.
899–919, 2019.
[4] D. Gračanin, M. Eltoweissy, L. Cheng, and R. Tasooji, “Reconfigurable
spaces and places in smart built environments: A service centric ap-
proach,” in HCI International 2018 — Posters’ Extended Abstracts
(HCI 2018), ser. Communications in Computer and Information Science,
C. Stephanidis, Ed., vol. 852. Cham: Springer, 15–20 Jul. 2018, pp.
463–468.
[5] A. Sprowitz, S. Pouya, S. Bonardi, J. V. D. Kieboom, R. Mockel,
A. Billard, P. Dillenbourg, and A. J. Ijspeert, “Roombots: Reconfig-
urable robots for adaptive furniture,” IEEE Computational Intelligence
Magazine, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 20–32, Aug. 2010.
[6] R. C. Arkin, “Ethics and autonomous systems: Perils and promises [point
of view],” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 104, no. 10, pp. 1779–1781,
Oct. 2016.
[7] F. Kirchbuchner, T. Grosse-Puppendahl, M. R. Hastall, M. Distler, and
A. Kuijper, “Ambient intelligence from senior citizens’ perspectives: Un-
derstanding privacy concerns, technology acceptance, and expectations,”
in Ambient Intelligence, B. De Ruyter, A. Kameas, P. Chatzimisios, and
I. Mavrommati, Eds. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2015,
pp. 48–59.
[8] I. Altman, “Privacy regulation: Culturally universal or culturally spe-
cific?” Journal of Social Issues, vol. 33, no. 3, pp. 66–84, 1977.
[9] J. D. Halamka, P. Szolovitsa, D. Rind, and C. Safran, “A WWW imple-
mentation of national recommendations for protecting electronic health
information,” Journal of American Medical Informatics Association,
vol. 9, pp. 320–330, 2002.
[10] D. Kim, K. Park, Y. Park, and J.-H. Ahn, “Willingness to provide
personal information: Perspective of privacy calculus in IoT services,”
Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 92, pp. 273–281, 2019.
[11] R. A. Ameedee and W. Lee, “Exploiting user privacy in IoT devices
using deep learning and its mitigation,” in Twelfth International Con-
ference on Emerging Security Information, Systems and Technologies,
2018, pp. 43–47.
[12] P. Kleinman, Philosophy 101 From Plato and Socrates to Ethics and
Metaphysics, an Essential Primer on the History of Thought. Avon,
MA: Adams Media, 2013.
[13] —, The Constitution of the United States with the Declaration of
Independence and the Articles of Confederation. New York: Barnes &
Noble, 2005.
[14] P. Brey, Ethical Aspects of Information Security and Privacy. Berlin,
Heidelberg: Springer, 2007, pp. 21–36.
[15] L. Floridi, “Information ethics: On the philosophical foundation of
computer ethics,” Ethics and Information Technology, vol. 1, no. 1, pp.
33–52, May 1999.
[16] G. Birchley, R. Huxtable, M. Murtagh, R. ter Meulen, P. Flach, and
R. Gooberman-Hill, “Smart homes, private homes? an empirical study
of technology researchers’ perceptions of ethical issues in developing
smart-home health technologies,” BMC Medical Ethics, vol. 18, no. 1,
p. 23, 2017.
[17] J. Chung, G. Demiris, and H. J. Thompson, “Ethical considerations
regarding the use of smart home technologies for older adults: An
integrative review,” Annual Review of Nursing Research, vol. 34, no. 1,
pp. 155–181, 2016.
[18] K. R. Sollins, “IoT big data security and privacy vs. innovation,” IEEE
Internet of Things Journal, 2019.
[19] Institute of Medicine and National Research Council, Fostering Indepen-
dence, Participation, and Healthy Aging Through Technology: Workshop
Summary. Washington, D.C.: The National Academies Press, 2013.
[20] S. T. Peek, E. J. Wouters, J. van Hoof, K. G. Luijkx, H. R. Boeije,
and H. J. Vrijhoef, “Factors influencing acceptance of technology for
aging in place: A systematic review,” International Journal of Medical
Informatics, vol. 83, no. 4, pp. 235–248, 2014.
[21] K. K. Walman, “Older Americans 2016: Key indicators of well-being,”
Federal Interagency Forum on Aging-Related Statistics, Washington,
D.C., Tech. Rep., 2016.
[22] World Health Organization, “World report on ageing and health,” World
Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland, Full report, 2015.
[23] Z. Mahmood, H. Ning, A. Ullah, and X. Yao, “Secure authentication and
prescription safety protocol for telecare health services using ubiquitous
IoT,” Applied Sciences, vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 1–22, 2017.
[24] National Research Council, Computational Technology for Effective
Health Care: Immediate Steps and Strategic Directions. Washington,
D.C.: National Academies Press, 2009.
[25] President’s Information Technology Committee, “Revolutionizing
healthcare through information technology,” The Networking and In-
formation Technology Research and Development (NITRD) Program,
Alexandria, VA, PITAC Reports, Jun. 2004.
[26] Telligen and gpTRAC, “Telehealth start-up and resource guide,” Office
of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology (ONC),
Version 1.1, Oct. 2014.
[27] B. Sinclair, IoT Inc.: How Your Company Can Use the Internet of Things
to Win in the Outcome Economy. New York: McGraw-Hill Education,
2 Jun. 2017.
[28] P. Sundaravadivel, E. Kougianos, S. P. Mohanty, and M. K. Ganap-
athiraju, “Everything you wanted to know about smart health care:
Evaluating the different technologies and components of the Internet of
Things for better health,” IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 18–28, Jan. 2018.
[29] M. Martin, R. Weibel, C. Röcke, and S. M. Boker, “Semantic activity
analytics for healthy aging,” IEEE Computing Edge, vol. 4, no. 12, pp.
36–40, Dec. 2018.
[30] K. A. Stroetmann, L. Kubitschke, S. Robinson, V. Stroetmann,
K. Cullen, and D. McDaid, “How can telehealth help in the provision
of integrated care?” World Health Organization, Regional Office for
Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark, Policy Brief 13, 2010.
[31] Office for Civil Rights, “Summary of the HIPAA privacy rule,” U.S.
Department of Health & Human Services, Washington, DC, OCR
Privacy Brief, May 2003.
[32] —, “Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European parliament and of the
council of 27 april 2016 on the protection of natural persons with regard
to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data,
and repealing directive 95/46/Ec (General Data Protection Regulation),”
European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, Official
Journal of the European Union L 119/1, 4 May 2016.
[33] Vidyo, “Saving lives, saving money: Why you need a virtual care center,”
Vidyo, Inc., Hackensack, NJ, Tech. Rep., 2018.
[34] ——, “Making telehealth work for you: The ultimate guide,” Vidyo,
Inc., Hackensack, NJ, Tech. Rep., 2018.
[35] B. Noah, M. S. Keller, S. Mosadeghi, L. Stein, S. Johl, S. Delshad,
V. C. Tashjian, D. Lew, J. T. Kwan, A. Jusufagic, and B. M. R. Spiegel,
266
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
“Impact of remote patient monitoring on clinical outcomes: an updated
meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials,” npj Digital Medicine,
vol. 1, no. 20172, 2018.
[36] D. Gračanin, R. B. Knapp, T. L. Martin, and S. Parker, “Smart virtual
care centers in the context of performance and privacy,” in Proceedings
of the 15th International Conference on Telecommunications (ConTEL),
3–5 Jul. 2019.
[37] G. Sprint, D. J. Cook, R. Fritz, and M. Schmitter-Edgecombe, “Using
smart homes to detect and analyze health events,” Computer, vol. 49,
no. 11, pp. 29–37, Nov. 2016.
[38] C. LeRouge, J. Ma, S. Sneha, and K. Tolle, “User profiles and personas
in the design and development of consumer health technologies,” Inter-
national Journal of Medical Informatics, vol. 82, no. 11, pp. e251–e268,
2013.
[39] F. Cicirelli, G. Fortino, A. Giordano, A. Guerrieri, G. Spezzano, and
A. Vinci, “On the design of smart homes: A framework for activity
recognition in home environment,” Journal of Medical Systems, vol. 40,
no. 9, pp. 1–17, Sep. 2016.
[40] P. Rashidi and D. J. Cook, “COM: A method for mining and monitoring
human activity patterns in home-based health monitoring systems,” ACM
Transactions on Intelligent Systems and Technology, vol. 4, no. 4, pp.
64:1–64:20, Oct. 2013.
[41] J. Doyle, E.-J. Hoogerwerf, J. Kuiper, E. Murphy, C. Hannigan, J. Dins-
more, T. van der Auwermeulen, J. Albert, A. Jacobs, L. Maluccelli,
L. Desideri, and V. Fiordelmondo, “Designing a proactive, person-
centred, digital integrated care system,” International Journal of Inte-
grated Care, vol. 17, no. 5, p. A211, 2017.
[42] ISO/TR, “Health informatics — interoperability of telehealth systems
and networks – part 1: Introduction and definitions,” International
Organization for Standardization, Standard ISO/TR 16056-1:2004, 2004.
[43] ——, “Health informatics — interoperability of telehealth systems and
networks – part 2: Real-time systems,” International Organization for
Standardization, Standard ISO/TR 16056-2:2004, 2004.
[44] ——, “Health informatics — security and privacy requirements of ehr
systems for use in conformity assessment,” International Organization
for Standardization, Standard ISO/TR 14441:2013, 2013.
[45] D. J. Solove, “A taxonomy of privacy,” University of Pennsylvania Law
Review, vol. 154, no. 3, pp. 477–560, Jan. 2006.
[46] A. J. Gill, A. Vasalou, C. Papoutsi, and A. N. Joinson, “Privacy
dictionary: A linguistic taxonomy of privacy for content analysis,” in
Proceedings of the 2011 Annual Conference on Human Factors in
Computing Systems (CHI ’11). New York: ACM, 2011, pp. 3227–
3236.
[47] P. J. Radics and D. Gračanin, “Privacy in domestic environments,” in
Proceedings of the 2011 Annual Conference Extended Abstracts on
Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA ’11). New York: ACM,
7–12 May 2011, pp. 1735–1740.
[48] P. J. Radics, D. Gracanin, and D. Kafura, “Preprocess before you
build: Introducing a framework for privacy requirements engineering,” in
Proceedings of the 2013 International Conference on Social Computing
(SocialCom), 8–14 Sep. 2013, pp. 564–569.
[49] S. Codio, D. Kafura, M. Pérez-Quinonez, A. Kavanaugh, and D. Gra-
canin, “Identifying critical factors of community privacy,” in Proceeding
of the 2012 Symposium On Usable Privacy and Security (PASSAT 2012).
IEEE, 3–5 Sep. 2012, pp. 666–675.
[50] D. Kafura, T. DeHart, M. Pérez-Quinonez, D. Gracanin, and A. Ka-
vanaugh, “Enhancing tools for community privacy,” in Proceeding of
the PETools: Workshop on Privacy Enhancing Tools, 9 Jul. 2013.
[51] J. Kolter, T. Kernchen, and G. Pernul, “Collaborative privacy manage-
ment,” Computers & Security, vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 580–591, 2010.
[52] S. D. Warren and L. D. Brandeis, “The right to privacy,” Harward Law
Review, vol. 4, no. 5, pp. 193–220, 15 Dec. 1890.
[53] A. F. Westin, Privacy and Freedom. New York: Atheneum, 1967.
[54] A. Hazeyama, H. Washizaki, N. Yoshioka, H. Kaiya, and T. Okubo, “Lit-
erature survey on technologies for developing privacy-aware software,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE 24th International Requirements Engineering
Conference Workshops (REW 2016), Sept 2016, pp. 86–91.
[55] V. Bellotti and A. Sellen, “Design for privacy in ubiquitous computing
environments,” in Proceedings of the third conference on European
Conference on Computer-Supported Cooperative Work. Norwell, MA:
Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1993, pp. 77–92.
[56] M. S. Ackerman, L. F. Cranor, and J. Reagle, “Privacy in e-commerce:
Examining user scenarios and privacy preferences,” in Proceedings of
the 1st ACM conference on Electronic commerce (EC ’99). New York:
ACM, 1999, pp. 1–8.
[57] Federal Trade Commission, “How to comply with the children’s online
privacy protection rule,” Federal Trade Commission, Direct Marketing
Association, Internet Alliance, Washington, DC 20580, A Guide, 20 Jun.
1999.
[58] P. Carayon, “Human factors of complex sociotechnical systems,” Applied
Ergonomics, vol. 37, no. 4, pp. 525–535, Jul. 2006.
[59] K. Mindermann, F. Riedel, A. Abdulkhaleq, C. Stach, and S. Wagner,
“Exploratory study of the privacy extension for system theoretic process
analysis (STPA-Priv) to elicit privacy risks in eHealth,” in Proceedings
of the 25th IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference
Workshops (REW 2017), Sep. 2017, pp. 90–96.
[60] H. Mora, D. Gil, R. M. Terol, and J. A. J. Szymanski, “An IoT-
based computational framework for healthcare monitoring in mobile
environments,” Symmetry, vol. 17, no. 10, p. 2301, Oct. 2017.
[61] S. A. Tovino, “The HIPAA privacy rule and the EU GDPR: Illustrative
comparisons,” Scholarly Works, no. 1066, 2017.
[62] Y. Yang, X. Zheng, W. Guo, X. Liu, and V. Chang, “Privacy-preserving
smart IoT-based healthcare big data storage and self-adaptive access
control system,” Information Sciences, vol. 479, pp. 567–592, 2019.
[63] J. Grossklags, N. Christin, and J. Chuang, “Secure or Insure? A Game-
Theoretic Analysis of Information Security Games,” in Proceedings of
the 17th ACM International Conference on World Wide Web, 2008, pp.
209–218.
[64] F. He, J. Zhuang, and N. S. V. Rao, “Game-Theoretic Analysis of Attack
and Defense in Cyber- Physical Network Infrastructures,” in Proceedings
of the Industrial and Systems Engineering Research Conference, 2012.
[65] M. H. Manshaei, Q. Zhu, T. Alpcan, T. Basar, and J.-P. Hubaux, “Game
Theory Meets Network Security and Privacy,” ACM Computing Surveys,
vol. 45, no. 3, pp. 25–39, 2013.
[66] H. Narasimhan, V. Varadarajan, and P. Rangan, “Towards a Cooperative
Defense Model Against Network Security Attacks,” in Proceedings of
the 9th Workshop on the Economics of Information Security, 2010.
[67] S. Shiva, S. Roy, and D. Dasgupta, “Game Theory for Cyber Security,”
in Proceedings of the 6th Annual Workdhop on Cyber Security and
Information Intelligence Research, 2010.
[68] S. Roy, C. Ellis, S. Shiva, D. Dasgupta, V. Shandilya, and Q. Wu, “A
Survey of Game Theory as Applied to Network Security,” in Proceedings
of the 43rd Hawaii International Conference on Systems Sciences, 2010.
[69] A. R. Sfar, Y. Challal, P. Moyal, and E. Natalizio, “A game theoretic
approach for privacy preserving model in IoT-based transportation,”
IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2019.
[70] M. Wooldrige and P. E. Dunne, “On the computational complexity of
qualitative coalitional games,” Artificial Intelligence, vol. 4, no. 158, pp.
28–73, Dec. 2004.
[71] R. Zhang, R. Xue, and L. Liu, “Security and privacy on blockchain,”
2019.
[72] A. Narayanan, J. Bonneau, E. Felten, A. Miller, and S. Goldfeder,
Bitcoin and cryptocurrency technologies: a comprehensive introduction.
Princeton University Press, 2016.
[73] N. Patel, P. Oza, and S. Agrawal, “Homomorphic cryptography and
its applications in various domains,” in International Conference on
Innovative Computing and Communications. Springer, 2019, pp. 269–
278.
[74] M. Eltoweissy, M. Azab, S. Olariu, and D. Gračanin, “A new paradigm
for a marketplace of services: Smart communities in the IoT era,” in
Proceedings of the 2019 International Conference on Innovation and
Intelligence for Informatics Computing, and Technologies (3ICT 2019),
22–23 Sep. 2019.
[75] National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, Making
Value for America: Embracing the Future of Manufacturing, Technology,
and Work. Washington, D.C.: National Academies Press, 2015.
267
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:15:28 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.