Enabling Massive IoT Toward 6G: A Comprehensive Survey
IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021 11891
Enabling Massive IoT Toward 6G:
A Comprehensive Survey
Fengxian Guo , F. Richard Yu , Fellow, IEEE, Heli Zhang , Xi Li , Member, IEEE,
Hong Ji , Senior Member, IEEE, and Victor C. M. Leung , Life Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Nowadays, many disruptive Internet-of-Things (IoT)
applications emerge, such as augmented/virtual reality online
games, autonomous driving, and smart everything, which are
massive in number, data intensive, computation intensive, and
delay sensitive. Due to the mismatch between the fifth gener-
ation (5G) and the requirements of such massive IoT-enabled
applications, there is a need for technological advancements
and evolutions for wireless communications and networking
toward the sixth-generation (6G) networks. 6G is expected to
deliver extended 5G capabilities at a very high level, such as
Tbps data rate, sub-ms latency, cm-level localization, and so
on, which will play a significant role in supporting massive IoT
devices to operate seamlessly with highly diverse service require-
ments. Motivated by the aforementioned facts, in this article,
we present a comprehensive survey on 6G-enabled massive IoT.
First, we present the drivers and requirements by summarizing
the emerging IoT-enabled applications and the corresponding
requirements, along with the limitations of 5G. Second, visions
of 6G are provided in terms of core technical requirements, use
cases, and trends. Third, a new network architecture provided by
6G to enable massive IoT is introduced, i.e., space–air–ground–
underwater/sea networks enhanced by edge computing. Fourth,
some breakthrough technologies, such as machine learning and
blockchain, in 6G are introduced, where the motivations, appli-
cations, and open issues of these technologies for massive IoT are
summarized. Finally, a use case of fully autonomous driving is
presented to show 6G supports massive IoT.
Index Terms—6G, blockchain, Internet of Things (IoT),
machine learning, space–air–ground–underwater networks.
I. INTRODUCTION
INSTEAD of only exchanges of voice, image, or video
in the fifth-generation (5G) mobile networks and the ear-
lier generations, researchers are exploring new forms of
Manuscript received October 26, 2020; revised February 6, 2021; accepted
February 16, 2021. Date of publication March 4, 2021; date of current
version July 23, 2021. This work was supported by the National Natural
Science Foundation of China under Grant 61771070. (Corresponding author:
Heli Zhang.)
Fengxian Guo, Heli Zhang, Xi Li, and Hong Ji are with the Key
Laboratory of Universal Wireless Communications, Ministry of Education,
Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications, Beijing 100876, China
(e-mail: fengxianguo@bupt.edu.cn; zhangheli@bupt.edu.cn;
lixi@bupt.edu.cn; jihong@bupt.edu.cn).
F. Richard Yu is with the Department Systems and Computer
Engineering, Carleton University, Ottawa, ON K1S 5B6, Canada (e-mail:
richard.yu@carleton.ca).
Victor C. M. Leung is with the College of Computer Science and Software
Engineering, Shenzhen University, Shenzhen 518060, China, and also with the
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the University of British
Columbia, Vancouver, BC V6T 1Z4, Canada (e-mail: vleung@ieee.org).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3063686
interactions in the future, including holographic commu-
nications, five-sense communications, and wireless brain–
computer interfaces (WBCI), which will lead to a true immer-
sion into a distant environment. At the same time, advances
in personal communications will promote the evolution of
smart verticals in the fifth-generation networks (5G) to a
higher level, including healthcare, remote education/training,
industry Internet, fully autonomous driving, and super smart
homes/cities. During this paradigm shift, the Internet of Things
(IoT) plays a vital role in enabling these emerging applications
by connecting the physical environment to the cyberspace of
communication systems [1].
Although these IoT-enabled applications will bring conve-
nience to human life, it is an extremely daunting task for 5G
to support these applications. First, these IoT-enabled appli-
cations require superior performances in terms of data rate,
latency, coverage, localization, and so on. Second, they are
more data intensive and computation intensive, which far
exceeds the range of ultrareliable low-latency communications
(uRLLC) and massive machine-type communication (mMTC)
of 5G [2]. Third, it is hard to efficiently manage massive IoT
devices in this case. Fourth, with massive data generated, seri-
ous security issues are accompanying [3]. With IoT evolving,
5G will gradually reach its limitations and be unable to pro-
vide support to most of these advanced applications, which
can be predicted from the history of previous generations. So
there is a strong motivation for the sixth-generation networks
(6G) to extend 5G capabilities to a higher level to enable
massive IoT.
Motivated by the aforementioned facts, the visions of 6G in
terms of requirements, use cases, and trends should be clearly
investigated first, since 6G is not defined yet. Then, to have
massive IoT deployed in 6G, the development with respect to
architecture, breakthrough technologies, and their challenges
should be known.
A. Visions of 6G
Inspired by the robust requirements of the future IoT-
enabled applications and the limitations of 5G, 6G, as an
evolutionary generation, will expand and upgrade based on
5G from every aspect, which revolutionizes not only human
life but also society. First, network performance of 6G will
upgrade to a superior level, e.g., higher data rate (up to Tbps),
lower latency (sub-ms), 3-D (3-D)-ubiquitous coverage (into
space, sea, and even the undersea), more accurate localization
(up to cm-level), more stringent privacy and security, and so
2327-4662 c© 2021 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-4764-3084
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1006-7594
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-5994-9419
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0466-1933
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-1640-2894
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-3529-2640
11892 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
on. Second, use cases in 6G will be more multitudinous and
complex, resulting in different and even conflicting require-
ments in different use cases. Third, several trends about 6G
have started to emerge, which are summarized as follows.
1) More bits and spectrum, and denser networks.
2) Convergence of various communication systems.
3) Convergence of communication, caching, computing,
control, sensing, and localization (4CSL).
4) From network softwarization to network
intelligentization.
5) From centralization to distribution.
As a result, 6G maintains the ability to connect millions of
devices and applications seamlessly with performance guar-
anteed. Thus, 6G plays a major role in supporting massive
interconnectivity in IoT with highly diverse service require-
ments. To enable massive IoT, 6G will provide a new network
architecture and breakthrough technologies to meet their
demands.
B. New Network Architectures for Massive IoT
With human activities expanding to the extreme environ-
ment, e.g., higher altitudes, outer space, oceans, and deep
under the sea, an ubiquitous (covering Earth, sea, sky, and
space), everything-connected (IoE), omniscient (with various
sensors), and omnipotent (4CSL) network should be built to
truly realize the connection anytime and anywhere with diverse
requirements. To achieve this goal, a four-tier network archi-
tecture enhanced by edge computing is provided by 6G, i.e.,
space–air–ground–underwater/sea networks.
The space tier contains various types of satellites, which
aims to provide Internet connections for some extreme envi-
ronment, e.g., rural areas, mountains, and so on. In this tier,
the very low Earth orbit (VLEO) satellites are promising to
provide high data rates, low round trip latency, and accurate
localization with the lowest orbit [4], [5]. The air tier con-
sists of UAVs, airships, and balloons, which are aerial mobile
systems to complement the terrestrial networks with its flex-
ibility. For example, UAVs could move closer proximity to
the ground IoT devices to collect data or acting as a com-
puting hub, achieving higher throughput rates and conserving
the energy of less-capable IoT devices [6], [7]. As the main
way to acquire services for most IoT-enabled applications, the
ground tier refers to the legacy wireless networks, e.g., cellu-
lar networks, wireless local area networks, VLC, and so on,
where terahertz communications are promising to achieve the
ambitious goals of 6G [8]. In the underwater/sea tier, opti-
cal communications play a vital role in providing Internet
services for distributed nodes over the broad or deep sea as
the water exhibits different propagation characteristics from
the land [9], [10].
For the IoT-enabled applications that require real-time oper-
ations and decentralized services, edge computing is regarded
as a key enabler [11], [12]. From the perspective of users’
level, edge computing directly helps IoT devices execute their
tasks, e.g., rendering for VR, decision making for autonomous
driving, and so on, which outperforms the centralized cloud
computing technology due to its distributed nature and low
latency. From the perspective of system, edge intelligence with
machine learning is enabled by edge computing to manage IoT
systems using an intelligent method.
C. Breakthrough Technologies
As an omnipotent network, 6G is enhanced by a number
of breakthrough technologies, including machine learning and
blockchain.
As one of the most powerful intelligence enabling tech-
nologies, machine learning has been widely used for different
aspects of the IoT-enabled applications, ranging from the
application layer and the network layer to the perception layer.
In the application layer, machine learning is widely used for
task offloading and resource allocation. In turn, edge comput-
ing in the application layer provides storage and computation
capability to enable edge intelligence. In the network layer,
network intelligentization and automation are the primary
goals of the IoT systems in 6G. Machine learning is recently
being adopted in wireless systems to address the related
challenges and to pave the way for future massive IoT com-
munications [13]–[15]. Toward the future IoT networking in
6G, machine learning algorithms are widely used for multiple
resource allocation, power allocation, transmit scheduling,
traffic offloading, and so on. In the perception layer, machine
learning is used for autonomous control for different IoT sce-
narios, e.g., movement control for autonomous robots (e.g.,
tactile Internet, smart factory, and remote surgery), driving aid
for autonomous driving, and intelligent management for smart
grid [16].
In addition to intelligence, another stirring premise promised
by 6G is distribution, which exactly hits the bullseye of
the future massive IoT systems. The current centralized IoT
network model, in which IoT devices use a single gate-
way to transfer data between them and connect through a
cloud server, is no longer suitable for the future massive
IoT devices and the volumes of data they share due to its
shortcomings, i.e., high costs of centralized cloud mainte-
nance and networking equipment, low interoperability due to
restricted data exchange with other centralized infrastructures,
and severe security issues due to the untrustworthy single
gateway and centralized cloud server. Blockchain, a decen-
tralized distributed ledger, is recently regarded as the key to
solve many of the problems faced with the current model
and improve security [17]–[19]. First, dynamic network man-
agement is enabled by blockchain with decentralization and
low cost. Second, with a unified authentication system in
blockchain, interoperability among different IoT systems is
improved. Third, data stored on various nodes eliminate the
single point of failure. Confidentiality, integrity, and authentic-
ity of the data are protected by immutability, anonymity, and
encryption of the blockchain [20], [21].
D. Review of Related Overview/Survey Articles
To the best of our knowledge, there is no detailed survey
paper dedicated to massive IoT enabled by 6G. Chettri and
Bera [22] presented a comprehensive survey on IoT toward
5G, while Akpakwu et al. [23] talked about 5G networks for
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11893
Fig. 1. Roadmap of this article.
IoT from the perspective of communication technologies and
challenges. Huang et al. [24] presented an overview of wireless
evolution toward green 6G networks, where new architectural
changes related to 6G and related potential technologies are
discussed. You et al. [25] discussed the visions and enabling
technologies of 6G thoroughly, which provided an insight-
ful picture of 6G. Focusing on breakthrough technologies
for IoT, Sharma and Wang [16] discussed the current issues
in ultradense cellular IoT networks and machine learning-
assisted solutions. Hussain et al. [26] provided a survey on
different aspects of resource management in cellular and IoT
networks that leverage machine learning techniques. Several
surveys [18], [19], [27] discussed blockchain for IoT from
different aspects. Although these works have laid a solid foun-
dation on 5G for IoT, 6G, and breakthrough technologies for
IoT, the future massive IoT-enabled applications and the role
of 6G for massive IoT have not been covered in the existing
surveys. To fill this gap, we investigate the future IoT-enabled
applications, visions of 6G, and the role of 6G for IoT in terms
of network architecture and breakthrough technologies.
E. Contributions
In this article, we present a comprehensive survey of
massive IoT enabled by 6G. We mainly identify four
aspects, on which we focus drivers and requirements, visions
of 6G, network architecture, and breakthrough technolo-
gies. The main contributions of this article are summarized
as follows.
1) Compared with the other survey papers related to this
topic, we provide a comprehensive survey on massive
IoT enabled by 6G, where the challenges of future
massive IoT are reviewed and the roles of 6G for mas-
sive IoT are presented from the perspectives of network
architecture and breakthrough technologies.
2) The visions of 6G are presented, including core tech-
nical requirements, use cases, and trends of 6G. The
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11894 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
technical requirements in terms of data rate, latency, etc.,
are summarized, along with use cases of 6G. Several
trends associated with 6G are presented, encompassing
more bits and spectrum, and denser networks, conver-
gence of various communication systems, convergence
of communication, caching, computing, control, sensing,
and localization (4CSL), from network softwarization
to network intelligentization, and from centralization to
distribution.
3) A new four-tier network architecture enhanced by edge
computing for massive IoT is reviewed. The promising
technologies in each tier are presented, including VLEO
satellites, UAVs, terahertz communications, VLC, and
optical communications.
4) The breakthrough technologies in 6G for massive IoT
are reviewed, e.g., machine learning and blockchain,
which provide intelligence and distribution, respectively.
The applications and open issues are also summarized.
F. Paper Organization
We structure this article in a manner shown in Fig. 1. We
begin by summarizing the motivations behind 6G, where the
IoT-enabled applications and corresponding requirements, lim-
itations of 5G, and necessities to develop 6G are presented
(Section II). It helps define the motivation and contributions
of this article. Since 6G is not defined yet, we provide its
visions in Section III, highlighting its technical requirements,
use cases, and trends. To achieve 6G visions and enable mas-
sive IoT, modifications to existing network architecture and
cloud computing technologies as well as the involvement of
breakthrough technologies are essential. We discuss the sup-
porting network architecture and breakthrough technologies, as
well as open issues in Sections IV and V, respectively, aiming
at helping researchers understand the roles of 6G. To show how
6G supports massive IoT, a use case of fully autonomous driv-
ing is presented in Section VI. Finally, this study is concluded
in Section VII.
II. DRIVERS
Nowadays, many IoT-enabled applications emerge, such
as holographic communications, five-sense communications,
WBCI, and new verticals. The IoT system is evolving toward
super massive in number and convergence of 4CSL, which
needs higher key performance indicators (KPI) and more com-
plex usage scenarios. As known, it is a rather daunting task for
5G to support this evolving IoT system due to its limitations.
In this section, we try to summarize the main drivers behind
6G by introducing the evolution of IoT, limitations of 5G, and
necessities to develop 6G.
A. Evolution of IoT
IoT in 5G is transforming and bringing industrial revolution
4.0 in every aspect of human life, including smart healthcare,
smart education/training, industry Internet, autonomous driv-
ing, smart homes, and cities. At the same time, people are
exploring new forms of IoT-enabled interactions in the future,
including holographic, five-sense, and even brain-computer
approaches, which will create new verticals in turn. All these
evolving IoT-enabled applications will propose more robust
requirements to the wireless communication networks. Next,
we aim to present the evolution of IoT by summarizing
emerging IoT-enabled applications and their requirements.
1) IoT-Enabled Applications and Corresponding
Requirements: Instead of only exchanges of voice, image,
or video in the earlier and current generations, people are
exploring new forms of IoT-enabled interactions in the future,
including holographic communications, five-sense commu-
nications, and WBCI, which can lead to a true immersion
into a distant environment. Powered by near-real-time and
true-immersive experiences in personal communication using
holograms and five senses and autonomously operating
machinery in the industry as new fundamental media-objects,
new verticals emerge, including smart healthcare, smart edu-
cation/training, industry Internet, fully autonomous driving,
and super smart city/home.
Holographic Communications: The first new form of inter-
actions refers to holographic communications, which is capa-
ble of projecting full-motion 3-D images in real time. This
technology captures images of people and/or objects, presents
in reality or at a remote location, and transmits these images
and related sounds to the receiver. In this way, it makes
objects or people along with the real-time audio information
present at a different location and appear right in front of the
users, resulting in a closer-to-reality experience than VR and
AR. Holographic type communications will have a big part
to play in the industry, agriculture, education, entertainment,
and in many other fields. Due to rich details to transmit, the
amount of data necessary to stream holographic media can
be very large even after compression, which calls for very
high throughput in the range of hundreds of gigabits per sec-
ond or even terabits per second to support such capabilities.
Besides, an additional ask from networks to provide reliabil-
ity and timeliness is required to eliminate any jitter since that
will immediately degrade interactive applications’ behaviors.
Concisely, the requirement of holographic communications is a
synergistic mix of URLLC and eMBB to guarantee low latency
and high data rates.
Five-Sense Communications: Despite tactile transmission
and traditional human interaction in terms of the exchange of
voice, images, and videos, researchers also state the trend of
new forms of remote human interactions [13], the so-called
immersive five-sense or five-dimension (5-D) communica-
tions. The five-sense media will integrate all human sense
information, including sight, hearing, touch, smell, and taste.
This technology detects sensations from the human body and
the environment and integrates sensations by using the neu-
rological process. Then, the information is transferred to the
receiver at a remote location, leading to a truer immersion
into a distant environment. Such multisensory applications
(e.g., a remote surgery), combined with VR/AR or holographic
communications, will constitute truly immersive services for
6G. It requires a joint design considering not only engi-
neering (i.e., wireless, computing, and storage) requirements
but also perceptual (e.g., human senses, cognition, and phys-
iology) requirements, which jointly determine the service
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11895
performance. In view of latency and data rate, the require-
ments of five-sense communications are a blend of traditional
uRLLC and eMBB with accurate localization ability, as well
as incorporated perceptual factors.
Wireless Brain–Computer Interfaces: Another potential
form of interactions refers to WBCI, also known as wire-
less mind-machine interfaces (WMMI), which are interfaces
that use human thoughts to interact with machines and/or the
environments [28]. This technology first reads the neural sig-
nals generated in the human’s mind with a certain number
of electrodes and then translates these acquired signals into
commands that a machine can understand [29], thus achiev-
ing control or other functions, e.g., turn on a light. WBCI is
a communication pathway between the brain and the exter-
nal peripheral devices, which is a promising approach to
control the appliances that are used daily in smart cities,
homes, and medical systems in a more simple and intelli-
gent way. Beyond healthcare and smart cities/home scenarios,
the recent advent of WBCI revolutionizes this field and intro-
duces new use case scenarios, ranging from brain-controlled
movies to fully fledged multibrain-controlled cinemas [30].
Coupled with tactile Internet or haptic communications and
related ideas, in which the functions of emotion-driven devices
can match the users’ mood, WBCI will constitute important
6G use cases [31]. WBCI requires high data rates, ultralow
latency, and high reliability, as well as powerful computation
capability, which is similar to VR/AR but much more sen-
sitive than VR/AR to physical perceptions and necessitates
Quality-of-Services (QoS) and Quality-of-Experience (QoE)
guarantees.
Smart Healthcare: 6G can help build smart healthcare
systems, where a reliable remote monitoring system, remote
diagnosis, remote guidance, and even remote surgery can be
facilitated by 6G. 6G with high data rate, low latency, accurate
localization, and ultra reliability will help to quickly and reli-
ably transport huge volumes of medical five-sense data, which
can improve both the access to care and the quality of care.
Cooperated with artificial intelligence (AI), the data can be
better analyzed by doctors to make accurate diagnoses. With
blockchain, personal data can be privately and safely shared
among the world to contribute to the development of medicine.
Smart Education/Training: Smart education/training will
benefit from 6G wireless systems because innovations,
e.g., holographic communications, five-sense communications,
high-quality VR/AR, mobile-edge computing, and AI, will
help build smart education/training systems. With the support
of the above techniques, it allows students to view structures
and models in 3-D form and even to be taught by a famous
teacher at a remote location, thus achieving interactive and
immersive online education. For training, by illustrating the
processes (live) in holography and interacting with objects or
other trainers, it helps learners retain more information, reduce
high costs, and avoid being in dangerous environments than
traditional training methods. 6G can also help build intelligent
classes, in which data are collected by sensors, and sent to the
clouds or edge clouds to be analyzed. Then, the results can
be used to improve the quality of education to better interact
with students.
Industry Internet: 6G will facilitate a variety of vertical
industries, e.g., electricity, manufacturing, delivery, and ports.
Based on AI, full automation will be provided by 6G with
its ultramassive connectivity capability and ultra reliability,
which means that automatic control of processes, devices, and
systems is enabled by 6G. By transmitting data to clouds
or edge clouds and analyzing the data, decisions are made
intelligently to achieve automatic manufacturing. In this pro-
cess, error-free data transfer is ensured by 6G. With the
help of VR/AR/holographic communications, remote main-
tenance can be enabled by 6G, in which experts in remote
locations and workers in present can work together timely
to solve problems, resulting in higher efficiency and lower
costs. Another service refers to remote control, which con-
trols machines remotely to ensure the safety of workers and
reduce costs. It requires rigorous low-latency, broadband, and
reliable transmission of 6G.
Fully Autonomous Driving: Equipped with multiple high-
definition cameras and high-precision radar sensors and sup-
ported by 6G, fully autonomous driving can be achieved,
which means that the vehicle performs all driving tasks
and there is not even a cockpit (opening up new mobil-
ity possibilities for people with disabilities, for example).
The core functions of autonomous driving include percep-
tion, planning, and control [32]. The information (including
the accurate vehicle location and target recognition) generated
by various sensors, e.g., image sensors or cameras, millimeter-
wave/terahertz radar, and light detection and ranging (LIDAR),
is as the input of the perception layer, which can be regarded
as the prerequisite to realize autonomous driving. The instruc-
tions of the planning layer include following, overtaking, and
accelerating, which depend on the input information, i.e., the
information from the perception layer and the feedback from
the control layer. The control layer is in charge of imple-
menting the specific control over the vehicles according to
the instructions issued by the planning layer, including throt-
tle, brake, and gear control. The key challenge to achieve
fully autonomous driving is how to meet the stringent safety
demands when faced with different driving conditions. With
the help of AI, MEC, and reliable and low-latency transmission
of 6G, the complex information can be handled in time by 6G.
Besides, the information can be shared safely with blockchain
to enhance the performance of autonomous driving.
Super Smart City/Home: The superior features of 6G will
lead to significant improvement of life quality, intelligent mon-
itoring, and automation to accelerate the building of super
smart cities and homes. A city is considered to be smart when
it can run intelligently and autonomously by collecting and
analyzing mass quantities of data from a wide variety of indus-
tries, from urban planning to garbage collection, which can
make better use of the public resources, increase the qual-
ity of the services offered to the citizens, as well as reduce
the operational costs of the public administrations. The use
of smart mobile devices, autonomous vehicles, and so on
will make the cities smarter in 6G. A smart home is not
only simply a residential or commercial building equipped
with Internet-connected smart devices to help people manage
and monitor a range of appliances and systems from mobile
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11896 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF APPLICATIONS IN 5G AND 6G
phones but also an intelligent entity with instantaneous and
distributive decision-making capabilities. Besides, people can
control light, heat, or multimedia entertainment by voice or
just mind (brain–computer interfaces, BCI) or leave them all
to AI, which can analyze your behaviors to make people’s
lives safer and easier. 6G will make smart home a reality. To
achieve smart city/home, it poses key challenges to the con-
nectivity and coverage capability of 6G, since there are so
many sensors and intelligent terminals.
2) Summary: 5G is the first generation that is specially
designed for vertical IoT use cases, including VR/AR, tactile
Internet, wearable devices, vehicle to everything, smart verti-
cals, and so on. As shown in Table I, each application of 5G
will evolve to be a part of 6G, which aims to boost every aspect
of human life. For example, holographic communications and
five-sense communications in 6G will bring a truer immersive
experience when compared with VR/AR and tactile Internet in
5G. Instead of vehicle to everything, fully autonomous driv-
ing will bring more convenience to human life. Furthermore,
6G will explore communications in space and deep sea rather
than focusing on the ground like 5G. Build upon the unique
creation of new interactions, new verticals emerge and IoT in
the future 6G will change a lot. The main differences of IoT
in 5G and 6G are described as follows.
Super Massive in Number: Owing to the aforementioned
applications, new device forms emerge. First, smartphones are
likely to be replaced with lightweight extended reality devices
(google glasses, for example) to deliver an unprecedented res-
olution, frame rates, and dynamic range. Second, wearable
displays, mobile robots and drones, and specialized processors
will be used for high-resolution imaging and sensing to make
holographic experience or telepresence a reality. Third, with
fully autonomous driving coming true in 6G, more vehicles
will be connected to the Internet for ecologically sustainable
transport and logistics. All these mobile devices embedded with
various sensing abilities (called sensors) will contribute to the
growth of IoT in volume. According to the new analysis from
IHS Markit, the number of connected IoT devices will jump
12% on average annually and reach 125 billion in 2030 from 27
billion in 2017. With this trend continuing, it can be predicted
that the number of IoT devices will be super massive in the
future 6G, which will far exceed what 5G promises to support.
More Intensive and Sensitive: IoT in future 6G will be more
data intensive, computation intensive, delay sensitive, and pri-
vacy/security sensitive. First, evolving from VR/AR, tactile
Internet, and wearable devices to holographic communications,
five-sense communications and WBCI brings a surge of big
volume of IoT data, which is generated in a nearly real-time
fashion. Second, in view of the quantum of IoT data, more
computation power will be needed for data processing and
analysis. Third, the aforementioned IoT-enabled applications
in 6G usually need more stringent latency requirements com-
pared with 5G. Fourth, with more data involved, the desire for
data security/privacy protection will be more strong.
From Communication, Caching, and Computing (3C) to
4CSL: For IoT, it is important to collect, store, query, under-
stand, and utilize the raw sensor data. In 5G, a number of
works studied the convergence of communication, caching,
and computing in the case of edge computing [33], which
can be used for data transmission, storage, and processing.
However, it is not sufficient for IoT in 6G. For example,
fully autonomous driving, which is context aware, needs to
exploit the localization and sensing information to construct
the environment accurately. Simultaneous localization and
mapping methods are required to enable holographic commu-
nications or enhance the navigation of autonomous vehicles
and drones. Remote control with ultrareliability is the key for
industrial Internet and five-sense communications. Hence, the
convergence of 4CSL is necessary for IoT in 6G.
B. Limitations of 5G
The limitations of 5G come from not only its architecture
but also its technologies, both resulting in a mismatch between
its capabilities and the requirements of all aforementioned IoT-
enabled applications. The limitations of 5G will be described
in detail as follows.
1) The first limitation lies in the best performance that 5G
could provide in terms of data rate and latency. From
the perspective of data rate, a peak data rate of 20 Gb/s
and an experienced data rate of 100 Mb/s are touted,
which indeed sounds fantastic. But this projection over-
looks the critical fact that the capacity must be shared
among multiple users and assumes unrealistic conditions
that result in a condition that actual throughput capacity
for wireless users is often only 15% of the peak data
connection rate. In addition, the required data rate of an
ideal VR user could reach several Gb/s and even Tb/s,
and it is far away from meeting the requirement of high-
quality VR for 5G. From the perspective of latency, a
latency of 1 ms is promised by 5G. However, latency
of less than 1 ms is needed for many IoT-enabled appli-
cations, e.g., fully autonomous driving, tactile Internet,
and remote control.
2) The second limitation comes from the supporting service
classes of 5G, i.e., eMBB, mMTC, and uRLLC. mMTC
and uRLLC are designed for IoT. uRLLC supports low-
latency transmissions with very high reliability for small
payloads from a limited amount of user devices, which
are active according to patterns typically triggered by
outside events (e.g., alarms). While mMTC aims to
connect a massive number of IoT devices, which are
with small data payloads and only sporadically active.
However, most of the future IoT-enabled applications
are data intensive, computation intensive, and delay sen-
sitive, e.g., augmented/virtual reality (AR/VR) online
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11897
games, which exceed the range of any of these three
typical scenarios. Obviously, 5G will not be able to sup-
port such scenarios that combine any two classes or a
synergistic mix of all three classes. For example, the
requirements of five-sense communications are a blend
of traditional uRLLC and eMBB.
3) The third limitation of 5G refers to its connection capa-
bility, which aims to connect everything (i.e., the Internet
of everything, IoE). With technologies developing,
humans are exploring mountains, seas, and even space,
where communications should follow. Besides commu-
nications for human, IoT devices will vastly expand
the geographic space for communication access, includ-
ing deploying unmanned detectors deep into the Earth,
sea, and space, UAVs at median altitude, autonomous
robots that penetrate into harsh environments, and smart
machines that are controlled remotely. However, 5G,
including the earlier generations, focuses on communi-
cations over the surface, which ignore the activities in
these extreme environments. So 5G is far away from
connecting everything and ubiquitous connectivity is
desired with time going on.
4) The fourth limitation of 5G is related to its coverage in
rural areas. People in rural areas are by far the most
underserved population when it comes to broadband
access. Let alone for IoT. In 2018, the federal communi-
cations commission (FCC) found that 98% of Americans
in urban areas had access to a broadband connection, yet
only 69% of rural Americans do [34], which is nowhere
near fast enough to be useful for most modern appli-
cations. In 5G, rural areas will not be left out, but it
will be different there. The multi-Gb/s speeds and mas-
sive capacity of 5G is an urban phenomenon to a great
extent, achieved by the huge bandwidths of mmWave
spectrum, which does not travel very far, resulting in
ultradense small cells. Considering the profitability, rural
areas will get a form of 5G called “low-band” or “sub-6”
5G, which will have less capacity. Thus, how to provide
IoT-enabled services for the last 4 billion people with
broadband services in rural areas still remains unsolved
in 5G, which is what rural residents probably most want
and are most frustrated.
5) The fifth limitation is the new KPI arising from emerg-
ing applications, including privacy and security. With the
capabilities promised by 5G, nearly all aspects of human
life will be connected to communication networks, but
it also provides a fertile hunting ground for criminals
who are able to access the communication between a
device and a network in order to intercept conversations
or steal data [35]. The need for robust security mecha-
nisms is underscored across all network segments of 5G.
However, the research from the University of Dundee
and so on found that while data protection in 5G has
improved on that offered in the 3G and 4G versions, crit-
ical security gaps still exist [36]. For 6G, this problem
will keep exacerbating, since so many sensors, which
are used in IoT-enabled applications, such as health-
care, remote education, smart homes, and autonomous
driving, will be involved in 6G. Hence, how to ensure
privacy and security is a key challenge in the future.
C. Necessities to Start the Study on 6G
Besides the above drivers, we provide the following neces-
sities of 6G.
Ten-Year Rule: A new mobile generation has appeared
approximately every 10 years since the first 1G system was
introduced since 1982 and it needs at least ten years from
definition to commercial deployment, which means that when
the previous generation enters the commercial phase, the con-
cept and technology research of the next generation begins.
Assuming that this trend continues, 6G will be a reality around
2030. With 5G rolling out across the world, it is the perfect
time to start to study 6G.
Catfish Effect: Unlike previous generations of mobile com-
munication systems, 5G is also targeted at IoT/vertical industry
application scenarios. With 5G networks scaling, especially in
the middle and late stages of 5G, more vertical industry mem-
bers will surely participate in the 5G ecosystem. Compared
with the current conditions that are dominated by traditional
operators, the in-depth participation of emerging enterprises
(especially Internet companies with innovative thinking) in the
future will have a huge impact on the traditional communica-
tions industry, which is even revolutionary.
Exploding Potentials of Emerging Applications: Just as the
emergence of smartphones that stimulates the development of
3G and triggers the demand to deploy 4G, it is believed that
IoT business will also stimulate 5G at some point in the 5G
era [15], and then further stimulate the demand for future 6G
networks. To have enough imagination, it needs us to prepare
for possible future networks and lay the technical foundation
in advance.
III. VISIONS OF 6G: CORE REQUIREMENTS, USE CASES,
AND TRENDS
6G envisions a data-driven society, which is enabled by
near instant and unlimited connectivity to anything, ranging
from tiny static sensors to autonomous objects, from anywhere,
including the rural areas, mountains, and seas, and anytime.
With 6G not defined, this section introduces the core technical
requirements along with the use cases of 6G, followed by the
arising trends of 6G.
A. Core Requirements and 6G Scenarios
With technologies developing and time going on, the current
support scenarios will not be able to support the applications in
the future, as stated in the limitations of 5G. Hence, new tech-
nical requirements will be imposed and new service classes
should be supported in the future. In this section, core tech-
nical requirements will be introduced and new service classes
will be defined.
1) Core Technical Requirements:
1) Peak Data Rate: Peak data rate is one of the key techni-
cal indicators that has been pursued since 1G. Without
a doubt, 6G will further enhance the achieved peak data
rate, which is expected to reach up to Tb/s [15], [31].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11898 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
First, it can be predicted from the history of peak data
rate improvement from 1G to 5G. Second, the demands
of big data transmission for intelligence and emerging
applications (e.g., high-quality VR/AR and holographic
communications) will far exceed the current wireless
applications.
2) Sub-ms end-to-end Latency: Low latency is pivotal to
many wireless applications. For example, it makes the
users feel dizzy with a latency of more than 20 ms for
VR/AR users. 20 us ∼ 10 ms is required for machine-
to-machine communications (M2M). For remote surgery
or other remote control in most of the industrial use
cases (e.g., industrial IoT and IIoT), a higher require-
ment in terms of latency is proposed [37], e.g., one
submillisecond.
3) Higher Energy Efficiency: The energy consumption of
mobile networks has become an ignorable problem
around the world [38], which will not only generate a
huge amount of carbon emissions that is harmful to the
environment but also accounts for a considerable part of
the operating expenses. First, with ultralarge throughput,
ultrabroad bandwidth, and ultramassive ubiquitous wire-
less access points (APs), 6G will bring unprecedented
huge challenges to energy consumption. Second, vari-
ous sensors will be ubiquitous in human’s life, which
need bulky energy to operate and manage these sensor
networks. Hence, green communication is particularly
urgent for 6G, e.g., energy efficiency of 10–100 times
(in J/bit) [39].
4) Accurate Localization: First, to determine the location
of the mobile terminals in a cellular system is mainly in
the case of an emergency call, which is also the demand
of governmental institutions. Second, the location of
the mobile device can be exploited for commercial
services to obtain revenue, e.g., the so-called location-
based services. Examples of such services include nav-
igation, mapping, asset tracking, geo-marketing and
advertising, social networking, location-sensitive billing,
AR, etc. Third, the location information can be also
used for network optimization to improve network
efficiency and communication capacity. Examples are
network management, resource management for device
to device (D2D) communications, intelligent transporta-
tion systems, radio reconfigurable spectrum, vehicu-
lar ad hoc networks, etc., [40]. Fourth, new applica-
tions, e.g., autonomous driving, autonomous factory, and
remote surgery, which involve complicated operations,
pose a stringent localization requirement to 6G to ensure
the safety of users and protect the values and peo-
ple, both indoors and outdoors, which can reach up to
the level of several centimeters for indoor localization
and 1 m for outdoor localization. Hence, more accurate
localization capability is required in 6G.
5) High Reliability: Many applications with remote con-
trol functions are emerging, such as autonomous driv-
ing, autonomous factory, and tactile Internet, which all
require high reliability to ensure safety. The reliability
requirements of different 6G applications are predicted
to be dependent, the most extreme case of which can be
one billion bits transmission with only one-bit error and
a delay of 0.1 ms.
6) Full Coverage: With the advancement of science and
technology, human activities are further expanded to the
extreme environment, e.g., higher altitudes, outer space,
oceans, and deep under the sea. Communication nodes,
especially the IoT devices, will spread over a wider
area, which is inseparable from human social activi-
ties. As a result, an ubiquitous (covering Earth, sea,
sky, and space), everything-connected (IoE), omniscient
(with various sensors), and omnipotent (based on big
data and deep learning) network should be built to truly
realize the connection anytime and anywhere. The ulti-
mate goal of mobile communications is the provision of
ubiquitous super connectivity on the global scale [41],
i.e., anywhere on Earth, outside or inside buildings, pros-
perous cities, or remote rural areas. Hence, full coverage
should be provided by 6G.
7) Privacy and Security: Individuals should have the
rights to choose under what conditions his/her per-
sonal information can be accessible by others. However,
privacy violations occur sometimes, e.g., unapproved
auxiliary utilization and unauthorized gathering of indi-
vidual data and unauthorized access of securely stored
individual data. With new applications emerging (e.g.,
autonomous driving, healthcare) and technologies matur-
ing (e.g., cloud and MEC), there will involve more
personal information in the future wireless networks,
which must be protected. Therefore, an extra level of
privacy and security should be provided by 6G networks
compared to the current 5G and the earlier generation
of networks.
8) Programmable Service to Deal With Different
Requirements: With the breakthrough and development
of new technologies, new business and scenarios
are spawned and users’ demands will tend to be
more diversified and personalized. Hence, on-demand
services should be provided by future 6G networks,
which are designed to meet the individual needs of
users and provide users with extreme experiences.
Dynamic and extremely fine-grained services should
be enabled, which enable users with different service
types, service levels, and free combinations of different
services according to their demands. Considering
this, to provide the end-users with tools allowing the
individuals to configure/program personal services is a
promising solution.
B. 6G Use Cases
Beyond imposing new performance metrics (e.g., techni-
cal requirements), the new technological trends will introduce
new use cases, i.e., service classes, to redefine the applica-
tion types by morphing classical eMBB, uRLLC, and mMTC,
which depend on only one single constraint. Though differ-
ent researchers have different opinions on classification, what
is commonly agreed with is that the classification should be
based on the requirements of different applications. Following
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11899
this common rule, several novel forward-looking scenarios,
i.e., service classes, are defined in [31], [39], and [42].
Saad et al. [31] defined four service classes: 1) mobile
broadband reliable low latency communication (MBRLLC);
2) massive URLLC (mURLLC); 3) human-centric service
(HCS); and 4) multipurpose communications, computing,
control, localization, and sensing (3CLS) and energy ser-
vice (MPS). MBRLLC provides services that require any
performance within the rate-reliability-latency space, which
merges eMBB and uRLLC. Examples of applications are
AR/VR and WBCI. mURLLC scales classical uRLLC across
the device dimension that generalizes 5G uRLLC with legacy
mMTC, which brings forth a tradeoff among reliability,
latency, and scalability. Examples of mURLLC are classical
IoT, blockchain, and autonomous robots. HCS is tightly cou-
pled with humans, the performance of which depends largely
on the physiology of the human users and their actions rather
than raw rate-reliability-latency metrics. Typical application
refers to WBCI. MPS aims to provide 3CLS services includ-
ing their derivatives, and can also offer energy to tiny devices
via wireless energy transfer, which is important to the appli-
cations, such as telemedicine, special cases of AR/VR, and
connected robotics and autonomous systems.
Zhang et al. [39] introduced five service classes, including
further eMBB (FeMBB) to provide higher data rate, extremely
URLLC (eURLLC) to meet the demand of lower latency,
ultra mMTC (umMTC) to further scales the device amount,
long-distance and high-mobility communications (LDHMC) to
support deep-sea sightseeing and space travel, and extremely
low-power communications (ELPC) to enable e-health and
nanorobots.
In the opinions of Zong et al. [42], revolved core require-
ments for 6G will lead to ubiquitous mobile ultrabroadband
(uMUB), ultrahigh data density (uHDD), and ultrahigh-speed-
with-low-latency communications (uHSLLC). uMUB aims to
provide ultrahigh data rate and ultralow latency ubiquitously
by integrating space and terrestrial networks. uHDD requires
huge wireless capacity and high reliability, while uHSLLC
aims at ultrahigh rates and ultralow latency.
It is worth noting that the above definitions are quite differ-
ent and not considerate, since the affiliation of one application
may be confusing based on the above definitions. In summary,
novel service classes aim to provide compound services, which
depend on more than one single constraint and, more impor-
tantly, are with varying granularities [43], as well as to support
new functions, such as localization, mapping, computing, pri-
vacy, and so on. What is concrete is that 6G will provide more
complex and heterogeneous services than ever before.
C. Trends of 6G
The applications above, limitations of 5G, and the develop-
ment of new technologies will lead to new system-wide trends,
which will be discussed in the following.
More Bits and Spectrum, and Denser Networks: Fig. 2
presents the evolution of wireless technologies. From the his-
tory of mobile communications from 1G to 5G, it shows the
trend of pursuing higher data rates. This trend will continue in
6G. As discussed above, most of the driving applications of 6G
Fig. 2. Evolution of wireless technologies.
require much higher data rates than 5G, and a 1000× increase
in data rate should be delivered by 6G to cater to these appli-
cations, such as holographic communications and WBCI [31].
To support these extremely high data rate requirements in 6G,
new spectral bands will be explored [44]. In this context, the
terahertz spectrum (0.1–10 THz) has been envisioned as a key
technology to fulfill this requirement [45], [46], as well as the
visible light spectrum (430–790 THz) and unlicensed spectrum
(e.g., 2.4 GHz/5–7 GHz/57–71 GHz). It is worth noted that the
handsets will combine more modes of operation from multiple
frequencies in addition to cellular, WiFi, and Bluetooth [47].
Providing a massive amount of available bandwidth up to sev-
eral THz (three orders of magnitude higher than unregulated
regions at mmWave frequencies), terahertz spectrum has the
potential to provide several Tbps data rates. By using the ter-
ahertz spectrum, the communication range of which is limited
to 50 m [48], an unprecedented level of network densifica-
tion, and base stations (BSs) miniaturized and embedded all
around us will be needed [49]. At the same time, hundreds
of simultaneous beams will be a part of 6G, which helps
yield much higher data rates. In addition, the licensed spec-
trum, unlicensed spectrum, and VLC will play crucial roles in
achieving the ultrahigh data rate.
Convergence of Various Communication Systems: In the ear-
lier generations of mobile communications, researchers have
tried to integrate the satellite networks with the terrestrial wire-
less networks [50], as well as in 5G [51], though it was never
integrated into cellular handsets [47] due to a series of compli-
cations in terms of technical and political challenges. In 6G,
this trend will continue, which will extend to a convergence
of various communication systems, focusing not only on ter-
restrial wireless networks but also on airborne communication
networks [52]. Airborne communication networks are engi-
neered to utilize various aircraft, including satellites, airships,
and balloons on high-altitude platforms, and UAVs on low-
altitude platforms [52], while a terrestrial wireless network is
a typical heterogeneous wireless network comprised of macro-
cells, microcells, picocells, or femtocells, WiFi, VLC APs, and
even D2D devices. In this converged system, each communi-
cation technology maintains its advantages and disadvantages,
which could compensate each other to improve the system
performance, e.g., coverage.
Convergence of Communications, Caching, Computing,
Control, Sensing, and Localization (4CSL): As stated by
Saad et al. [31], the past four generations of cellular systems
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11900 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
maintained one exclusive function: wireless communications.
When it comes to 5G, more functions are involved, e.g.,
caching and computing. It is believed that 6G will completely
disrupt this premise through a convergence of diverse func-
tions, including communications, caching, computing, sensing,
control, and localization. The drivers behind this convergence
mainly refer to the inherent features, e.g., tracking, control,
localization, and computing, of applications, such as AR,
autonomous driving, and smart homes. Hence, 6G is envi-
sioned to be a multipurpose system that could deliver multiple
4CSL services and functions. Especially, sensing and localiza-
tion services will enable 6G systems to provide users with a
3-D mapping of the radio and physical environments. Hence,
to tightly integrate and manage 4CSL functions is vital to 6G,
and it will be enabled by the evolutions pertaining to previous
trends.
From Network Softwarization to Network Intelligentization:
It is envisioned that 6G will take network softwarization
toward network intelligentization, i.e., a new level of soft-
warization [53]. In 5G, two key technologies, SDN and NFV,
have shifted modern communication networks to software-
based virtual networks, which is enabled by network slicing to
create multiple virtual networks atop a shared physical infras-
tructure to meet the diverse and heterogeneous requirements.
In 6G, diverse capabilities, such as communication, caching,
computing, and even energy harvesting, should be supported
by the network entities to support the AI-based applications.
More advent IoT functionalities, including sensing, control,
localization, data collection and analytics, caching, and com-
puting, should be supported by 6G. Furthermore, intelligent
surfaces and terahertz communications will be embraced in
6G. All these contribute to a more complex and heterogeneous
future network, which calls for a flexible, adaptive, and more
importantly, intelligent architecture. As a result, softwarization
is not going to be sufficient for 6G, which needs to be fur-
ther improved to meet these challenges. Recent successes have
motivated AI to form part of 5G. However, the combination of
AI and 5G only scratch the surface and is only expected to be
operated in isolated areas, which involve powerful computing
facility and massive training data. It is envisioned that a part
of 5G will realize some form of AI and AI will become one
of the core components in 6G [54], from the application layer
to the physical layer, i.e., ubiquitous intelligence.
From Centralization to Distribution: A trend from central-
ization to distribution has arisen in 6G, from the architecture to
technologies. In 5G, the weakness of the centralized architec-
ture and management mechanisms has been initially revealed,
an example of which is the proposal of distributed SDN,
MEC, and edge caching to meet the increasing complexity.
Besides the complexity, the drivers behind the distribution
of 6G are omnifarious, including the development of IoT
applications, the increasing amount of users, and the intro-
duction of AI and blockchain. In 6G, various functionalities,
e.g., communication, caching, computing, sensing, localiza-
tion, and so on, are integrated, and the networks tend to be
more complex and heterogeneous, especially with the increase
of mobile users. To operate and manage huge networks with
stringent requirements and limited resources, fully distributed
management mechanisms are desired. With emerging IoT appli-
cations containing personal information and the popularity of
cloud services, future wireless networks are generating and
carrying massive data. In view of privacy, the data are usu-
ally stored on mobile devices, which needs distributed training
when applying AI [55], i.e., distributed computing and intel-
ligence. A new mechanism is needed to enable the sharing
of a large amount of information without jeopardizing users’
privacy, which is also required to be distributed due to the
complexity. A promising solution refers to blockchain, which
could enable safe data sharing with its nature of distribution
and immutability. In addition, FCC states that blockchain can
help remake spectrum access, which reboots the old binary
system of licensed or unlicensed airwaves [49], thus improv-
ing spectral efficiency. Besides spectrum, blockchain can be
also used for resource management in terms of computing,
caching, and so on.
D. Full Picture of 6G
A schematic diagram of future 6G wireless systems is
shown in Fig. 3, which includes applications, services, archi-
tecture, and management. As shown in this figure, the appli-
cations and services encompass every aspect of human life
and society, which are both human centric and machine cen-
tric. It provides more ways, such as through gestures, voices,
and minds, for communicating and interacting with mobile
users and intelligent devices [39], and the interaction forms are
diverse, such as hologram videos and five senses. As a result,
immersive experiences and super smart verticals based on IoT
will be supported by 6G. For the network architecture, 6G
is envisioned to incorporate multiple innovative technologies,
such as space–air–ground-underwater/sea networks and cloud
technologies. First, the integration of space, air, ground, and
underwater/sea networks will constitute a large-dimensional
6G network, which will provide ubiquitous and unlimited
connectivity. By adding terahertz spectrum, visible light spec-
trum, and unlicensed one, full spectra will be featured by this
network architecture. To make full use of full spectra, mas-
sive MIMO, full duplex, and beamforming are necessary to
achieve high network capacity and data rates, which need to
be adjusted and upgraded of course. Especially, the usage of
terahertz spectrum will lead 6G to be even denser. For network
management, facing with more types of terminals and network
devices, more complex and diverse business types, and more
complex and huge networks, intelligence and distribution are
needed by incorporating machine learning, blockchain, and
SDN/NFV.
6G vision can be summarized into immersive connec-
tivity, ubiquitous connectivity, intelligent connectivity, and
distributed connectivity, which constitute the overall vision of
6G, “Wherever you think, everything follows your heart” [15].
In summary, 6G will be the first generation that fully achieves
the digital transformation of societies by providing ubiquitous,
near-instant, ultrareliable, and secure wireless connectivity for
both humans and machines. The incorporation of innova-
tive technologies, such as space–air–ground–underwater/sea
networks, machine learning, blockchain, and so on, will make
it multidimensional, human intelligent, and fully distributed.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11901
Fig. 3. Schematic diagram of future 6G wireless systems.
IV. NETWORK ARCHITECTURE FOR 6G-ENABLED
MASSIVE IOT: SPACE–AIR–GROUND–UNDERWATER
NETWORK WITH EDGE COMPUTING
In this section, we first introduce the space–air–ground–
underwater/sea network and edge computing. Then, the overall
network architecture is described by explaining how this
network architecture can support the massive IoT in 6G.
Finally, we discuss some open issues faced by the system
design.
A. Space–Air–Ground–Underwater/Sea Networks
A space–air–ground–underwater/sea network is a large-
dimensional network, which consists of four tiers, i.e., a
space-network tier formed by various satellites, an air-network
tier constituted by various flying BSs (e.g., high-altitude plat-
forms, mobile airborne cells, UAVs, and so on), a terrestrial-
network tier consisting of all kinds of legacy BSs, and an
underwater-network tier, including underwater hubs, ships, and
so on.
1) Space Tier-Massive VLEO Satellites: The space tier is
composed of all kinds of satellites, constellations, and their
corresponding terrestrial infrastructures (e.g., ground stations).
These satellites are deployed at different orbits and maintain
different characteristics, which can be classified into four cat-
egories based on the altitude, i.e., geostationary Earth orbit
(GEO), medium Earth orbit (MEO), low Earth orbit (LEO),
and VLEO satellites [56]. Among these four kinds of satel-
lites, VLEO satellites are promising to provide high-rate data
services and accurate localization due to the lowest orbit.
Considering the outstanding performance in terms of
extremely low round trip latency and low cost of VLEO satel-
lites, this technology attracts the attention of academia and
industry in the future wireless communications [57], [58]. The
ongoing VLEO constellation projects, e.g., SpaceX [58] and
OneWeb [59], plan to launch over thousands of VLEO satel-
lites over the Earth, aiming to construct a massive VLEO
constellation and cooperate with the traditional terrestrial
operators to support seamless and high-capacity communi-
cation services. In the future 6G, massive VLEO satellites
will be deployed in the sky to provide both diverse geo-
graphic coverage and enough capacity to support a wide range
of broadband communication services for residential, com-
mercial, institutional, governmental, and professional clients
globally [60].
2) Air Tier-UAVs: The air tier consists of UAVs, airships,
and balloons, which is an aerial mobile system to complement
the terrestrial networks by providing broadband wireless com-
munications. Compared with terrestrial networks, it has the
advantages of low cost, flexibility, easy deployment, large cov-
erage, and no infrastructure required to offer wireless access
services on a regional basis. Among these carriers, UAVs
attract the focus of academic and industry due to its salient
attributes of strong line-of-sight (LOS) connection links, and
additional design degrees of freedom with the controlled
mobility [61].
UAVs originated mostly in military applications. In recent
years, the use of UAVs has quickly expanded into commu-
nication, commercial, scientific, recreational, agricultural, and
other domains, the applications of which include acting as a
relay, broadcasting, cargo transport, weather control, forest fire
recognition, traffic detection, emergency search, and rescue.
To deploy UAVs in wireless communication networks, it offers
cost-effective services with no or limited infrastructure, which,
as a relay, can extend the coverage of the traditional cellular
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11902 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
networks. UAVs can be considered as a substitute to a wireless
recovery network in cases of terrestrial disruption. Compared
with satellite communications, UAV communications are more
cost effective and provide lower latency and better signal-
to-noise ratio [62]. In addition, the feature of UAVs, i.e.,
short-range LOS, provides better communication channels and
mobility provides flexibility in deployment. Thanks to these
advantages, many wireless applications for UAVs have been
proposed, such as mobile relays, cache in the air, mobile
computing cloudlets, and so on.
3) Ground Tier-Terahertz Communications and VLC: The
ground tier refers to the legacy wireless networks, e.g., cellular
networks, wireless local area networks, VLC, and so on, which
is still the main way to acquire services for most IoT-enabled
applications. 6G will be enhanced with higher spectrum bands
(e.g., mmWave and terahertz bands), better modulation and
channel coding, and new spectrum utilization (e.g., flexible
spectrum sharing technology) to improve its system capacity.
Terahertz communications use the terahertz electromag-
netic spectrum that lies in the boundary region between radio
frequency (RF) and optical frequency, which is envisioned
as a key technology to enable real-time applications for 6G
by alleviating the spectrum scarcity and capacity limitations
of current wireless systems [13], [45], [46]. Compared with
mmWave communications, terahertz communication maintains
a wider bandwidth, which induces various inspiring advan-
tages. First, it has the potential to support unprecedented
data rates from tens of Gb/s to several Tbps than mmWave
communications, which can enable innovative applications for
diverse scenarios. Second, it is easy to track beams for indoor
wireless communications, which will enormously affect the
mobility of the wireless communication systems. Third, the
reflection paths can be utilized by terahertz communication
systems to enhance link gains, especially for indoor appli-
cations. Fourth, thanks to the short transmission range of
terahertz communications, interference in terahertz band-based
networks can be substantially cut down with highly direc-
tional beams, resulting in terahertz band-based networks to
be noise limited rather than interference limited, which fur-
ther increases the performance. Fifth, extremely directional
beams narrow beams can be used to partially secure the data
at the physical layer in addition to extending the communi-
cation range [63]. As a result, more antenna elements (i.e.,
massive multiple-input and multiple-output, MIMO) can be
packed at terahertz frequencies than at microwave (including
mmWave), the formed beams of which can be narrower. It
further facilitates the development of other applications, e.g.,
detection radars. Due to the short transmission range of ter-
ahertz communications, 6G envisions an ultradense network
than ever before, which could further enhance the connectivity
capacity and data rates of 6G. In summary, all these inspiring
advantages make it ideal for transmission among IoT devices.
Another attractive technology for indoor IoT transmissions
refers to VLC. VLC, a class of optical wireless communi-
cations, can be utilized as one of the promising alternative
methods to the existing RF-based wireless communications,
especially for indoor communications [64]. VLC can use
the existing illuminating devices for communication purposes,
which uses the visible light (430–790 THz) as a carrier for
the data, and offers a 1000 times greater bandwidth com-
pared to the RF communications [65]. The communication
through visible light holds special advantages when compared
to the other existing forms of wireless communications, such
as several tens of Gb/s data rate [66], cost efficiency [67],
security [65], and large geographical distribution [65]. The
high data rates, ease of availability, and low cost of VLC
make it a relevant wireless communication technology and
a possible complementary technology that would cater to all
kinds of future applications [68]. As a consequence, it has
been widely considered as an enabling technology of 6G [13],
[24], [39], which can be used for indoor positioning, human–
computer interface (HCI), vehicular communications, and even
underwater communications.
4) Underwater/Sea Tier-Optical Communications: The
underwater tier aims to provide Internet services for distributed
nodes over the broad or deep sea, including seabed sensors,
relay buoys, autonomous underwater vehicles, and remotely
operated underwater vehicles. All these nodes collaborate with
each other to fulfill sensing, processing, and communication
tasks for environmental monitoring, disaster precaution, off-
shore exploration, and military operations [9]. Compared with
the acoustic and RF methods, optical communications, which
employ optical waves as the transmission carrier, could pro-
vide the highest transmission data rate, lowest link delay,
and lowest implementation costs for bidirectional underwater
communications [10] due to water exhibiting different propa-
gation characteristics from the land. Especially, VLC has been
proven the possibility for underwater communications [69] by
employing a single-photon avalanche diode for transmission in
pure seawater, which maintains high data rate and low power
consumption [70].
B. Edge Computing
As a dynamic global network infrastructure with self-
configuring capabilities, IoT makes all things communicate
with each other based on standard and interoperable commu-
nication protocols and realize information sharing and decision
making [71], which involves data acquisition, exchange, and
analysis. In addition to data analysis, edge computing plays a
pivotal role in supporting massive computation-intensive IoT-
enabled applications. First, these applications propose more
robust requirements in terms of computation power, such as
holographic communications, high-precision VR, autonomous
driving, smart factory, and so on. Second, the caching power
of edge computing could help further relieve the heavy bur-
den caused by massive data uploaded to the cloud [72]. Third,
edge intelligence can be enabled by edge computing, which is
expected to provide intelligent services at the network edge,
such as training machine learning models for decision making
and analyzing big data generated by massive IoT devices at
the network edge. In summary, the introduction of edge com-
puting can significantly reduce the latency, save bandwidth
resources, and protect privacy to some extent.
As noted, this section aims to introduce the network archi-
tecture for massive IoT provided by 6G. Since edge computing
has been studied thoroughly, we only briefly introduce edge
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11903
Fig. 4. Network architecture for 6G-enabled massive IoT: space–air–ground–underwater/sea networks with edge computing.
computing, focusing on its functions and advantages. For
details on edge computing, we recommend the readers to refer
to [72]–[76], and [77].
C. Overall Network Architecture
The overall network architecture for massive IoT in the
upcoming 6G is shown in Fig. 4, which consists of space–
air–ground–underwater/sea networks and edge computing.
As described above, the space–air–ground–underwater/sea
network extends the traditional cellular networks by integrat-
ing space, air, and underwater/sea networks, which cover all
natural space, such as space, air, land, and ocean. It will lead
to ubiquitous connectivity, that is, providing information assur-
ance for any user who can access any subnetworks. With
resorting to terahertz spectrum, visible light spectrum, and
unlicensed spectrum (for both communication and sensing),
this network can provide ultrahigh data rate and low latency
for some data-intensive and mission-critical IoT applications.
Edge computing endows tiny IoT devices with additional
computational and caching capabilities through computation
offloading. Rather than outsourcing storage and processing
functionalities of IoT data to a third party with cloud comput-
ing, edge computing can realize edge storage and processing
for the cumbersome traffic created by massive IoT and fill the
gap between centralized clouds and distributed IoT, such as
single point of failure, reachability, lack of location aware-
ness, and latencies associated with core networks. As a result,
the incorporating of edge computing can enable applications
with the needs for mobility management, location awareness,
geodistribution, scalability, and ultralow latency.
D. Open Issues
As discussed above, VLEO satellite, UAVs, terahertz, opti-
cal communications (especially VLC), and edge computing
play important roles in supporting massive IoT. Though these
technologies promise superior performances for IoT, there
are some open issues needed to be addressed before fully
achieving these visions.
1) VLEO Satellites Communications: Satellite communica-
tions are usually suffered from long latency, which consists
of transmission time, propagation time, processing time, and
queuing time. Though VLEO satellite communications main-
tain the lowest latency due to the lowest deployed altitude
compared with GEO, MEO, and LEO satellites, it is far from
enough to meet the demands of some time-sensitive applica-
tions. Hence, it is viable to integrate with other technologies,
such as in-network caching. Not only technical challenges,
e.g., long latency, are associated with VLEO satellite com-
munications but also the ones related to standardization and
political factors.
2) UAV Communications: There are different kinds of
UAVs for different purposes. For example, consumer low-
cost UAVs are with limited capabilities in terms of payload
and flying time, which are suitable for photo/video shoot-
ing applications for entertainment. Commercial or military
UAVs are capable of traveling long distances with heavy
payloads carried, which are mainly for strategic operations,
such as surveillance and wide-area communication coverage,
involving high data throughput requirements, cargo delivery,
and so on. How to achieve a balance among flying time,
carried payload, and associated costs is essential where a
joint optimization of these three important metrics is desir-
able in the future. Although some works have been done
in this direction, several years are still needed to close this
gap. Despite the technical aspects, regulations concerning pri-
vacy, data protection, and public safety should be also paid
attention to.
3) Terahertz Communications: The research on terahertz
communications needs further investigation, the achievement
of which relies on various aspects.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11904 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
Hardware Design: Transistor and hardware materials need
to comply with excellent high-frequency characteristics, the
potential materials of which is graphene. The researchers may
also find more suitable materials. In addition, nanoantennas
are desired to enable massive MIMO.
Channel Modeling: It is hard to establish the channel and
noise modeling in terahertz bands. A mixture of models that
consider path-loss mechanisms may be the solution to this
problem.
Medium Access Control (MAC) Layer Design: In view of
the relatively wide terahertz bands, the properties of different
carrier frequency windows will be rather different. The MAC
layer protocols and network deployment schemes need to be
redesigned. To improve the coverage and support the seam-
less connection, new error control mechanisms and networking
strategies should be developed, due to the high path
loss.
Network Deployment Modeling: The future network will
be multitier and heterogeneous. In 5G small cells, it tends
to be user centric, which will be more emphatic in future
6G with even smaller cells. In addition, future networks will
be deployed in 3-D. Thus, the current Poisson point process
will not be applicable. A new network deployment model is
required to consider the above facts.
4) VLC: As discussed in [70], LEDs in VLC have
interesting properties to be used as sensors. The usage of VLC
for sensing has attracted more focuses in recent years. In view
of the complexity, it can be combined with WiFi or other
techniques to improve accuracy.
Hybrid Systems: Adopted as a complementary technology
to the current RF-based systems, new hybrid VLC systems
are pointed out as a future trend. To enhance the quality of
communications, VLC is expected to cooperate with wired-
based-network devices, RF, and Ethernet networks.
Standardization: The research on VLC has conducted sev-
eral years. However, actual solutions are not interoperated due
to the different VLC hardware and testbeds. To better organize
and optimize the research field, it calls for standardization.
5) Optical Communications: First, optical communications
cannot perform well for scenarios with non-LOS (NLOS)
links, while for LOS scenarios, precise pointing between
the transceiver is essential. Second, the performance of
optical communications for underwater scenarios can be
severely degraded due to the absorption and scattering effects
of seawater, misalignment errors, channel turbulence, and
other impact factors, resulting in recurrent communication
failures [10], [78]. To this point, how to ensure the reliability
of optical communications for underwater networks should be
further studied.
6) Integration: Despite the challenges associated with indi-
vidual tier, the integration of the four tiers faces unprece-
dented challenges due to its specific characteristics of high
heterogeneity, time variability, and self-organization. Since
the space–air–ground–underwater networks are significantly
affected by the limited, heterogeneous, and unbalanced
resources in all four network segments, to obtain the best
performance is difficult for traffic delivery. As known, existing
works are mainly focusing on the space–air–ground-integrated
architectures, performance analysis, and challenges in space-
ground- or air-ground-integrated networks [79]. Few of them
concerned the case of space–air–ground networks, let alone
space–air–ground–underwater networks. As noted, the het-
erogeneity, time variability, and self-organization in space–
air–ground–underwater networks bring new challenges, which
will seriously affect the network performances, e.g., latency,
throughput, and reliability for data transmission. That is, more
research works are expected to concern such issues involving
all four network tiers.
V. BREAKTHROUGH TECHNOLOGIES
Considering the increasing growth of IoT-enabled applica-
tions in terms of volume and requirements, it is essential to
integrate breakthrough technologies to meet their demands,
the most two promising of which refer to machine learn-
ing and blockchain. In this section, we mainly introduce the
motivations, applications (or functions), and open issues when
applying these two technologies to massive IoT.
A. Machine Learning
1) Motivation: The term “edge big data” results from the
overwhelming volume of data, which is generated and col-
lected by massive IoT devices at the network edge [80], [81].
As we know, machine learning is a data-driven technique, i.e.,
the machine learning models need to be trained and tested by
using massive data. In this case, it just so happens that we
cloud apply machine learning to massive IoT to fully unleash
the potential of edge big data by data analytics, which in turn
provides the opportunity to develop intelligent applications at
the network edge.
From the perspective of communication networks, 6G will
become more complex and heterogeneous, as more techniques
are emerging, such as caching, edge computing, and terahertz
communication networks, which provide more possibilities as
well as pose more challenges for network organization, man-
agement, and optimization [82]. With computing and caching
capabilities throughout the network, pervasive intelligence is
expected to enable 6G, driving a fully autonomous future wire-
less system. With machine learning being such a craze, it has
been considered as a key approach in [31], [39], and [53] to
realize 6G from a user perspective. With intelligence intro-
duced to 6G, machine learning enables wireless networks
learning capabilities to autonomously make optimal deci-
sions to adapt to the complex and varying environment, i.e.,
self-adaptive, self-upgrade, self-aware, and predictive ability.
In summary, for both IoT applications and communication
networks, machine learning will play vital roles in building
an intelligent IoT system to deliver smart services in the 6G
massive IoT realm.
2) Roles of Machine Learning: In wireless communication
networks, machine learning can be used for prediction, big
data analysis, and decision making [15]. Considering its attrac-
tive advantages, machine learning has been proposed for 5G,
the roles of which are summarized in Table II. As we can
see, machine learning is proposed to be applied to the whole
network, ranging from the physical layer to the application
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11905
TABLE II
ROLES OF MACHINE LEARNING IN 5G
Fig. 5. Typical architecture of IoT systems.
layer, which aims to provide automation for network manage-
ment. Despite these roles in 5G, machine learning will play
even more important roles in the future 6G. First, different
from the global evolution in 5G, in which the system has to be
rebuild when new waveforms, coding, and multiaccess proto-
cols are applied, machine learning can enable local evolution
to upgrade the local networks, which brings more flexibil-
ity. Second, different from 5G, which developed an intelligent
physical layer paradigm relying on the algorithm-hardware
coupled architecture, machine learning will enable intelligent
radio based on the hardware-algorithm separation architec-
ture [53], which can adapt the environment and hardware
in an intelligent way by replacing the conventional modula-
tion/coding modules with deep neural networks (DNNs). As
6G becoming concrete and machine learning developing, it is
believed that machine learning will have more positions in 6G.
3) Applications of Machine Learning for Massive IoT in
6G: The future IoT-enabled applications encompass identifi-
cation/authentication, sensing, communication, caching, com-
putation, and localization services [83], which establish a more
complex ecosystem than ever before. A typical architecture for
these IoT-enabled applications is shown in Fig. 5, which con-
sists of three typical layers, i.e., a perception layer, a network
layer, and an application layer. The perception layer refers
to the physical systems where IoT devices acquire data and
TABLE III
SUMMARY OF EXISTING WORKS OF MACHINE LEARNING IN IOT
exert control actions by interacting with the environment. The
network layer corresponds to the communication networks
for IoT, which encompasses wireless access networks and the
Internet, aiming at discovering and connecting IoT devices to
edge/cloud servers for data or control information transmis-
sion. The application layer refers to edge computing systems,
which is in charge of data processing, storage, and decision
making for control determination.
There have been many works focusing on the applications
in the three layers of this IoT architecture, a brief summary of
which is shown in Table III. As seen in Table III, deep rein-
forcement learning (DRL) has been attracted wide attentions
from all areas.
Applications of Machine Learning in the Application Layer:
With limited energy and computation capability in IoT devices,
edge computing is essential for data analysis, prediction, deci-
sion making, (e.g., control instruction for IIoT and autonomous
driving), and computation tasks execution (e.g., rendering for
VR videos) [83]. IoT devices could offload such kinds of tasks
to edge servers to save energy and reduce latency. To further
improve the performance of IoT systems, the caching capabil-
ity of edge computing can be utilized by some data-reusable
applications, e.g., high-definition live streaming and VR/AR
(i.e., rendering results [110]).
There have been numerous works dedicated to task offload-
ing and resource allocation in edge computing for IoT systems.
Different from task offloading and resource allocation in cel-
lular networks with edge computing, some different aspects
of IoT should be considered, e.g., ubiquitous coverage to
suburban and rural areas and mobility in vehicular networks.
Space–air–ground networks are promising to provide ubiq-
uitous services for remote IoT devices, which, however, leads
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11906 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
to higher complexity for task offloading. Considering this fact,
Cheng et al. [94] proposed a reinforcement learning (RL)-
based algorithm for task offloading, which was proven to
achieve a near-optimal solution with low complexity. However,
the mobility of UAVs was ignored in this work, which intro-
duces flexibility in terms of implementation and offloading
choices as well as management complexity. Considering a
hybrid edge computing platform with ground stations, ground
vehicles, and UAVs, Jiang et al. [91] proposed a deep learning-
based algorithm to solve the resource scheduling problem,
where a large-scale path-loss fuzzy c-means algorithm was
proposed to predict the optimal positions of ground vehicles
and UAVs and a deep neural network was introduced for real-
time decision making. It was proven that the proposed methods
have better accuracy and could make real time and optimal
design feasible in the proposed architecture.
In vehicle edge computing networks, vehicles act as
mobile edge servers to provide offloading services for nearby
users, which extends the range of computation services,
as well as calls for intelligent networks. Constructing a
three-layer offloading framework for the Internet of vehicles,
Ning et al. [97] put forward a DRL algorithm to solve the
flow redirection and offloading decision problem. However,
this work only focused on services for vehicular entertainment.
Focusing on time-critical services, such as safety warnings and
navigation suggestions, Tan et al. [98] constructed a vehicular
network with MEC in the finite block-length coding regime
and proposed a deep deterministic policy gradient approach to
solve the continuous resource allocation problem. However,
the aforementioned works did not apply to large-scale prob-
lems. In this case, distributed machine learning provides a
promising solution, e.g., multiagent RL [111] and federated
learning [104], which needs further exploration.
Applications of Machine Learning in the Network Layer:
Reliable and efficient wireless communication networks are
essential for an IoT ecosystem, which range from short-range
local area networks to long-range wide area networks. To
transmit the tremendous amount of IoT data, efficient resource
control mechanisms are desired to efficiently utilize the scarce
radio, caching, and computing resources. First, the character-
istics of IoT devices need to be considered, such as massive in
number, limited energy, memory, and computation resources.
Second, the diverse requirements of the IoT-enabled applica-
tions need to be taken into account, such as high data rate, low
latency, high reliability, privacy, and so on. In addition, dif-
ferent applications may possess conflicting requirements. To
counter these challenges, a promising solution is to deploy
intelligence in the IoT ecosystem to enable IoT devices to
operate autonomously, e.g., to use machine learning.
In a mesh topology, better network connectivity is essential
for performance improvement, e.g., throughput, which could
be achieved by deploying more relay nodes at the cost of
larger energy consumption and higher complexity. Hence, it
is important to achieve a tradeoff between node coverage
and energy consumption and complexity. Kwon et al. [99]
proposed a distributed intelligent IoT connectivity solution
based on DRL that enables mobile IoT devices to strategically
make decisions on whether to activate the transmission and the
transmission power, which was proven to outperform the cur-
rent state-of-the-art solutions only with a minimal amount of
information from the IoT system. However, the cooperation
between different agents was ignored in this work.
By using the licensed spectrum, narrowband IoT (NB-IoT)
provides higher reliability and QoS. To enhance coverage, NB-
IoT chooses to increase the number of retransmissions for
data and control signals, which leads to throughput improve-
ment, but in turn, lowers the spectral efficiency. Hence, it
is important to extend coverage and reduce the number of
retransmissions. Chafii et al. [95] proposed an RL-based
dynamic spectrum access approach to increase the coverage.
Based on the proposed approach, the IoT devices select the
best channel considering both the criterion of availability and
the best coverage condition. However, this work focused on a
single-player scenario, which is not practical.
Cooperative communication has been regarded as a promis-
ing solution to enhance spectrum utilization, throughput,
coverage, and so on. The cooperation among the relay nodes
realizes the transmission sharing, thereby improves the system
performance. In this case, it is important to select the best
relay node. Jadoon and Kim [88] applied Q-learning to
solve the relay selection problem for wireless cooperative
networks. In this work, based on the state of previous system
performance and the reward function about quality, the source
node could determine the optimal relay with its learning capa-
bilities. However, the proposed Q-learning-based algorithm
cannot deal with large-scale problems. Considering this fact,
Su et al. [92] proposed a deep Q network-based relay algo-
rithm to rectify this problem, which selected the optimal relay
from a plurality of relay nodes without any prior data or the
need for a network model. However, this work did not con-
sider the mobility of sensor nodes and assumed simple channel
conditions.
To tackle the problem of the crowded spectrum to support
the increasing amount of IoT applications, cognitive networks
are regarded as one of the enablers in future IoT systems [112].
In this case, the IoT devices need to coordinate with the
actions of the primary users with effective mechanisms in
terms of spectrum access, transmission power control, trans-
mission scheduling, and so on. Zhu et al. [93] proposed to
utilize deep Q learning to solve the transmission scheduling
problem in cognitive IoT networks. An appropriate strategy is
found by the proposed mechanism to transmit packets with dif-
ferent buffers to maximize the system throughput. However,
the authors only considered one relay in this work and the
cooperation and competition between multiple relays were
ignored.
In the resource-constrained IoT systems, an intelligent and
efficient resource management scheme is pivotal to guarantee
performance, since the future networks are more complex and
heterogeneous. In a two-layer heterogeneous IIoT network,
a distributed Q-learning-aided network association scheme
was proposed [89]. However, the proposed algorithm cannot
support a massive number of IoT connections. Considering
the fact that the conventional RF networks may fail to sup-
port massive IoT connections as well as high data rate, a
collaborative RF-VLC architecture was proposed for indoor
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11907
communications [113], where RF networks offered long-
distance transmissions with wide-range coverage, while VLC
provided short-distance transmissions with high date rates.
UAV plays an important role to collect information for IoT
devices in remote or mountainous areas. Considering the high
mobility of UAVs, which results in high dynamics for chan-
nel gain, it is impractical to obtain global information in the
UAV-enabled IoT system. Hence, Cao et al. [100] proposed
a DRL-based algorithm for channel and power allocation
with only partial network information. However, the utiliza-
tion of the proposed algorithm depended on the discretization
of action space, which could not obtain the optimal solution.
Applications of Machine Learning in the Perception Layer:
The applications of machine learning in the perception layer
include sensing, control, and so on. Sensing refers to the pro-
cedure to collect the data generated by the IoT sensors. Control
mainly refers to movement control for autonomous robots
(e.g., tactile Internet, smart factory, and remote surgery), driv-
ing aid for autonomous driving, intelligent management for
smart grid.
As the foundation of an IoT system, sensing is important
for decision-making policies, where the reliability and accu-
racy of the sensed data need to be ensured. Since the IoT
sensors are susceptible to malicious attacks, it is essential to
detect outliers to ensure data quality. Recently, machine learn-
ing has been proven to be a powerful tool to detect outliers
in sensor data [114], which can be classified into paramet-
ric methods, nonparametric methods, supervised learning, and
unsupervised learning. Hasan et al. [84] used logistic regres-
sion to detect anomaly or outlier in sensed data. Though
it is simple and learns fast from the data, it suffers from
the drawback of assuming a priori of the data distribution.
To this end, Nesa et al. [85] proposed an outlier detection
approach based on the gray systems theory. Though it does
not make an assumption about the data distribution, which
makes it more pliable for any data, a lot of training data is
needed to create a mapping function. Zidi et al. [86] used
support vector machine (SVM) to detect faults in sensed data,
where a cluster head made decisions on detection. However,
this vector-based approach may destroy the original struc-
ture and correlation within large-scale sensed data, resulting
in low detection accuracy. Thus, Deng et al. [87] proposed
an intelligent outlier detection method with one-class support
Tucker machine and genetic algorithm, which extended SVM
to tensor space with retaining the structural information of
data, resulting in improved accuracy and efficiency of anomaly
detection.
Despite the outlier detection in sensor data, another problem
in sensing is the increased communication overhead and data
redundancy, which needs an efficient method to cut down
the size of the data set and to reduce the communication
cost. Traditional sensing algorithms are usually task specific
and cannot be directly applied to other field sensing tasks,
which is energy inefficient and time consuming. Considering
this, Wu et al. [105] developed an efficient sensing algorithm
with the help of RL and metalearning, which significantly
reduced the communication head with integrated communica-
tion and computation. Compressed sensing is commonly used
to downsize the transmitted data, and deep learning is proven
to have better performance for data recovery. However, it does
not apply to small data samples. To this end, Liang et al. [106]
developed a convolution-based transfer compressed sensing
model with the help of transfer learning, which could transfer
a well-trained model to other related but insufficient data sets,
resulting in better performance but less time cost.
Machine learning plays a pivotal role in enabling
autonomous robots with or without intelligence, the research
of which mainly focus on mobile behavior control, robotic
manipulation, and multirobot collaboration. Referring to gen-
eral movement control, DRL has been widely applied to
existing research, e.g., trajectory planning for UAVs [101],
[115] and path planning for navigation robots [102], [116].
Intelligent robots could perform some tasks in practice, where
an appropriate control scheme tells the robot how to achieve
a target. For example, Mnih et al. [117] utilized DRL to teach
the machine itself to play Atari 2600 games from the Arcade
Learning Environment, where it learned control policies from
high-dimensional sensory input. For multirobot scenarios, col-
laboration among these robots is essential in order to achieve
a common goal. In this case, a distributed machine learn-
ing algorithm may be more popular and appropriate, e.g.,
asynchronous actor–critic algorithms (A3C) [107].
Machine learning is considered as the key enabler of
autonomous driving by the academia and industry, which is
used to control the vehicles without the help of humans,
e.g., following, overtaking, accelerating, and direction chang-
ing (i.e., remaining in the current direction, turn right or left,
or lane changing). To study the autonomous lane changing
problem for a single vehicle, Mirchevska et al. [103] proposed
a DRL-based approach to learn high-level decision makings,
where the relative distance between the considered vehicle and
the neighboring six vehicles and the relative velocity of the
neighboring vehicles were input as the state of the learning
approach. Considering the overtaking problem, Li et al. [90]
proposed a Q-learning-based approach to improve the over-
taking policies to accord with the driving habits of humans.
However, these works only consider a single vehicle, where the
interactions among different vehicles are ignored. Motivated
by this fact, cooperative adaptive cruise control [118], naviga-
tion coordination through intersections [119] through interac-
tions, and cooperative lane changing on a freeway [120] have
been studied using RL in multivehicle scenarios. However,
these works only directly applied distributed RL, which
ignored the coordination among vehicles in the process of
learning. To solve this problem, Yu et al. [108] proposed a
strategic distributed learning solution for coordinating multiple
vehicles.
Smart grid has been the trend for future wireless networks
and attracted the attention of the world [121], which aims
to improve the electricity generation, consumption, transmis-
sion, and distribution. Due to its uncertainty, complexities,
and high volume of data, machine learning has revealed its
advantages in smart grid management, e.g., energy trading,
energy storage management, and demand response [83]. The
research and practice of deep learning and RL in smart grid
were reviewed in [121]. Energy trading allows the users to
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11908 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
switch their role between a consumer and provider depending
on its relationship between its generated and demanded energy,
where an autonomous control scheme is essential to ensure
the supply/demand balance, especially for microgrid [122]. A
promising solution is to integrate games with machine learn-
ing to achieve Nash equilibrium autonomously in a centralized
or distributed way [123], [124]. To further consider prices,
energy storage takes advantage of price fluctuations to buy
or sell energy at a proper price in order to generate profit.
Unlike previous works [125], with more practical assump-
tions, e.g., unknown electricity market prices, Cao et al. [96]
adopted a model-free RL approach to learn an optimized
control policy for storage charging/discharging. The demand
response aims to control the customers’ usage patterns in
response to electricity tariffs or other incentives and reduce
the demand during system contingencies or at peak time peri-
ods [126]. In view of the facts of the dynamic and unknown
energy prices and the demand of the users’ appliances, an
online demand response scheme based on actor–critic learning
was proposed in [109], where the long-term load scheduling
problem was investigated with real-time prices. However, only
one householder was considered and the competition among
multiple multiple utility companies needs to be explored in the
future.
4) Open Issues of Machine Learning for Massive IoT in 6G:
Though there has been a flurry of research activities dedicated
to machine learning, these works only scratch the surface,
and the potential of machine learning to tackle problems for
massive IoT in 6G remains largely unexplored [127]. Some
challenges are summarized as follows.
Incomplete Data Set in Perception Layer: Most machine
learning methods require data for training and testing, e.g.,
supervised, unsupervised learning, RL, and so on, which can
be generated or collected with different approaches. For exam-
ple, the more the data samples, the more accurately the
machine learning algorithms can achieve. The more complete
data samples are, the more accurately deep learning can learn
its model. However, it is not easy to acquire the perfect data
samples needed. First, the unpredictable link delays and radio
interference may result in slow response and certain parame-
ter miss or data errors. Second, some private data are usually
possessed by different entities, which is to sell or for secrecy.
Third, it is a privacy problem.
Long Time Cost: The long time cost may prevent the appli-
cations of machine learning, which includes training time and
inference time. The former refers to the time to train the mod-
els to be accurate enough, while the latter refers to the time
to output the results using the trained-well models. For some
applications, such as autonomous driving and tactile Internet,
it needs a near real-time response, e.g., usually a timescale
of milliseconds. However, it is far more behind enough to
train the machine learning algorithms in time, especially for
large-dimensional IoT scenarios.
Computation and Storage Hungry: Most machine learning
algorithms require powerful computation power and storage
capacity. To implement machine learning on the clouds in core
networks incurs long latency. To avoid transmission latency,
machine learning can be implemented at the network edge,
e.g., edge computing servers, which in turn may not meet the
computation demands of machine learning algorithms.
Centralized or Distributed: Considering the high complex-
ity, centralized machine learning methods are not practical,
especially for large-scale IoT problems. To cater to the
scalability problem, distributed machine learning plays an
important role. However, it usually induces high overhead for
information exchange and privacy problems. Also, it requires
each node to be with powerful computation capability. Hence,
a sophisticated choice between centralized and distributed
machine learning-based schemes is crucial, which should be
based on various factors about the addressed problem.
Optimization of Machine Learning: Due to the characteris-
tics of IoT and 6G, the implementation of machine learning
in 6G is not straightforward and some modifications need to
be made. First, each machine learning model has its draw-
backs, and it is essential to combine several machine learning
techniques to provide better performance. Second, the capabil-
ities of network entities may vary in hardware, connectivity,
and energy. This heterogeneity is believed to bring flaws for
machine learning models. Hence, machine learning should be
optimized to fix this problem. In addition, model updates can
be disclosed, and techniques, such as deep net pruning, dif-
ferential privacy, and gradient compression are recommended
to preserve privacy for machine learning. Third, distributed
machine learning is considered to be more suitable for 6G
and IoT, which, however, involves massive communication
between different edge devices. Hence, distributed machine
learning needs to be modified to cope with the wireless
communication conditions.
B. Blockchain
This section mainly introduces motivations to apply
blockchain to IoT, applications of blockchain for massive
IoT in 6G, and some open issues. For a more explicit
understanding of blockchain, refer to [18], [128], and [129].
1) Motivations of Blockchain for IoT in 6G-A Perfect
Match: With the evolution of IoT, several challenges are aris-
ing, including high complexity in network management, poor
interoperability, and privacy and security vulnerabilities, which
are explained as follows.
First, IoT systems are becoming more complex and het-
erogeneous. In the perception layer, IoT devices are hetero-
geneous, which involves various sensors, machines, vehicles,
robots, and so on. In addition, massive data are gener-
ated with different types, i.e., structured, semistructured, and
nonstructured. In the network layer, the multidimensional
space–air–ground–underwater networks incur extra manage-
ment complexity with full spectra. In the application layer,
multilevel caching and computing resources are presented
from near to far from IoT devices. In summary, all these pose
challenges to network management. For resource management,
various resources are involved, i.e., communication, caching,
and computing, the management of which should take sensing,
control, and localization into considerations as well. For data
management, massive data are difficult to manage with respect
to elaboration, communication/transmission, and storage.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11909
Second, interoperability for massive IoT in 6G becomes
difficult in the presence of multiple protocol options and cross-
platform architectures. To provide diverse services to IoT
devices, multiple operational platforms, radio access service
providers (SPs), edge cloud vendors, caching vendors, and so
on coexist. It is essential to collaborate with different SPs and
vendors and exchange data between different strategic centers,
industrial sectors, and IoT systems, which is impractical in
the current network architecture. First, a unified authentication
and authorization mechanism is required to integrate individual
systems of different operators. Second, diverse service provi-
sion and proper payment to different SPs and vendors need to
be audited and ensured. For example, the computation offload-
ing in the heterogeneous networks with MEC involves cellular
networks and MEC providers. However, there is no trusted entity
in this system to audit the computation offloading process or
ensure the surefire payments to SPs and edge cloud vendors.
Third, it refers to privacy and security issues. Massive data
are generated by massive IoT devices, which may contain con-
fidential and private information. It is important to use IoT
data with an appropriate approach so that there is no dis-
closure of user private information without users’ consent.
However, it is challenging to protect users’ privacy in IoT
due to the decentralization, heterogeneity, and complexity of
IoT systems. In addition, a trend to integrate cloud technolo-
gies, i.e., fog/edge/cloud computing with IoT arises, which
aims to empower IoT applications with extra computing and
caching/storage capabilities. In this case, if clouds are attacked,
a massive amount of data may be leaked, breaching users’
privacy [130]. Due to the characteristics of IoT systems, i.e.,
decentralized, heterogeneous, and highly complex, it is also
difficult to ensure the security of IoT. The current methods
for providing privacy, security, and data handling rely heavily
on the control of third-party entities, few of which can be fully
trusted by end users.
With improved interoperability, reliability, privacy, security,
and scalability, blockchain is perfect for massive IoT, which
could exactly deal with these challenges. The combination of
blockchain and IoT can bring the following merits.
1) Decentralized Network Management: It can be achieved
by recording all network events as transactions of the
blockchain. In this way, all events will be audited
without a third party, which is more cost efficient.
2) Interoperability Across IoT Devices, IoT Systems,
Industrial Sectors, and SPs: This can be achieved by
building a blockchain-composite layer on the top of
an overlay P2P network with uniform access to dif-
ferent systems by providing a unified authentication,
authorization mechanism, and billing system.
3) Traceability and Reliability of IoT Data: A historic
timestamp in each data block saved in a blockchain will
consequently assure the data traceability. With inher-
ent asymmetric encryption algorithms, digital signatures,
and hash functions in blockchains, the integrity of IoT
data is enforced. In this way, the security and privacy of
massive IoT will be ensured.
In addition, as analyzed in Section III, a trend from cen-
tralization to distribution in 6G is arising, and the blockchain
is regarded as a promising technology of 6G to provide a dis-
tributed network management platform, which can be used for
resource management, data sharing, data storage, and so on.
Hence, blockchain is a perfect match with IoT and 6G.
2) Applications of Blockchain for Massive IoT in 6G:
With the inherent superior properties of blockchain, i.e., dis-
tributed nature, decentralized consensus, trust-less system,
cryptographic security, and nonrepudiation guarantees, it is
considered as the key enabler of massive IoT, as well as
the next revolution of future mobile communication technol-
ogy [24]. Generally, the use of blockchain can be categorized
into three types: 1) recording as a distributed ledger; 2) decen-
tralized storing; and 3) realizing automation with smart con-
tracts [131]. The exact applications of blockchain for massive
IoT are described as follows.
Recording as a Distributed Ledger: Blockchain is attract-
ing the focus of 6G on the perspective of dynamic resource
management, e.g., spectrum, computation, caching, network
slicing, and so on, which could be used to record transactions
of resource trading and audit the process of resource trad-
ing. Currently, spectrums are auctioned off one at a time in a
process that is slow, complex to manage, and expensive. One
option is to share the spectrum by using different bands at dif-
ferent levels of priority. Another option is to build a real-time
spectrum market that would issue permissions dynamically
using AI, which will bring new efficiencies and move the
system from one of scarcity to one that can manage relative
abundance. To achieve this goal, blockchain is one of the most
promising solutions being looked at by the researchers. There
have been some works dedicated to blockchain-based spectrum
management. In [132]–[135], the spectrum sharing problem
was investigated, where blockchain acted as a peer-to-peer
decentralized ledger to record the spectrum trading efficiently.
However, all these works ignored an important problem, i.e.,
the performance of blockchain itself. For example, the trading
of the spectrum is obviously frequent, which is far larger than
the throughput of the current blockchains. Also, blockchain
itself is resource hungry in terms of computation and trans-
mission. How to ensure the advantages of utilizing blockchain
for spectrum sharing is essential. To create a new spectrum
market is not easy, ranging from the framework design to the
optimization of the system.
Decentralized Storage: In traditional cloud-based IoT
systems, a centralized cloud server maintains and controls all
the data, which poses some challenges: 1) high storage capac-
ity required from the centralized server and 2) sensitive data
easy to be leaked. To handle these issues, a decentralized struc-
ture may be more proper. Fortunately, decentralized storage is
one of the most popular applications of blockchain in IoT
systems [136]. In [137], a decentralized platform was studied,
where blockchain was used to protect personal private data.
Here, blockchain acts as a decentralized personal data man-
agement system to ensure users owning and controlling their
data. In this work, the data were stored off blockchain, the
security of which cannot be ensured. Li et al. [138] proposed
to store the IoT data in distributed hash tables (DHTs) and the
pointer to the DHT storage address in the blockchain. In this
work, the authentication of the data requester is handled by
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11910 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
the distributed blockchain nodes rather than a central server,
which maintains the advantages of decentralized storage, with-
out any intervention from a trusted server, traceability, and
accountability. However, the authentication in this work was
done by only verifying the identity of the data requester, which
needs further improvement.
Realizing Automation With Smart Contracts: A smart con-
tract is a computer program, which is self-executing, self-
verifying, and tamper resistant. It takes the transactions as
input and then executes the code. When some conditions are
met, some events are triggered, in which way automation is
achieved. In IoT systems, different nodes need to cooperate
with each other to provide services, which necessities the
need of managing the identity of nodes and realizing security
authentication between nodes [139]. Some works have adopted
smart contracts for access control in IoT systems [140], [141],
where the main function of smart contracts is to manage the
data records. Different from these works, Zhang et al. [142]
proposed a smart contract-based access control framework,
which consisted of multiple access control contracts to achieve
distributed access control for untrustworthy IoT systems.
Zhaofeng et al. [20] proposed a blockchain-based decen-
tralized trust management and data usage scheme, where a
smart contract was in charge of all data operation, i.e., data
gathering, invoking, processing, transfer, and usage. In IoT
networks, a blockchain-based identity management framework
was proposed in [143], where a smart contract was utilized to
govern the interactions between IoT devices by implement-
ing the processes and rules. Apart from identity management,
smart contract can be also used for autonomous energy trad-
ing [144], adaptive offloading [145], IoT device behavior
regulation [146], and so on.
3) Open Issues of Blockchain for Massive IoT in 6G:
Despite these potential visions of blockchain in massive IoT,
multiple challenges need to be addressed before its widespread
applications.
Performances of Blockchain-Based Systems: In blockchain-
based systems, it performs as an overlaid layer to provide
services to the underlaid layer, i.e., IoT systems. Hence, we
need to guarantee the performances of both systems, which
affect each other significantly.
Resource Hungry: Blockchain is inherently resource hun-
gry in terms of both computation, caching, and transmission
for block generation, verification, ledger storage, and the
consensus among nodes. How to ensure the advantage of
incorporating blockchain into IoT should be investigated.
New Security Threats: Outsourcing a large scale of services
at the edge and self-organization to achieve automation both
triggers new security problems, which need to be studied
furthermore.
Resource Management: On one hand, the resources of the
networks are limited, such as computation, caching, and wire-
less resources, especially at the network edge. On another
hand, the blockchain system itself is resource hungry. Thus,
the resources need to be allocated between the blockchain and
wireless systems to make the best use of limited resources.
Optimization of Blockchain: To make full use of blockchain
for IoT and 6G, it should be optimized in various ways. First,
the services of IoT-enabled applications are highly hetero-
geneous in terms of different technical requirements. Some
require ultralow latency, while some care only about privacy.
Hence, blockchain needs to be modified with more power-
ful adaptivity to support a wide variety of services, where a
generic blockchain platform for IoT and 6G is desired. Second,
blockchain is limited by its own properties, i.e., scalability
and delay (or time to finality), which is vital to apply it to
massive IoT. Hence, a novel consensus protocol needs to be
designed to improve the throughput, time to finality, security,
and so on, which should meet the corresponding demands of
IoT applications in 6G.
C. Combination of AI and Blockchain
As two of the most disruptive technologies, AI and
blockchain have its own natural limitations, which restrict
their applications to 6G. To fully unleash the potential of
this two techniques and meet the future intelligent, distributed,
and secure requirements, it is essential to combine these two
megatrends, which will make mutual enhancement.
Blockchain for AI: To date, the majority of AI methods rely
on a centralized model for training and inference by uploading
data collected at edge devices to data centers. This centralized
nature will lead to massive communication overhead and a
possibility of data tampering. As a result, the decisions made
by AI may be delayed and highly erroneous [147]. In this
case, distributed AI is in dire need, where privacy preser-
vation and network traffic congestion reduction are enabled
by avoiding data uploading to a central server. However, dis-
tributed training and inference still require communications
between different agents and a centralized server for data and
model sharing. First, model updates can be disclosed. Second,
it is hard to evaluate the contributions of each agent and lacks
motivation for data and model sharing.
To deal with these problems, blockchain is considered as a
promising solution. By replacing the centralized server in dis-
tributed AI with blockchain, in which models are stored in the
form of transactions, model sharing is operated autonomously
with smart contracts, and decisions are made on blockchain,
multiple benefits are brought, which are illustrated in Fig. 6.
First, it will provide rational motivations for data and model
sharing. Second, security and privacy can be ensured with
inherent asymmetric encryption algorithms, digital signatures,
and hash functions in blockchain. Third, decisions made by
distributed AI that utilize blockchain can be trusted. As a
result, distributed intelligence will be enabled.
AI for Blockchain: The benefits brought by AI to blockchain
are mainly twofold. First, AI can manage blockchains more
efficiently. Nowadays, the operation of blockchain on com-
puters requires a large amount of computer processing power,
which is inefficient. Take the hashing algorithm as an exam-
ple. A brute force approach is used by the Bitcoin blockchain
to mine blocks, which tries every combination of characters
until a transaction can be verified. Moving away from this
brute force approach, a more intelligent and thoughtful manner
to manage tasks is desired, e.g., a machine learning-powered
mining algorithm. Despite mining, the other tasks can also
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11911
Fig. 6. Benefits of integrating blockchain to AI.
be enhanced with AI, e.g., AI-powered smart contracts [148].
With AI embedded, blockchain will become more efficient,
resulting in better performance. Second, AI could make full
use of the blockchain encrypted data. Information is held on
a blockchain database in an encrypted state, which provides
high security for sensitive data, but in turn, proposes extra
challenges for data usage. To make things safer, we should
reduce such incidents in which unencrypted data are exposed
in any part of data processing. Nowadays, a new field of AI is
emerging, which aims at building algorithms capable of oper-
ating on encrypted data [149]. With AI working with encrypted
data, it will further enhance data security and make full use
of blockchain database.
VI. CASE STUDY
To show how 6G can support IoT-enabled applications, we
present a case study on fully autonomous driving in 6G, which
is shown in Fig. 7. This system enables fully autonomous
driving through offloading from connected autonomous vehi-
cles (CAVs) to edge servers via the space–air–ground–
underwater/sea networks, which includes three layers, CAV
layer, network layer, and application layer. In the CAV layer,
an autonomous vehicle is equipped with various sensors,
including LIDAR, RADAR, cameras, GPS, ultrasonic sensors,
and so on, which convert some events and physical envi-
ronment into electrical signals for measurement, i.e., sensed
data. The network layer refers to the space–air–ground–
underwater/sea network, which aims to provide connectivity
to CAVs. Especially, the ground tier is the main solution.
The air tier provides flexible coverage for CAVs, which can
also help sense the environment. The space tier can be used
for localization and coverage for extreme areas. The appli-
cation layer enables machine learning and blockchain by
providing computing and storage capabilities. Here, machine
Fig. 7. Fully autonomous driving in 6G. CAV: connected autonomous
vehicles. TBS: terrestrial base station. UAV: unmanned aerial vehicle. ML:
machine learning.
learning deployed on edge servers could help solve tasks that
CAVs could not deal with, which could also help enhance
the performance of blockchain embedded on edge servers.
Blockchain can help store important information for CAVs
and model parameters for machine learning (in an encrypted
state, of course), and audit the offloading process of CAVs,
which ensures the security and privacy of this system.
As shown in Fig. 7, fully autonomous driving can be
achieved in the following procedure.
1) The vehicles use terahertz spectrum or other unlicensed
spectrum for sensing data, e.g., the location and velocity
of the surrounding vehicles, the conditions of the road
surface, and the traffic light. Then, the sensed data are
transferred to the application layer through the network
layer with the help of the space–air–ground–underwater
networks, which provide high data rate, low latency, full
coverage, and high reliability.
2) These data can be stored on blockchain, which preserves
privacy for CAVs.
3) Machine learning models are trained with these sensed
data on blockchain.
4) CAVs offload computation tasks to edge servers via the
space–air–ground–underwater/sea networks.
5) The application layer uses trained machine learning
models to make intelligent decisions for driving assis-
tant, e.g., lane changing and overtaking (i.e., strategy
inference).
6) Offloading processes are stored on blockchain, which
provides audition and motivation for offloading services.
7) The inference results, e.g., the control information, are
delivered to the vehicles through the network layer. In
this way, fully autonomous driving is achieved. In addi-
tion, access control, data sharing between different cars
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11912 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
and edge servers, and resource sharing can be con-
trolled by blockchain, which could further enhance the
performance of this system.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this article, we did a comprehensive survey on mas-
sive IoT enabled by 6G. We provided an overview of the
drivers and requirements, where the emerging applications
and limitations of 5G were summarized. These applications
include holographic communications, five-sense communi-
cations, WBCI, smart healthcare, smart education/training,
industry Internet, fully autonomous driving, and super smart
city/home. Then, a discussion on the visions of 6G in terms
of core technical requirements, use cases, and trends is car-
ried out. To meet the demand of the IoT-enabled applications,
especially the full coverage requirement, 6G provides a four-
tier network architecture enhanced by edge computing. As
an omnipotent network, 6G also provides some breakthrough
technologies, including machine learning and blockchain, to
enable intelligence and distribution in future IoT systems,
which play vital roles in the whole IoT architecture, from the
perception layer and network layer to the application layer.
Finally, we present a use case of fully autonomous driving to
show how 6G supports massive IoT.
In summary, research on 6G and massive IoT is quite broad
and a number of challenges lay ahead. Nevertheless, it is in
favor of the wireless community to swiftly address the chal-
lenges and go forward. This article attempts to briefly explore
the technologies related to 6G and IoT, and to discuss future
research that may benefit the pursuit of this vision. We hope
that our discussion and exploration here may open a new
avenue for the development of 6G and IoT, and shed lights
on effective and efficient designs therein.
REFERENCES
[1] Q. Qi, X. Chen, C. Zhong, and Z. Zhang, “Integration of energy, com-
putation and communication in 6G cellular Internet of Things,” IEEE
Comm. Lett., vol. 24, no. 6, pp. 1333–1337, Jun. 2020.
[2] A. H. Sodhro, S. Pirbhulal, L. Zongwei, K. Muhammad, and N. Zahid,
“Towards 6G architecture for energy efficient communication in IoT-
enabled smart automation systems,” IEEE Internet Things J., early
access, Sep. 18, 2020, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2020.3024715.
[3] X. Li, T. Chen, Q. Cheng, S. Ma, and J. Ma, “Smart applications in
edge computing: Overview on authentication and data security,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 6, pp. 4063–4080, Mar. 2021.
[4] N. H. Crisp et al., “The benefits of very low earth orbit for earth obser-
vation missions,” Progr. Aerosp. Sci., vol. 117, pp. 1–23, Aug. 2020.
[Online]. Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.paerosci.2020.100619
[5] S. M. Dakka, “VLEO satellites—A new earth observation space
systems commercial and business model,” in Proc. 36th Int. Commun.
Satellite Syst. Conf. (ICSSC), Niagara Falls, ON, Canada, 2018,
pp. 1–11.
[6] M. Samir, S. Sharafeddine, C. M. Assi, T. M. Nguyen, and A. Ghrayeb,
“UAV trajectory planning for data collection from time-constrained IoT
devices,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 34–46,
Jan. 2020.
[7] Z. Na, Y. Liu, J. Shi, C. Liu, and Z. Gao, “UAV-supported clustered
NOMA for 6G-enabled Internet of Things: Trajectory planning and
resource allocation,” IEEE Internet Things J., early access, Jun. 23,
2020, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2020.3004432.
[8] L. Yan, C. Han, and J. Yuan, “Hybrid precoding for 6G terahertz com-
munications: Performance evaluation and open problems,” in Proc. 2nd
6G Wireless Summit (6G SUMMIT), Levi, Finland, 2020, pp. 1–5.
[9] D. Pompili and I. F. Akyildiz, “Overview of networking protocols for
underwater wireless communications,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 47,
no. 1, pp. 97–102, Jan. 2009.
[10] Z. Zeng, S. Fu, H. Zhang, Y. Dong, and J. Cheng, “A survey of under-
water optical wireless communications,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 19, no. 1, pp. 204–238, 1st Quart., 2017.
[11] P. Porambage, J. Okwuibe, M. Liyanage, M. Ylianttila, and T. Taleb,
“Survey on multi-access edge computing for Internet of Things real-
ization,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2961–2991,
4th Quart., 2018.
[12] M. Ejaz, T. Kumar, M. Ylianttila, and E. Harjula, “Performance
and efficiency optimization of multi-layer IoT edge architecture,” in
Proc. 2nd 6G Wireless Summit (6G SUMMIT), Levi, Finland, 2020,
pp. 1–5.
[13] E. C. Strinati et al., “6G: The next frontier: From holographic mes-
saging to artificial intelligence using subterahertz and visible light
communication,” IEEE Veh. Technol. Mag., vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 42–50,
Sep. 2019.
[14] M. Z. Chowdhury, M. Shahjalal, S. Ahmed, and Y. M. Jang, “6G wire-
less communication systems: Applications, requirements, technologies,
challenges, and research directions,” Sep. 2019. [Online]. Available:
http://arxiv.org/abs/1909.11315.
[15] Y. Zhao and G. Yu, and H. Xu, “6G mobile communication
network: Vision, challenges and key technologies,” SCIENTIA SINICA
Information, vol. 49, no. 8, pp. 963–987, 2019.
[16] S. K. Sharma and X. Wang, “Toward massive machine type com-
munications in ultra-dense cellular IoT networks: Current issues and
machine learning-assisted solutions,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 22, no. 1, pp. 426–471, 1st Quart., 2020.
[17] F. R. Yu, J. Liu, Y. He, P. Si, and Y. Zhang, “Virtualization
for distributed ledger technology (vDLT),” IEEE Access, vol. 6,
pp. 25019–25028, 2018.
[18] M. S. Ali, M. Vecchio, M. Pincheira, K. Dolui, F. Antonelli, and
M. H. Rehmani, “Applications of blockchains in the Internet of Things:
A comprehensive survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 2,
pp. 1676–1717, 2nd Quart., 2019.
[19] M. Wu, K. Wang, X. Cai, S. Guo, M. Guo, and C. Rong, “A com-
prehensive survey of blockchain: From theory to IoT applications
and beyond,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8114–8154,
Oct. 2019.
[20] M. Zhaofeng, W. Lingyun, W. Xiaochang, W. Zhen, and Z. Weizhe,
“Blockchain-enabled decentralized trust management and secure usage
control of IoT big data,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 5,
pp. 4000–4015, May 2020.
[21] J. Xie et al., “A survey of blockchain technology applied to smart
cities: Research issues and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 21, no. 3, pp. 2794–2830, 3rd Quart., 2019.
[22] L. Chettri and R. Bera, “A comprehensive survey on Internet of Things
(IoT) toward 5G wireless systems,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 16–32, Jan. 2020.
[23] G. A. Akpakwu, B. J. Silva, G. P. Hancke, and A. M. Abu-Mahfouz,
“A survey on 5G networks for the Internet of Things: Communication
technologies and challenges,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 3619–3647,
2017.
[24] T. Huang, W. Yang, J. Wu, J. Ma, X. Zhang, and D. Zhang, “A survey
on green 6G network: Architecture and technologies,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 175758–175768, 2019.
[25] X. You et al., “Towards 6G wireless communication networks: Vision,
enabling technologies, and new paradigm shifts,” Sci. China Inf. Sci.,
vol. 64, pp. 1–77, Nov. 2020.
[26] F. Hussain, S. A. Hassan, R. Hussain, and E. Hossain, “Machine learn-
ing for resource management in cellular and IoT networks: Potentials,
current solutions, and open challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1251–1275, 2nd Quart., 2020.
[27] W. Viriyasitavat, L. D. Xu, Z. Bi, and D. Hoonsopon, “Blockchain
technology for applications in Internet of Things—Mapping from
system design perspective,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5,
pp. 8155–8168, Oct. 2019.
[28] J. R. Wolpaw, N. Birbaumer, D. J. McFarland, G. Pfurtscheller, and
T. M. Vaughan, “Brain–computer interfaces for communication and
control,” Clin. Neurophysiol., vol. 113, no. 6, pp. 767–791, 2002.
[29] S. Guruprakash, R. Balaganesh, M. Divakar, K. Aravinth, and
S. Kavitha, “Brain controlled home automation,” Proc. Int. J. Adv. Res.
Biol. Eng. Sci. Technol. (IJARBEST), vol. 2, no. 10, pp. 430–436, 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.3024715
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2020.3004432
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11913
[30] P. Zioga, F. Pollick, M. Ma, P. Chapman, and K. Stefanov,
“‘Enheduanna—A manifesto of falling’ live brain-computer cinema
performance: Performer and audience participation, cognition and emo-
tional engagement using multi-brain BCI interaction,” Front. Neurosci.,
vol. 12, p. 191, Apr. 2018.
[31] W. Saad, M. Bennis, and M. Chen, “A vision of 6G wireless systems:
Applications, trends, technologies, and open research problems,” IEEE
Netw., vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 134–142, May/Jun. 2020.
[32] S. D. Pendleton et al., “Perception, planning, control, and coordination
for autonomous vehicles,” Machines, vol. 5, no. 1, p. 6, 2017.
[33] R. Yang, F. R. Yu, P. Si, Z. Yang, and Y. Zhang, “Integrated blockchain
and edge computing systems: A survey, some research issues and chal-
lenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1508–1532,
2nd Quart., 2019.
[34] 2018 Broadband Deployment Report, Federal Commun. Commission,
Washington, DC, USA, Feb. 2018.
[35] I. Ahmad, S. Shahabuddin, T. Kumar, J. Okwuibe, A. Gurtov, and
M. Ylianttila, “Security for 5G and beyond,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 21, no. 4, pp. 3682–3722, 4th Quart., 2019.
[36] D. Younger. (2018). 5G Study Raises Security Concerns for
Next Generation of Mobile Communication. [Online]. Available:
https://www.dundee.ac.uk/news/2018/5g-study-raises-security-
concerns-for-next-generation-of-mobile-communication.php
[37] M. Aazam, K. A. Harras, and S. Zeadally, “Fog computing for 5G
tactile Industrial Internet of Things: QoE-aware resource allocation
model,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 3085–3092,
May 2019.
[38] Z. Ma, Z. Zhang, Z. Ding, P. Fan, and H. Li, “Key techniques for
5G wireless communications: Network architecture, physical layer, and
MAC layer perspectives,” Sci. China Inf. Sci., vol. 58, no. 4, pp. 1–20,
Apr. 2015.
[39] Z. Zhang et al., “6G wireless networks: Vision, requirements, architec-
ture, and key technologies,” IEEE Veh. Technol. Mag., vol. 14, no. 3,
pp. 28–41, Sep. 2019.
[40] J. A. del Peral-Rosado, R. Raulefs, J. A. López-Salcedo, and
G. Seco-Granados, “Survey of cellular mobile radio localization meth-
ods: From 1G to 5G,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 2,
pp. 1124–1148, 2nd Quart., 2018.
[41] A. Jamalipour and T. Tung, “The role of satellites in global IT:
Trends and implications,” IEEE Pers. Commun., vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 5–11,
Jun. 2001.
[42] B. Zong, C. Fan, X. Wang, X. Duan, B. Wang, and J. Wang, “6G
technologies: Key drivers, core requirements, system architectures,
and enabling technologies,” IEEE Veh. Technol. Mag., vol. 14, no. 3,
pp. 18–27, Sep. 2019.
[43] FG-NET-2030, “Network 2030—A blueprint of technol-
ogy, applications and market drivers towards the year
2030 and beyond,” ITU, Geneva, Switzerland, White Paper,
May 2019. [Online]. Available: https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-
T/focusgroups/net2030/Documents/White_Paper.pdf
[44] I. F. Akyildiz, J. M. Jornet, and C. Han, “Terahertz band: Next fron-
tier for wireless communications,” Phys. Commun., vol. 12, pp. 16–32,
Sep. 2014.
[45] Z. Chen et al., “A survey on terahertz communications,” China
Commun., vol. 16, no. 2, pp. 1–35, Feb. 2019.
[46] H. Elayan, O. Amin, R. M. Shubair, and M.-S. Alouini, “Terahertz
communication: The opportunities of wireless technology beyond
5G,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Adv. Commun. Technol. Netw. (CommNet),
Marrakech, Morocco, Apr. 2018, pp. 1–5.
[47] Q. Bi, “Ten trends in the cellular industry and an outlook on 6G,” IEEE
Commun. Mag., vol. 57, no. 12, pp. 31–36, Dec. 2019.
[48] V. Petrov, A. Pyattaev, D. Moltchanov, and Y. Koucheryavy, “Terahertz
band communications: Applications, research challenges, and standard-
ization activities,” in Proc. 8th Int. Congr. Ultra Modern Telecommun.
Control Syst. Workshops (ICUMT), Lisbon, Portugal, Oct. 2016,
pp. 183–190.
[49] J. Eggerton. FCC’s Rosenworcel Talks Up 6G. Accessed: Sep. 14,
2018. [Online]. Available: https://www.multichannel.com/news/fccs-
rosenworcel-talks-up-6g
[50] M. L. Roberts, M. A. Temple, R. F. Mills, and R. A. Raines, “Evolution
of the air interface of cellular communications systems toward 4G
realization,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 2–23,
1st Quart., 2006.
[51] R. Xie, Q. Tang, Q. Wang, X. Liu, F. R. Yu, and T. Huang,
“Satellite-terrestrial integrated edge computing networks: Architecture,
challenges, and open issues,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 3, pp. 224–231,
May/Jun. 2020.
[52] X. Cao, P. Yang, M. Alzenad, X. Xi, D. Wu, and H. Yanikomeroglu,
“Airborne communication networks: A survey,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun., vol. 36, no. 9, pp. 1907–1926, Sep. 2018.
[53] K. B. Letaief, W. Chen, Y. Shi, J. Zhang, and Y.-J. A. Zhang, “The
roadmap to 6G: AI empowered wireless networks,” IEEE Commun.
Mag., vol. 57, no. 8, pp. 84–90, Aug. 2019.
[54] F. Tariq, M. Khandaker, K.-K. Wong, M. Imran, M. Bennis, and
M. Debbah, “A speculative study on 6G,” Feb. 2019. [Online].
Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1902.06700.
[55] X. Wang, R. Li, C. Wang, X. Li, T. Taleb, and V. C. M. Leung,
“Attention-weighted federated deep reinforcement learning for device-
to-device assisted heterogeneous collaborative edge caching,” IEEE J.
Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 154–169, Jan. 2021.
[56] P. K. Chowdhury, M. Atiquzzaman, and W. Ivancic, “Handover
schemes in satellite networks: State-of-the-art and future research direc-
tions,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2–14, 4th Quart.,
2006.
[57] M. Lin, Z. Lin, W.-P. Zhu, and J.-B. Wang, “Joint beamforming for
secure communication in cognitive satellite terrestrial networks,” IEEE
J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 36, no. 5, pp. 1017–1029, May 2018.
[58] SpaceX V-Band Non-Geostationary Satellite System, SpaceX,
Hawthorne, CA, USA, Nov. 2018.
[59] A. Pasztor, OneWeb Satellite Startup to Set Up Manufacturing in
Florida, Wall Street J., New York, NY, USA, Feb. 2016.
[60] FCC Boosts Satellite Broadband Connectivity and Competition in the
United States, FCC News, Washington, DC, USA, Nov. 2018.
[61] D. Zhai, H. Li, X. Tang, R. Zhang, Z. Ding, and F. R. Yu, “Height
optimization and resource allocation for noma enhanced UAV-aided
relay networks,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 69, no. 2, pp. 962–975,
Feb. 2021.
[62] A. A. Khuwaja, Y. Chen, N. Zhao, M.-S. Alouini, and P. Dobbins, “A
survey of channel modeling for UAV communications,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 2804–2821, 4th Quart., 2018.
[63] V. Petrov, D. Moltchanov, J. M. Jornet, and Y. Koucheryavy,
“Exploiting multipath terahertz communications for physical layer
security in beyond 5G networks,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Commun. Workshops (INFOCOM WKSHPS), Paris, France, Apr. 2019,
pp. 865–872.
[64] O. Ergul, E. Dinc, and O. B. Akan, “Communicate to illuminate: State-
of-the-art and research challenges for visible light communications,”
Phys. Commun., vol. 17, pp. 72–85, Dec. 2015.
[65] A.-M. Cǎilean and M. Dimian, “Current challenges for visible light
communications usage in vehicle applications: A survey,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 2681–2703, 4th Quart.,
2017.
[66] B. Schrenk, M. Hofer, F. Laudenbach, H. Hübel, and T. Zemen,
“Visible-light multi-Gb/s transmission based on resonant cavity LED
with optical energy feed,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 36, no. 1,
pp. 175–184, Jan. 2018.
[67] P. H. Pathak, X. Feng, P. Hu, and P. Mohapatra, “Visible light
communication, networking, and sensing: A survey, potential and chal-
lenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 2047–2077,
4th Quart., 2015.
[68] S. U. Rehman, S. Ullah, P. H. J. Chong, S. Yongchareon, and
D. Komosny, “Visible light communication: A system perspective—
Overview and challenges,” Sensors, vol. 19, no. 5, p. 1153, Mar. 2019.
[69] C. Wang, H.-Y. Yu, and Y.-J. Zhu, “A long distance underwater visible
light communication system with single photon avalanche diode,” IEEE
Photon. J., vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 1–11, Oct. 2016.
[70] L. E. M. Matheus, A. B. Vieira, L. F. M. Vieira, M. A. M. Vieira,
and O. Gnawali, “Visible light communication: Concepts, applica-
tions and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21, no. 4,
pp. 3204–3237, 4th Quart., 2019.
[71] A. Al-Fuqaha, M. Guizani, M. Mohammadi, M. Aledhari, and
M. Ayyash, “Internet of Things: A survey on enabling technologies,
protocols, and applications,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 17,
no. 4, pp. 2347–2376, 4th Quart., 2015.
[72] T. Qiu, J. Chi, X. Zhou, Z. Ning, M. Atiquzzaman, and D. O. Wu,
“Edge computing in Industrial Internet of Things: Architecture,
advances and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 4,
pp. 2462–2488, 4th Quart., 2020.
[73] T. Taleb, K. Samdanis, B. Mada, H. Flinck, S. Dutta, and D. Sabella,
“On multi-access edge computing: A survey of the emerging 5G
network edge cloud architecture and orchestration,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 1657–1681, 3rd Quart., 2017.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11914 IEEE INTERNET OF THINGS JOURNAL, VOL. 8, NO. 15, AUGUST 1, 2021
[74] X. Wang, Y. Han, V. C. M. Leung, D. Niyato, X. Yan, and X. Chen,
“Convergence of edge computing and deep learning: A comprehensive
survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 869–904, 2nd
Quart., 2020.
[75] A. Alwarafy, K. A. Al-Thelaya, M. Abdallah, J. Schneider, and
M. Hamdi, “A survey on security and privacy issues in edge-computing-
assisted Internet of Things,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 6,
pp. 4004–4022, Mar. 2021.
[76] L. U. Khan, I. Yaqoob, N. H. Tran, S. M. A. Kazmi, T. N. Dang, and
C. S. Hong, “Edge-computing-enabled smart cities: A comprehensive
survey,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 10, pp. 10200–10232,
Oct. 2020.
[77] P. Mach and Z. Becvar, “Mobile edge computing: A survey on archi-
tecture and computation offloading,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 1628–1656, 3rd Quart., 2017.
[78] M. Z. Chowdhury, M. K. Hasan, M. Shahjalal, M. T. Hossan, and
Y. M. Jang, “Optical wireless hybrid networks: Trends, opportunities,
challenges, and research directions,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts.,
vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 930–966, 2nd Quart., 2020.
[79] J. Liu, Y. Shi, Z. M. Fadlullah, and N. Kato, “Space-air-ground inte-
grated network: A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 4,
pp. 2714–2741, 4th Quart., 2018.
[80] Z. Chang, L. Lei, Z. Zhou, S. Mao, and T. Ristaniemi, “Learn to cache:
Machine learning for network edge caching in the big data era,” IEEE
Wireless Commun., vol. 25, no. 3, pp. 28–35, Jun. 2018.
[81] X. Cao, L. Liu, Y. Cheng, and X. S. Shen, “Towards energy-efficient
wireless networking in the big data era: A survey,” IEEE Commun.
Surveys Tuts., vol. 20, no. 1, pp. 303–332, 1st Quart., 2018.
[82] X. Wang, X. Ren, C. Qiu, Y. Cao, T. Taleb, and V. C. M. Leung, “Net-
in-AI: A computing-power networking framework with adaptability,
flexibility, and profitability for ubiquitous AI,” IEEE Netw., vol. 35,
no. 1, pp. 280–288, Jan./Feb. 2021.
[83] L. Lei, Y. Tan, K. Zheng, S. Liu, K. Zhang, and X. Shen, “Deep
reinforcement learning for autonomous Internet of Things: Model,
applications and challenges,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22,
no. 3, pp. 1722–1760, 3rd Quart., 2020.
[84] M. Hasan, M. M. Islam, M. I. I. Zarif, and M. M. A. Hashem,
“Attack and anomaly detection in IoT sensors in IoT sites using
machine learning approaches,” Internet Things, vol. 7, Sep. 2019,
Art. no. 100059.
[85] N. Nesa, T. Ghosh, and I. Banerjee, “Non-parametric sequence-based
learning approach for outlier detection in IoT,” Future Gener. Comput.
Syst., vol. 82, pp. 412–421, May 2018.
[86] S. Zidi, T. Moulahi, and B. Alaya, “Fault detection in wireless sensor
networks through SVM classifier,” IEEE Sensors J., vol. 18, no. 1,
pp. 340–347, Jan. 2018.
[87] X. Deng, P. Jiang, X. Peng, and C. Mi, “An intelligent outlier detection
method with one class support tucker machine and genetic algo-
rithm toward big sensor data in Internet of Things,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Electron., vol. 66, no. 6, pp. 4672–4683, Jun. 2019.
[88] M. A. Jadoon and S. Kim, “Relay selection algorithm for wireless coop-
erative networks: A learning-based approach,” IET Commun., vol. 11,
no. 7, pp. 1061–1066, May 2017.
[89] J. Wang, C. Jiang, K. Zhang, X. Hou, Y. Ren, and Y. Qian,
“Distributed Q-learning aided heterogeneous network association for
energy-efficient IIoT,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 4,
pp. 2756–2764, Apr. 2020.
[90] X. Li, X. Xu, and L. Zuo, “Reinforcement learning based overtak-
ing decision-making for highway autonomous driving,” in Proc. 6th
Int. Conf. Intell. Control Inf. Process. (ICICIP), Wuhan, China, 2015,
pp. 336–342.
[91] F. Jiang, K. Wang, L. Dong, C. Pan, W. Xu, and K. Yang, “Deep-
learning-based joint resource scheduling algorithms for hybrid MEC
networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 6252–6265,
Jul. 2020.
[92] Y. Su, X. Lu, Y. Zhao, L. Huang, and X. Du, “Cooperative commu-
nications with relay selection based on deep reinforcement learning
in wireless sensor networks,” IEEE Sensors J., vol. 19, no. 20,
pp. 9561–9569, Oct. 2019.
[93] J. Zhu, Y. Song, D. Jiang, and H. Song, “A new deep-Q-learning-
based transmission scheduling mechanism for the cognitive Internet
of Things,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 2375–2385,
Aug. 2018.
[94] N. Cheng et al., “Space/aerial-assisted computing offloading for IoT
applications: A learning-based approach,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun.,
vol. 37, no. 5, pp. 1117–1129, May 2019.
[95] M. Chafii, F. Bader, and J. Palicot, “Enhancing coverage in narrow
band-IoT using machine learning,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Commun.
Netw. Conf. (WCNC), Barcelona, Spain, 2018, pp. 1–6.
[96] J. Cao, D. Harrold, Z. Fan, T. Morstyn, D. Healey, and K. Li, “Deep
reinforcement learning-based energy storage arbitrage with accurate
lithium-ion battery degradation model,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
vol. 11, no. 5, pp. 4513–4521, Sep. 2020.
[97] Z. Ning et al., “Deep reinforcement learning for intelligent Internet of
Vehicles: An energy-efficient computational offloading scheme,” IEEE
Trans. Cogn. Commun. Netw., vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 1060–1072, Dec. 2019.
[98] G. Tan, H. Zhang, and S. Zhou, “Resource allocation in MEC-enabled
vehicular networks: A deep reinforcement learning approach,” in Proc.
IEEE INFOCOM Conf. Comput. Commun. Workshops (INFOCOM
WKSHPS), Toronto, ON, Canada, 2020, pp. 406–411.
[99] M. Kwon, J. Lee, and H. Park, “Intelligent IoT connectivity: Deep
reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Sensors J., vol. 20, no. 5,
pp. 2782–2791, Mar. 2020.
[100] Y. Cao, L. Zhang, and Y.-C. Liang, “Deep reinforcement learning for
channel and power allocation in UAV-enabled IoT systems,” in Proc.
IEEE Global Commun. Conf. (GLOBECOM), Waikoloa, HI, USA,
2019, pp. 1–6.
[101] J. Hu, H. Zhang, and L. Song, “Reinforcement learning for decentral-
ized trajectory design in cellular UAV networks with sense-and-send
protocol,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 6177–6189,
Aug. 2019.
[102] J. Xin, H. Zhao, D. Liu, and M. Li, “Application of deep reinforcement
learning in mobile robot path planning,” in Proc. Chin. Autom. Congr.
(CAC), Jinan, China, 2017, pp. 7112–7116.
[103] B. Mirchevska, C. Pek, M. Werling, M. Althoff, and J. Boedecker,
“High-level decision making for safe and reasonable autonomous lane
changing using reinforcement learning,” in Proc. 21st Int. Conf. Intell.
Transp. Syst. (ITSC), Maui, HI, USA, 2018, pp. 2156–2162.
[104] S. Yu, X. Chen, Z. Zhou, X. Gong, and D. Wu, “When deep rein-
forcement learning meets federated learning: Intelligent multitimescale
resource management for multiaccess edge computing in 5G ultra-
dense network,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 2238–2251,
Feb. 2021.
[105] H. Wu, Z. Zhang, C. Jiao, C. Li, and T. Q. S. Quek, “Learn to sense:
A meta-learning-based sensing and fusion framework for wireless sen-
sor networks,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 8215–8227,
Oct. 2019.
[106] J. Liang, L. Li, and C. Zhao, “A transfer learning approach for com-
pressed sensing in 6G-IoT,” IEEE Internet Things J., early access,
Jan. 20, 2021, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2021.3053088.
[107] G. Sartoretti, Y. Wu, W. Paivine, T. K. Kumar, S. Koenig, and
H. Choset, “Distributed reinforcement learning for multi-robot decen-
tralized collective construction,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Distrib. Auton.
Robot. Syst. (DARS), 2018, pp. 35–49.
[108] C. Yu et al., “Distributed multiagent coordinated learning for
autonomous driving in highways based on dynamic coordination
graphs,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 735–748,
Feb. 2020.
[109] S. Bahrami, V. W. S. Wong, and J. Huang, “An online learning algo-
rithm for demand response in smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
vol. 9, no. 5, pp. 4712–4725, Sep. 2018.
[110] F. Guo, F. R. Yu, H. Zhang, H. Ji, V. C. M. Leung, and X. Li, “An
adaptive wireless virtual reality framework in future wireless networks:
A distributed learning approach,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 69,
no. 8, pp. 8514–8528, Aug. 2020.
[111] H. Peng and X. Shen, “Multi-agent reinforcement learning based
resource management in MEC- and UAV-assisted vehicular networks,”
IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 131–141, Jan. 2021.
[112] A. Somov, C. Dupont, and R. Giaffreda, “Supporting smart-city mobil-
ity with cognitive Internet of Things,” in Proc. Future Netw. Mobile
Summit, Lisbon, Portugal, 2013, pp. 1–10.
[113] H. Zhang, N. Liu, K. Long, J. Cheng, V. C. M. Leung, and L. Hanzo,
“Energy efficient subchannel and power allocation for software-defined
heterogeneous VLC and RF networks,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun.,
vol. 36, no. 3, pp. 658–670, Mar. 2018.
[114] N. Ghosh, K. Maity, R. Paul, and S. Maity, “Outlier detection in sensor
data using machine learning techniques for IoT framework and wireless
sensor networks: A brief study,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Appl. Mach. Learn.
(ICAML), 2019, pp. 187–190.
[115] S. Yin, S. Zhao, Y. Zhao, and F. R. Yu, “Intelligent trajectory design in
UAV-aided communications with reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans.
Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 8, pp. 8227–8231, Aug. 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JIOT.2021.3053088
GUO et al.: ENABLING MASSIVE IoT TOWARD 6G: COMPREHENSIVE SURVEY 11915
[116] T. Yan, Y. Zhang, and B. Wang, “Path planning for mobile robot’s
continuous action space based on deep reinforcement learning,” in
Proc. Int. Conf. Big Data Artif. Intell. (BDAI), Beijing, China, 2018,
pp. 42–46.
[117] V. Mnih et al., “Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning,” 2013.
[Online]. Available: arXiv:1312.5602.
[118] C. Desjardins and B. Chaib-Draa, “Cooperative adaptive cruise control:
A reinforcement learning approach,” IEEE Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst.,
vol. 12, no. 4, pp. 1248–1260, Dec. 2011.
[119] R. Kalantari, M. Motro, J. Ghosh, and C. Bhat, “A distributed, collec-
tive intelligence framework for collision-free navigation through busy
intersections,” in Proc. IEEE 19th Int. Conf. Intell. Transp. Syst. (ITSC),
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2016, pp. 1378–1383.
[120] D. Moriarty and P. Langley, “Learning cooperative lane selection strate-
gies for highways,” in Proc. 15th Nat. Conf. Artif. Intell. 10th Innovat.
Appl. Artif. Intell. Conf., 1998, pp. 684–691.
[121] D. Zhang, X. Han, and C. Deng, “Review on the research and practice
of deep learning and reinforcement learning in smart grids,” CSEE J.
Power Energy Syst., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 362–370, Sep. 2018.
[122] X. Lu, X. Xiao, L. Xiao, C. Dai, M. Peng, and H. V. Poor,
“Reinforcement learning-based microgrid energy trading with a
reduced power plant schedule,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 6,
pp. 10728–10737, Dec. 2019.
[123] E. Foruzan, L.-K. Soh, and S. Asgarpoor, “Reinforcement learning
approach for optimal distributed energy management in a microgrid,”
IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 33, no. 5, pp. 5749–5758, Sep. 2018.
[124] H. Wang, T. Huang, X. Liao, H. Abu-Rub, and G. Chen,
“Reinforcement learning in energy trading game among smart
microgrids,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 63, no. 8, pp. 5109–5119,
Aug. 2016.
[125] H. Li, Z. Wan, and H. He, “Constrained EV charging scheduling based
on safe deep reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 11,
no. 3, pp. 2427–2439, May 2020.
[126] R. Deng, Z. Yang, M.-Y. Chow, and J. Chen, “A survey on demand
response in smart grids: Mathematical models and approaches,” IEEE
Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 570–582, Jun. 2015.
[127] C. Zhang, P. Patras, and H. Haddadi, “Deep learning in mobile and
wireless networking: A survey,” IEEE Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 21,
no. 3, pp. 2224–2287, 3rd Quart., 2019.
[128] F. Tschorsch and B. Scheuermann, “Bitcoin and beyond: A technical
survey on decentralized digital currencies,” IEEE Commun. Surveys
Tuts., vol. 18, no. 3, pp. 2084–2123, 3rd Quart., 2016.
[129] Y. Liu, F. R. Yu, X. Li, H. Ji, and V. C. M. Leung, “Blockchain and
machine learning for communications and networking systems,” IEEE
Commun. Surveys Tuts., vol. 22, no. 2, pp. 1392–1431, 2nd Quart.,
2020.
[130] K. Yang, X. Jia, and K. Ren, “Secure and verifiable policy update
outsourcing for big data access control in the cloud,” IEEE Trans.
Parallel Distrib. Syst., vol. 26, no. 12, pp. 3461–3470, Dec. 2015.
[131] S. Guo, X. Hu, S. Guo, X. Qiu, and F. Qi, “Blockchain meets edge com-
puting: A distributed and trusted authentication system,” IEEE Trans.
Ind. Informat., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 1972–1983, Mar. 2020.
[132] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao, and Q. Wu, “Blockchain-based
secure spectrum trading for unmanned-aerial-vehicle-assisted cellular
networks: An operator’s perspective,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 7,
no. 1, pp. 451–466, Jan. 2020.
[133] Y. Choi and I.-G. Lee, “Game theoretical approach of blockchain-based
spectrum sharing for 5G-enabled IoTs in dense networks,” in Proc.
IEEE 90th Veh. Technol. Conf. (VTC-Fall), Honolulu, HI, USA, 2019,
pp. 1–6.
[134] S. Han and X. Zhu, “Blockchain based spectrum sharing algorithm,” in
Proc. IEEE 19th Int. Conf. Commun. Technol. (ICCT), Xi’an, China,
2019, pp. 936–940.
[135] Z. Zhou, X. Chen, Y. Zhang, and S. Mumtaz, “Blockchain-empowered
secure spectrum sharing for 5G heterogeneous networks,” IEEE Netw.,
vol. 34, no. 1, pp. 24–31, Jan./Feb. 2020.
[136] Y. Zhu, G. Zheng, and K.-K. Wong, “Blockchain-empowered decen-
tralized storage in air-to-ground industrial networks,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3593–3601, Jun. 2019.
[137] G. Zyskind, O. Nathan, and A. S. Pentland, “Decentralizing
privacy: Using blockchain to protect personal data,” in Proc.
IEEE Security Privacy Workshops, San Jose, CA, USA, 2015,
pp. 180–184.
[138] R. Li, T. Song, B. Mei, H. Li, X. Cheng, and L. Sun, “Blockchain
for large-scale Internet of Things data storage and protection,”
IEEE Trans. Services Comput., vol. 12, no. 5, pp. 762–771,
Sep./Oct. 2019.
[139] M. A. Khan and K. Salah, “IoT security: Review, blockchain solu-
tions, and open challenges,” Future Gener. Comput. Syst., vol. 82,
pp. 395–411, May 2018.
[140] A. Azaria, A. Ekblaw, T. Vieira, and A. Lippman, “MedRec: Using
blockchain for medical data access and permission management,” in
Proc. 2nd Int. Conf. Open Big Data (OBD), Vienna, Austria, 2016,
pp. 25–30.
[141] A. Ramachandran and D. M. Kantarcioglu, “Using blockchain and
smart contracts for secure data provenance management,” 2017.
[Online]. Available: http://arxiv.org/abs/1709.10000.
[142] Y. Zhang, S. Kasahara, Y. Shen, X. Jiang, and J. Wan,
“Smart contract-based access control for the Internet of
Things,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 1594–1605,
Apr. 2019.
[143] A. S. Omar and O. Basir, “Identity management in IoT networks using
blockchain and smart contracts,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Internet
Things (iThings) IEEE Green Comput. Commun. (GreenCom) IEEE
Cyber Phys. Soc. Comput. (CPSCom) IEEE Smart Data (SmartData),
Halifax, NS, Canada, 2018, pp. 994–1000.
[144] E. S. Kang, S. J. Pee, J. G. Song, and J. W. Jang, “A blockchain-
based energy trading platform for smart homes in a microgrid,” in
Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Comput. Commun. Syst. (ICCCS), Nagoya, Japan,
2018, pp. 472–476.
[145] F. Guo, F. R. Yu, H. Zhang, H. Ji, M. Liu, and V. C. M. Leung,
“Adaptive resource allocation in future wireless networks with
blockchain and mobile edge computing,” IEEE Trans. Wireless
Commun., vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 1689–1703, Mar. 2020.
[146] J. Pan, J. Wang, A. Hester, I. Alqerm, Y. Liu, and Y. Zhao, “Edgechain:
An edge-IoT framework and prototype based on blockchain and smart
contracts,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 4719–4732,
Jun. 2019.
[147] K. Salah, M. H. U. Rehman, N. Nizamuddin, and A. Al-
Fuqaha, “Blockchain for AI: Review and open research
challenges,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 10127–10149,
2019.
[148] C. Qiu, H. Yao, X. Wang, N. Zhang, F. R. Yu, and D. Niyato,
“AI-chain: Blockchain energized edge intelligence for beyond
5G networks,” IEEE Netw., vol. 34, no. 6, pp. 62–69,
Nov./Dec. 2020.
[149] A. Jäschke and F. Armknecht, “Unsupervised machine learning on
encrypted data,” in Selected Areas in Cryptography (SAC), C. Cid
and M. J. Jacobson Jr., Eds. Cham, Switzerland: Springer, 2019,
pp. 453–478.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:10:47 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <FEFF005500740069006c0069006300650020006500730074006100200063006f006e0066006900670075007200610063006900f3006e0020007000610072006100200063007200650061007200200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f0073002000640065002000410064006f00620065002000500044004600200061006400650063007500610064006f007300200070006100720061002000760069007300750061006c0069007a00610063006900f3006e0020006500200069006d0070007200650073006900f3006e00200064006500200063006f006e006600690061006e007a006100200064006500200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f007300200063006f006d00650072006300690061006c00650073002e002000530065002000700075006500640065006e00200061006200720069007200200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f00730020005000440046002000630072006500610064006f007300200063006f006e0020004100630072006f006200610074002c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000200079002000760065007200730069006f006e0065007300200070006f00730074006500720069006f007200650073002e>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <FEFF30d330b830cd30b9658766f8306e8868793a304a3088307353705237306b90693057305f002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020658766f8306e4f5c6210306b4f7f75283057307e305930023053306e8a2d5b9a30674f5c62103055308c305f0020005000440046002030d530a130a430eb306f3001004100630072006f0062006100740020304a30883073002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee5964d3067958b304f30533068304c3067304d307e305930023053306e8a2d5b9a3067306f30d530a930f330c8306e57cb30818fbc307f3092884c3044307e30593002>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice