BlockCom: A Blockchain Based Commerce Model for Smart Communities using Auction Mechanism
BlockCom: A Blockchain based Commerce Model for Smart
Communities using Auction Mechanism
Vikas Hassija1, Gaurang Bansal2, Vinay Chamola2, Vikas Saxena1, Biplab Sikdar3
1Department of Computer Science and Engineering, JIIT, Noida Campus, India
2Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering, BITS - Pilani, Pilani Campus, India
3Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, National University of Singapore, Singapore
Abstract—Smart Communities seeks to thrive in
a context of broadband economy, its engine and
reason for being. The success of any community is
a function of its economic backbone or the sup-
ply chain. A supply chain can be defined as the
integration of customers, retailers, distributors and
manufacturers. The changing technology has made
the survival in commerce highly competitive and
price sensitive. Blockchain technology can be the
game-changer for decentralizing infrastructure and
building a trust layer for business logic. BlockCom is
a commerce model based on the emerging technology
of blockchain. This paper presents a double auction
scheme for energy trading between customers and
suppliers. A smart contract implements a distributed
algorithm to maximize individual participating profit.
Parties bid to smart contract which act as auctioneer
for maximizing the profit. Mathematical parameter
named credibility score has been created to deal with
trust issues in the decentralized network using byzan-
tine fault tolerant mechanism. BlockCom provides a
fresh perspective on the concept of supply chain and
commerce.
I. INTRODUCTION
Smart communities seeks balance between the
local economy and globalization. Regardless of the
size of the community, whether large or small, the
objective is to improve its competitiveness in trade
and global economy. Information and communi-
cations technology is used to build efficient trade
mechanism or supply chain.
Supply chain over the year has evolved to max-
imize service for all the involved nodes while
effectively minimizing system wide costs [1]. Main-
taining security is an intrinsic factor of this sys-
tem. Over the years, the idea that has driven this
concept is network and inventory optimization.
With manufacturing capacity increasing more than
ever, there is need to define demand and to create
sufficient inventory for catering this demand [2].
High competition, price pressures, outsourcing and
shortened product cycles have revolutionized the
business landscape completely. However, they have
created the need for new flexible processes which
Fig. 1. (Top) Current distributed network of supply chain.
(Bottom) Proposed network using smart contracts which act as
intelligent negotiator and auctioneer
can blend with the new global market and current
manufacturing units [2].
Current supply chain model is based on the
vertical integration of manufacturers, distributors
and retailers. Manufacturers provide inventory of a
given product. Retailers make the product available
in the market. Distributors understand the market
and retailers fill the gap between manufacturers
and customers as shown in Fig. 1. But there are
multiple problems associated with this model. Like,
there are middlemen connecting two nodes together
and they charge a substantial fee for their service.
For example, E-commerce websites like Amazon,
monetize on the same concept. In India, as of Jan-
uary 2019, amazon.in charges a referral fee ranging
between 3 percent to 25 percent from every seller
for every item sold. Also it charges a closing fee
based on the price range of the product. All fees
is exclusive of the government taxes and referral
fee is non-refundable even if the order is cancelled.
Secondly there is need of trusted authority such
as government or notary, which has own rules and
restrictions which are hindrance to e-trading. Apart
from the high costs involved in introducing different
978-1-7281-2373-8/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:55:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
layers between the manufacturers and customers,
there are various security and quality issues also
involved. There have been various instances of
counterfeit products and product quality issues at
different levels in the existing supply chain network.
The manufacturing economy of china has reported
a direct loss of around 170 billion RMB per year,
due to the quality issues in supply chain.
This paper proposes an architecture combining
different aspects of blockchain applied to present
market condition to accomplish a system of equi-
librium while staying true to the inherit features of
supply chain as shown in Fig. 1.
Rest of the paper is organized in following man-
ner. In section II, we present the review of the
current works in direction of using the concept of
blockchain in domains other than financial services.
In section III, we propose the framework for ac-
tually implementing a decentralized supply chain
model without involving any third party governing
authority. We also focus on iterative double auction
mechanism to maximize the profit for both, namely
the sellers and the buyers. Section V discusses the
proposed architecture with the current centralized
model.
II. RELATED WORKS
Supply chain use case is challenging as there
is need of solving real business problems such
as lack of trust, standardisation. Mutual distrust is
function of multiple parameters such as credibility
of supplier or customer, shipment delays, repayment
delays. Moreover a large number of middleman
make the things complex.
The objective is “What if this could be digitized
?”. The need for these types of intermediaries (i.e.
middlemen) could be removed from the supply
chain. The solution comes up is block chain, which
is emerging technology and is under great scrutiny
to solve the problem of decentralisation. [3] ex-
plains how blockchain can help in overcoming the
trust issues. Blockchain technology became popular
with rise of crytocurrency, solving the issues related
to security [4], [5]. Blockchain is a distributed
immutable public ledger. There have been a number
of works that deal with creating applications based
on blockchain ranging from healthcare systems [6],
[7] to edge computing [8],[9], [10].
[11] presented on how the blockchain would rev-
olutionise & would reshape the consumer industry.
[12] presented a simple supply chain model based
on blockchain, to facilitate trade between a seller
and buyer. However the model considered was far
from reality. [13] makes use of a paid trusted third
party (TTD) between the seller and buyer instead of
a smart contract. This funded moderator is trusted
both by seller and the buyer. This model is more
expensive as the TTD needs to be paid both by the
seller and the buyer. [14] enhances the commerce
model in [13], by using the TTD as a moderator to
solve any disputes between the seller and the buyer.
However the issue of privacy and fully distributed
system were not resolved. J. Matamoros et al. [15]
& [16] came up with concept of trading among
multiple parties without need of third parties. N. Z.
Aitzhan et al., [17] furthur extended it using multi-
signatures blockchain and anonymous messaging
streams.
With evolution of blockchain, came the concept
of smart contracts. Smart contract is set of rules that
are followed during the transaction. Smart contracts
provided better cooperative content delivery [18].
GS Aujla et al., [19] also presented trading with
dynamic pricing model.
Although there are various works explaining the
use of blockchain in this domain, but, there is no
generic framework that can be used by supply chain
in real life by optimising the trade. We employ
the potential of blockchain to supply chain, at the
same time model an auction mechanism using smart
contracts that is quite similar to real life. The pro-
posed model eliminates need of any intermediary
and provide secure trading. The contributions of this
paper are highlighted as:
1) Double Auction Mechanism
For optimization of maximum profit for con-
sumers and suppliers, an iterative auction
mechanism is proposed. Smart Contract acts
as an auctioneer to maximize overall profit
while protecting privacy of users. In here,
smart contract is a trusted third entity that
executes the code and is visible to all the
nodes in the blockchain network.
2) Credibility Scoring
Each user is accessed based on credibility
score, trust and reputation. The proposed
model provisions smart contract to elimi-
nate the malicious or suspicious nodes us-
ing byzantine fault tolerant consensus mech-
anism.
3) Eliminating Middleman in Supply Chain
We propose a fully decentralised mechanism
for providing services or trading between
consumers and suppliers. This eliminates the
privacy and security issues and cuts down the
broker fees.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:55:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Index: N-1
PreviousHash:fd5d27b928
4d3e03a52e82d7da7gabfac484e
fe97a3580ff9088f7ace2efcde9
Hash:H1
Nonce:10
Timestamp:1542611525687
Index : N
PreviousHash:H1
Hash:b94d27b9934d3e08a52
e52d7da7dabfac484efe37a5380
ee9088f7ace2efcde9
Nonce:5
Timestamp:1542611582286
Index : N+1
PreviousHash:b94d27b9934
d3e08a52e52d7da7dabfac484efe37
a5380ee9088f7ace2efcde9
Hash:H2
Nonce : 200
Timestamp:1542612531578
T1 T2 T3 T4 T8T7T6T5 T9 T10 T11 T12
Ha Hb Hc Hd
He Hf
Hg Hh Hi Hj
Hk
Hm
Hl
Hn Ho Hp
Hq Hr
H1
B94d27b9934d3e08a52e52
D7da7dabfac484efe37a538
0ee9088f7ace2efcde9
H2 H2
Fig. 2. Description of the block created once the transaction between consumer and supplier is made. The block is propagated to
all the nodes, where the consensus is achieved using proof of work. Each block contains multimle transactions.
III. PROPOSED ARCHITECTURE
By combining the advantages of both permis-
sioned and permissionless blockchains, we propose
a new structure for supply chain and commerce.
We present a model that derives its roots form
the existing principles and propose new methods
to achieve a sustainable and feasible supply chain
model. We propose a network where a user can
enter freely without any restrictions or peer review.
Manufacturers, distributors, retailers and customers
- everyone can become a part of this network. Once
the user becomes a node of the network, he / she is
free to assume the role of a seller or buyer. There
is no specific role that a node is assigned. Everyone
is a client and everyone is a service provider.
A node has pseudo privacy. It can make a public
profile to advertise and still remain anonymous for
transactional security. Public profile is linked to
the public key generated for the node while the
transactions are linked to the private key of the
node.
Once the user is successfully added to the net-
work, he can add products to the network. Proof
of work (PoW) consensus will be used to add the
product block to the distributed ledger [20], [21].
All the mining would be performed by miners who
will receive incentives in form of cryptocurrency for
maintaining the network. All the terms of agreement
will be preserved in a smart contract that is acces-
sible only by the nodes involved. We emphasize on
using a flexible smart contract that can be modified
to cater a node’s need but still be immutable after
the signature of the participating nodes [22] [23].
Here, we have used smart contracts for optimization
of trade profit and acting as mediating contract
between consumers and suppliers.
Once a smart contract is signed by the agreeing
parties, it will be added to the network and be
identified by the mutual key of the concerned nodes.
A block containing information about the product
sold will be added to the distributed ledger. This
information is available to all the nodes for market
analysis [24].
To help develop trust in the network [25], we
introduce a mathematical parameter named cred-
ibility score for each node. It is a factor meant
to help nodes trust each other while performing
transactions. It will be calculated by the successful
and unsuccessful transactions performed by the
node and will be visible to rest of the nodes.
The credibility score thus calculated can be used
to remove dishonest nodes form the network. A
modified version of Byzantine Fault Tolerance will
be used to reach to consensus. If the credibility
score falls below a threshold score, network will
pose a challenge whether to remove the node or
not and all the nodes that have had interaction with
the faulty node (validating nodes) will participate
in the consensus.
A. Adding users to the network
When a user wants to enter the network, the
network checks whether it is a new or an already
existing user. Existing user can directly login to the
network. In case of a new user, a unique address
is generated for the network and two keys namely
- public key and private key are generated using
the key generation algorithm (KGA). Two random
and large prime numbers m,n are choosen in a
way that k = p ∗ q. Further, an integer (b) is
chosen from
[
1,φ(k)
]
, where φ(k) is the euler
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:55:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Algorithm 1 Incoming user to network
1: function Addnode()
2: initialize: User;
3: if UserAlreadyExists then
Login to the network
4: else
5: initialize: User = NewUser;
6: initialize: Address =
GenerateAddress();
7: initialize: Passord = SetPassword();
8:
9: public key, private key = Key genera-
tion()
10: Credibility Score =
credibiltyscore(User);
11: end if
12: end function
function. The great common multiple of b and
φ(k) is 1. Now, to generate the public and private
keys, KGA calculates a new parameter g, such that,
g ∗ b = 1(modk). Ones this is done, b, is assigned
as the private key and g is assigned as the pubic key
of a user. Description of adding a node to network
is explained in algorithm 1.
B. Transactions
This section presents the process of actual dealing
between the supplier and the buyers. Since there are
multiple buyers and multiple sellers in the network,
every entity would like to increase its profits. The
seller wants to sell the goods at maximum price
available, while consumer would like to buy at the
cheapest cost. Moreover the entities participating
are not assumed to be trusted. So we introduce
a smart contract which acts mediator between the
consumer and supplier. The smart contract acts as
an auctioneer, where the customers try to bid the
least price to get the stakes. On the other hand
sellers want to maximise the profit. The problem
formulation of trading is explained in the following
section.
C. Auctioning Problem formulation
This section presents the problem formulation for
dynamic pricing and to maximize the overall profit
for the sellers and the buyers. The smart contract or
we refer as aggregator (AG) facilitates trading and
can communicate with any entity (E) to establish a
real-time trading market.
The set of consumers is denoted by φC =
(Cn
i |i ∈ N),N = {0, 1, 2, . . . , I}). We denote the
set of suppliers by φS = (Dn
j |j ∈ Na),Na =
{0, 1, 2, . . . , J}
The demand of consumer is denoted in form of
vector by Cn
i . cn,min
i & cn,max
i are minimum and
maximum requirement of the consumer. AG must
provide atleast cn,min
i for normal trading. cnij is
demand of consumer Cn
i from Dn
j supplier. For
the supplier,the supply vector for ith consumer is
denoted by Dji
n. The total demand of consumer
is given in Eqn. 1. Also, the total supply by the
supplier is given in Eqn. 2. Using Eqn. 1, trade
satisfaction (Ui) for ith consumer is presented in
Eqn. 3.
Cn
i
∆
= {cnij |j ∈ Z} (1)
Dn
j
∆
= {dnji|i ∈ R} (2)
Ui(C
n
i ) = τ ln
 J∑
j=1
cnij − (cn,min
i + 1)
 (3)
Here, τ is considered as a constant > 0. The
maximum supply for a supplier is Dn,max
j . The cost
function for a supplier Dn
j given by
Lj(D
n
j ) = l1
I∑
i=1
(dnji)
2 + ψ
I∑
i=1
dnji (4)
l1 & ψ are constant cost factors > 0 which are
fixed for a supplier depending on the trust value of
the supplier.
AG, as a broker not only decides for the suitable
seller and buyer on the basis of consumer’s demand,
but also tries to maximize their profits[26]. Sellers
are expecting maximum profit, whereas the buyers
are looking for the minimum cost. To achieve an
equilibrium in the market, AG, provides a solution
that maximizes the mutual profit for both sellers
and buyers. Total satisfaction and cost function is
calculated as following. Eqn. 7 gives the problem
formulation which auctioneer has to maximise.
The bid price vector for ith consumer is Bn
i
∆
=
{bnij|j ∈ Z}. For all consumers, Bn ∆
= {Bn
i |i ∈ C}.
The optimal bidding for consumer would be
CB : max
Bn
i
[Ui(C
n
i )− payi(Bn
i )] (5)
where payi(B
n
i ) is payment made by the con-
sumer, and Rewj(S
n
j ) be the profit of the supplier.
Similarly, the bid price vector for jth supplier is
Sn
j
∆
= {snji|i ∈ C}. Aggregate for all suppliers is
Sn ∆
= {Sn
j |j ∈ Z}. The optimal bidding for supplier
is
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:55:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Algorithm 2 Functioning of smart contract
Input: Set of customers (φC), Set of suppliers (φS),
demand of consumer, bid price vector of consumer,
bid price vector of supplier
Output: Negotiated Price, consumer & buyer iden-
tity
1: while (true) do
2: Calculating optimum value of OPTmax us-
ing bid price vector of consumer and supplier.
3: if (
∣∣∣bn(t)
ij − bn(t−1)
ij
∣∣∣ == 0) then
4:
5: return bijn, i, j
6: end if
7: end while
ES : max
Sn
j
[Rewj(S
n
j )− Lj(D
n
j )] (6)
AG performs multiple iterations of double auc-
tion mechanism based on the input bid price. The
sellers and buyers update bid price vectors. The
auctioneer solves the following optimal allocation
problem OPTmax.
OPTmax : max
Cn,Dn
I∑
i=1
J∑
j=1
[bnij ln(c
n
ij)− snjidnji] (7)
The problem OPTmax is similar to Profitmax
problem defined above.
∇cnij
OPTmax =
bnij
cnij
− ηαi + ηβi
− λij − µij = 0, (8)
∇dn
ji
OPTmax = −snji + γj + λij = 0. (9)
where α,β,γ,λ,µ are positive lagrange multi-
pliers.
Based on Eqn. (8) & (9) under KKT conditions
[27] there exist linear correlations for the maximum
mutual profit. The function of smart contract is
descriped in algorithm 2.
bnij =
cnij(
J∑
j=1
cnij − c
n,min
i + 1
) (10)
snji = 2l1d
n
ji + ψ. (11)
D. Mechanism of blockchain for trading
After the consumer and supplier are decided by
the negotiator. Once both the seller and buyer are
Fig. 3. Result
satisfied, the smart contract creates block that is
digitally signed by key of both the parties. The
structure of transaction block is presented in Fig.
2. Negotiator then creates block with quantity, dis-
count amount, date of dispatch, period of arrival,
mode of transport, initial payment, repayment pe-
riod. Payment is done in form of cryptocurrency
and a block showing the transaction is added to the
network. A new block is added for every transac-
tion and proof of work is used as the consensus
mechanism. Proof-of-Work (PoW) is based on the
fact that work must be feasibly hard to compute but
easy to verify. It also provides protection against
spam or DoS attacks where every node is forced to
do some computational task. Before a new block of
transactions is inserted into block chain list, PoW is
carried out for consensus mechanism. Each mining
node competes to validate the block and validating
node is rewarded as an incentive.
IV. RESULTS
Figure 3 depicts how bidding price change for
customer and supplier. Price refers to selling cost
(Ask) of supplier. While amount refers to bidding
cost (Bid) of customer. The double auction mecha-
nism tries to optimise the maximum profit of both
by reaching at demand-supply equilibrium. Pe is
the optimal bidding price for customer. Auction
mechanism tries to converge to this equilibrium
point. Blue line denotes that as variation of total
demand curve, while pink line is total supply curve.
Figure 5 depicts customers profit is maximised
using auction mechanism rather that trading without
auction (depicted by purple line). On other hand
for supplier as the demand for supply increases
auction mechanism increases the profit of supplier.
The amount of profit for supplier increased from
orange line to total supply curve.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:55:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
This model is an enhancement to provide secure
smart communities by amalgamation of the current
supply chain with technology to achieve a realistic
platform for commerce powered by blockchain. It
advocates transparency of the transactions and non-
falsifiable nature of the distributed ledger [28] with
profit maximisation using double auction mecha-
nism.
V. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
We gratefully acknowledge the support of
NVIDIA Corporation with the donation of the Titan
Xp GPU used for this research.
VI. CONCLUSION
Buyer & supplier relationship forms the back-
bone of any community. Smarter community means
smarter economic backbone. Our model sets a pio-
neer of applying blockchain in commerce. Model
provides improved transparency, better scalability
and security. We have emphasized on use of flexible
smart contracts to provide peer to peer auctioning
without need of trusted party. To establish trust in
the network, we introduce a mathematical parameter
named credibility score which helps the nodes trust
each other. This model is a step further in inte-
grating technology with the current commerce setup
providing decentralizing infrastructure and business
logic trust among stakeholders.
REFERENCES
[1] http://lcm.csa.iisc.ernet.in/scm/supply chain intro.html.
[2] https://www.sdcexec.com/sourcing-
procurement/news/10358095/six-key-trends-changing-
the-supply-chain-management-today.
[3] E. Karaarslan and E. Adiguzel, “Blockchain based dns and
pki solutions,” IEEE Communications Standards Magazine,
vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 52–57, 2018.
[4] Z. Li, J. Kang, R. Yu, D. Ye, Q. Deng, and Y. Zhang,
“Consortium blockchain for secure energy trading in in-
dustrial internet of things,” IEEE transactions on industrial
informatics, vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 3690–3700, 2018.
[5] Z. Guan, G. Si, X. Zhang, L. Wu, N. Guizani, X. Du, and
Y. Ma, “Privacy-preserving and efficient aggregation based
on blockchain for power grid communications in smart
communities,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 56,
no. 7, pp. 82–88, 2018.
[6] C. Esposito, A. De Santis, G. Tortora, H. Chang, and K.-
K. R. Choo, “Blockchain: A panacea for healthcare cloud-
based data security and privacy?” IEEE Cloud Computing,
vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 31–37, 2018.
[7] P. K. Vairam, G. Mitra, C. Rebeiro, B. Ramamurthy,
and K. Veezhinathan, “Approxbc: Blockchain design al-
ternatives for approximation-tolerant resource-constrained
applications,” IEEE Communications Standards Magazine,
vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 45–51, 2018.
[8] Z. Xiong, Y. Zhang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han,
“When mobile blockchain meets edge computing,” IEEE
Communications Magazine, vol. 56, no. 8, pp. 33–39, 2018.
[9] V. Chamola, C.-K. Tham, and G. S. Chalapathi, “Latency
aware mobile task assignment and load balancing for
edge cloudlets,” in 2017 IEEE International Conference
on Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops
(PerCom Workshops). IEEE, 2017, pp. 587–592.
[10] Z. Xiong, Y. Zhang, D. Niyato, P. Wang, and Z. Han,
“When mobile blockchain meets edge computing,” IEEE
Communications Magazine, vol. 56, no. 8, pp. 33–39, 2018.
[11] J.-H. Lee and M. Pilkington, “How the blockchain revolu-
tion will reshape the consumer electronics industry [future
directions],” IEEE Consumer Electronics Magazine, vol. 6,
no. 3, pp. 19–23, 2017.
[12] https://dappsforbeginners.wordpress.com/tutorials/two-
party-contracts/ .
[13] https://blog.localethereum.com/how-our-escrowsmart-
contract-works/ .
[14] https://www.openbazaar.org/features/.
[15] J. Matamoros, D. Gregoratti, and M. Dohler, “Microgrids
energy trading in islanding mode,” in 2012 IEEE Third
International Conference on Smart Grid Communications
(SmartGridComm). IEEE, 2012, pp. 49–54.
[16] S. A. Abeyratne and R. P. Monfared, “Blockchain ready
manufacturing supply chain using distributed ledger,” 2016.
[17] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, “Security and privacy
in decentralized energy trading through multi-signatures,
blockchain and anonymous messaging streams,” IEEE
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing,
vol. 15, no. 5, pp. 840–852, 2018.
[18] B. Barua, M. Matinmikko-Blue, Y. Zhang, A. A. Abouzeid,
and M. Latva-aho, “On contract design for incentivizing
users in cooperative content delivery with adverse selec-
tion,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications,
vol. 17, no. 12, pp. 8418–8432, 2018.
[19] K. Zhang, Y. Mao, S. Leng, Y. He, S. Maharjan, S. Gjess-
ing, Y. Zhang, and D. H. Tsang, “Optimal charging
schemes for electric vehicles in smart grid: A contract the-
oretic approach,” IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Trans-
portation Systems, no. 99, pp. 1–13, 2018.
[20] R. Qin, Y. Yuan, and F.-Y. Wang, “Research on the
selection strategies of blockchain mining pools,” IEEE
Transactions on Computational Social Systems, no. 99, pp.
1–10, 2018.
[21] G. Bansal, A. Dua, G. S. Aujla, M. Singh, and N. Kumar,
“SmartChain: a smart and scalable blockchain consortium
for smart grid systems,” in 2019 IEEE International Con-
ference on Communications Workshops (ICC Workshops),
2019.
[22] K. Christidis and M. Devetsikiotis, “Blockchains and smart
contracts for the internet of things,” Ieee Access, vol. 4, pp.
2292–2303, 2016.
[23] https://www.coindesk.com/information/ethereum-smart-
contracts-work.
[24] H. Watanabe, S. Fujimura, A. Nakadaira, Y. Miyazaki,
A. Akutsu, and J. Kishigami, “Blockchain contract: Se-
curing a blockchain applied to smart contracts,” in 2016
IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics
(ICCE). IEEE, 2016, pp. 467–468.
[25] V. Chamola, B. Krishnamachari, and B. Sikdar, “An energy
and delay aware downlink power control strategy for solar
powered base stations,” IEEE Communications Letters,
vol. 20, no. 5, pp. 954–957, 2016.
[26] D. Friedman, The double auction market: institutions,
theories, and evidence. Routledge, 2018.
[27] S. Boyd and L. Vandenberghe, Convex optimization. Cam-
bridge university press, 2004.
[28] S. Apte and N. Petrovsky, “Will blockchain technology rev-
olutionize excipient supply chain management?” Journal of
Excipients and Food Chemicals, vol. 7, no. 3, p. 910, 2016.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:55:58 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.