A Study on Corporate Information Assets Management System Using NFT
XXX-X-XXXX-XXXX-X/XX/$XX.00 ©20XX IEEE 
A Study on Corporate Information Assets 
Management System Using NFT 
 
Giwan Hong  
Dept. of Security Convergence 
Chung-Ang University, 
Seoul, Korea 
ghd9201@cau.ac.kr
Hangbae Chang  
Dept. of Industrial Security 
Chung-Ang University, 
Seoul, Korea 
hbchang@cau.ac.kr 
Abstract— The technology outflows of corporates are 
mainly targeted at information assets containing information 
such as core secrets or technical information, which can cause 
companies to lose technological competitiveness or serious 
economic damage, so security risk management is essential. 
For risk management of information assets, the corporates 
identify the asset, classify the security level according to its 
intrinsic value, and manage and control it by applying 
differential protection measures.  As the development of ICT 
technology accelerates the change to the digital business 
environment, the protection area and assets of companies 
increase, making it difficult to identify and classify information 
assets and increasing the complexity of security risks. NFT is a 
technology that uses blockchain network to give the value of 
uniqueness and scarcity of digital assets such as images, 
trademarks, and game items, or real assets such as art, art, and 
clothing in a digital environment. In this paper, we propose a 
blockchain system that can support the integrated protection 
of corporate information assets by utilizing NFT in a rapidly 
changing security environment. 
Keywords—Blockchain, NFT, Industrial Security, 
Intellectual Property  
I. INTRODUCTION  
With the development of information and communication 
technology accelerating changes to the digital business 
environment, corporates are introducing new IT technologies 
such as cloud and artificial intelligence and switching to the 
digital work environment. In a rapidly changing industrial 
environment, the introduction of new technologies and the 
digital work environment support business productivity, 
efficiency, and convenience for companies, but at the same 
time, information assets, targets to protect and security areas 
increase rapidly. 
Generally, corporates perform risk management of an 
asset by identifying an information asset and evaluating its 
intrinsic value and possible risks and applying differential 
protection measures. Along with the digital business 
environment, the increases of information assets, objects to 
protect, and security areas intensifies the complexity of risk 
management and leads to added security threats and 
vulnerabilities of corporate information assets. Companies 
need to perform risk management from an integrated 
perspective to respond to changes in the security 
environment. 
Recently, NFT technology has been used to provide 
value to the uniqueness and scarcity of blockchain-based 
digital assets or real assets to guarantee ownership and trade 
them. In this paper, we propose a blockchain system that can 
support the integrated protection of corporate information 
assets based on the value of corporate information assets 
using blockchain NFT technology. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
A. Security Management of Corporate Information Asset  
With the development of ICT technology, many 
companies and organizations have introduced information 
systems, and most of the information assets have the form of 
electronic documents. Companies use various DRM 
solutions for security management of electronic documents 
and apply differential protection measures by classifying 
information assets to perform economic security activities. 
Information security classification are performed according 
to the evaluation model based on the C.I.A (Confidence, 
Integrity, Availability) or the corporate information rating 
model reflecting evaluation factors shown in Tab. 1 [1]. 
TABLE I.  RATING MODEL OF CORPORATE INFORMATION  
Factor Rating Components 
Cost of Information Creation(input) 
(Information Making Cost) 
Manpower 
Time 
Capital 
Level of Information(output) 
Availability 
Usability 
Level of Quality 
Novelty 
Information Utilization(use) 
Use Frequency 
Use Range 
Effects of 
Infrotmation 
Utilization 
(outcome) 
Effect of Internal 
Utilization 
Value Creation Potential 
Marketability 
Development Maintainability 
Risk of External 
Leakage 
Business Continuity 
Competitiveness 
 
B. Blochchain 
Blockchain is a technology that distributes and stores 
data between all participants through a distributed network, 
and consists of P2P network, distributed ledger, consensus 
algorithm, smart contract, electronic signature and hash 
algorithm technology [2]. Blockchain networks are divided 
into public, private, and consortium types according to the 
network and the type of user participation [3]. Well-known 
blockchain networks include Bitcoin, Ethereum, Solana, 
klaytn, Hyperledger Fabric, Hyperledger Besu and etc [4, 5, 
6]. Beyond the excessive resource consumption and 
performance limits of PoW (Proof-of-Work), blockchain 
networks are being applied to various industries with various 
algorithms and hybrid consensus algorithms that achieve 
decentralization and scalability through two or more 
consensus algorithms [5]. 
608978-1-6654-9939-2/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE ICTC 2022
20
22
 1
3t
h 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
an
d 
Co
m
m
un
ic
at
io
n 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
 C
on
ve
rg
en
ce
 (I
CT
C)
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
99
39
-2
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
TC
55
19
6.
20
22
.9
95
23
64
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:32 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
C. NFT 
NFT appears as a cryptocurrency derived from the ERC-
721 (Ethereum Request for Comment) token implemented on 
the Ethereum network, and is generated through smart 
contracts of blockchain technology and has the meaning of 
an irreplaceable token [7]. The ERC-1155 standard was then 
developed to support the functions of ERC-20 (Fungible) and 
ERC-721 (Non-Fungible) [8].  
TABLE II.  ERC-20, ERC-721 AND ERC-1155 
Token 
Standard Rating Components 
ERC-20 
It can be defined and replaced by providing contract 
addresses and token availability 
ERC-721 It is attached to digital entities using metadata, and 
is irreplaceable 
ERC-1155 It can issue both tokens and NFTs as a mixed 
standard that supports ERC-20 and ERC-721. 
NFT needs a P2P network of digital assets, distributed 
ledger, content (creatures), virtual assets, and wallets. The 
main protocols of NFT are shown in Tab. 3 [7]. 
TABLE III.  MAIN PROTOCOLS OF NFT 
Protocol Contents 
NFT Digitize 
NFT owners check details such as names and 
descriptions of NFTs and digitize the original data 
to the appropriate format.  
NFT Store NFT owner stores the original data in a database or 
blockchain outside the blockchain. 
NFT Sign NFT owner signs the transaction with the hash of 
NFT metadata and sends it to a smart contract. 
NFT 
Mint&Trade 
After the smart contract receives a signed 
transaction including NFT data, minting and trading 
are performed 
NFT Confirm 
After checking the transaction, minting is 
completed, and the NFT is connected to the 
blockchain address. 
The NFT asset market, which represents objects such as 
artworks, collections, and in-game items, consists mostly of 
six categories of collections : Art, Collectible, Games, 
Metaverse, Other, and Utility, but there are studies that try to 
study the requirements of intellectual property assets and 
patents, as NFTs and propose a layered conceptual NFT-
based patent framework [9, 10, 11]. 
III. METHODOLOGY 
We proposes a NFT-based blockchain system that 
supports the protection of corporate information assets from 
an integrated perspective against increasing security threats 
in a rapidly changing security environment. The proposed 
system is shown in Fig. 1. The system organizes a private 
network form as it requires the establishment of a reliable 
and safe network and the sharing of information between 
trusted participants. Each company performs a corporate 
information security classification that reflect the various 
value of information assets produced through business 
activities. Then the data of information security classification 
is recorded in the blockchain, and NFT is recorded in the 
blockchain network based on metadata as shown in Fig. 1 of 
assets that need protection by the security label. The NFT 
token is returned and recorded in the internal storage or the 
database of the company, and the token ID and metadata are 
embedded in the header of the document. After that, we 
intend to apply document tracking and security management 
according to the life cycle of document distribution. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
We proposed a NFT-based blockchain system with the 
form of a private blockchain network for the integrated 
protection of corporate information assets. This system is 
expected to support the periodic ownership and security 
management of document assets in a company's digital 
business environment. There are limitations in that it is 
necessary to consider the consensus algorithm and 
compensation, and to discuss specific security measures for 
the integrated protection of information assets. Future 
research will fully implement and evaluate the proposed 
system to verify the value of the proposed system, and 
further specify appropriate consensus algorithms, 
compensation systems, and information asset protection 
measures for integrated protection. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This paper was supported by Korea Institute for 
Advancement of Technology (KIAT) grant funded by the 
Korea Government (MOTIE) (P0008703, The Competency 
Development Program for Industry Specialist) 
 
Fig. 1 The Overview of the proposed system 
609
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:32 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
REFERENCES 
[1] O. Na, L. W. Park, H. Yu, Y. Kim, and H. Chang, “The rating model 
of corporate information for economic security activities,” Security 
Journal, vol. 32, no. 4. Springer Science and Business Media LLC, pp. 
435–456, 22-Feb-2019.  
[2] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. N. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, “Blockchain 
challenges and opportunities: a survey,” International Journal of Web 
and Grid Services, vol. 14, no. 4. Inderscience Publishers, p. 352, 
2018. 
[3] A. A. Monrat, O. Schelen, and K. Andersson, “A Survey of 
Blockchain From the Perspectives of Applications, Challenges, and 
Opportunities,” IEEE Access, vol. 7. Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers (IEEE), pp. 117134–117151, 2019. 
[4] B. Guidi, “An Overview of Blockchain Online Social Media from the 
Technical Point of View,” Applied Sciences, vol. 11, no. 21. MDPI 
AG, p. 9880, 22-Oct-2021. 
[5] Jin, H. S., Kim, D. O., Kim, Y. C., Oh, J. T., & Kim, K. Y., “Trend 
Analysis of High-Performance Distributed Consensus Algorithms,” 
Electronics and Telecommunications Trends, vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 63–72, 
Feb. 2022. 
[6] D. Li, W. E. Wong and J. Guo, "A Survey on Blockchain for 
Enterprise Using Hyperledger Fabric and Composer," 2019 6th 
International Conference on Dependable Systems and Their 
Applications (DSA), pp. 71-80, 2020 
[7] Q. Wang, R. Li, Q. Wang, and S. Chen, “Non-Fungible Token (NFT): 
Overview, Evaluation, Opportunities and Challenges.” arXiv, 2021. 
[8] K. B. Muthe, K. Sharma, and K. E. N. Sri, “A Blockchain Based 
Decentralized Computing And NFT Infrastructure For Game 
Networks,” 2020 Second International Conference on Blockchain 
Computing and Applications (BCCA). IEEE, 02-Nov-2020. 
[9] M. Nadini, L. Alessandretti, F. Di Giacinto, M. Martino, L. M. Aiello, 
and A. Baronchelli, “Mapping the NFT revolution: market trends, 
trade networks, and visual features,” Scientific Reports, vol. 11, no. 1. 
Springer Science and Business Media LLC, 22-Oct-2021. 
[10] S. M. H. Bamakan, N. Nezhadsistani, O. Bodaghi, and Q. Qu, 
“Patents and intellectual property assets as non-fungible tokens; key 
technologies and challenges,” Scientific Reports, vol. 12, no. 1. 
Springer Science and Business Media LLC, 09-Feb-2022. 
[11] I. E. Okonkwo, “NFT, copyright and intellectual property 
commercialization,” International Journal of Law and Information 
Technology, vol. 29, no. 4. Oxford University Press (OUP), pp. 296–
304, 22-Nov-2021. 
 
610
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:51:32 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.