Cyber Threats and Scams in FinTech Organizations: A brief overview of financial fraud cases, future challenges, and recommended solutions in Bangladesh
 
Cyber Threats and Scams in FinTech Organizations: 
A brief overview of financial fraud cases, future 
challenges, and recommended solutions in 
Bangladesh 
1st Md. Jafrin Hossain  
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
BRAC University 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
md.jafrin.hossain@g.bracu.ac.bd 
 
4th Mohona Jahan 
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
BRAC University 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
mohona.jahan@g.bracu.ac.bd
2nd Rejuan Haque Rifat 
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
BRAC University 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
rejuan.haque.rifat@g.bracu.ac.bd 
 
5th Annajiat Alim Rasel 
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
BRAC University 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
annajiat@gmail.com
3rd Mahadi H Mugdho 
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
BRAC University 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
mahadi.hasan.mugdho@g.bracu.ac.bd 
 
6th Muhammad Abdur Rahman 
Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering 
BRAC University 
Dhaka, Bangladesh 
abdur.rahman@bracu.ac.bd 
Abstract—The idea of financial systems has changed with the 
touch of applications based on information technology and came 
up with a new terminology called ’FinTech’ (Financial 
Technology). With the rising technology, Fintech has become a 
modern phenomenon. Financial organizations deal with highly 
confidential and sensitive information, including personal and 
financial data, all of which are the primary target of 
cybercriminals. Users and other stakeholders are massive in 
number, and many are not concerned about security, so they 
often find themselves as victims. The result of the study shows 
that from the perspective of Bangladesh, most of the attacks on 
the fintech industry are generated using ransomware and social 
engineering methods. It also shows that app-based Mobile 
Financial System (MFS) is the most affected sector in the 
financial system. The study provides a comprehensive 
framework, FinSec, which refers to the financial Security 
Framework to protect from cyber-attacks targeting any 
financial organization. It covers recommendations for regular 
end-users and anybody working in the financial sector. It also 
provides an architecture based on Consortium Blockchain, 
Hyper-ledger Fabric in a hybrid cloud to ensure a high level of 
security at the application level. Additionally, the framework 
proposes newer Three-Way Authentication (3WA) and 
Gamification to protect end-users. The research emphasizes 
ensuring a minimum level of training, as even after ensuring 
everything, massive damage can occur for the simplest mistake 
of the individuals related to the industry. To protect the 
financial system, from end-users to employees and user 
applications to the whole infrastructure, everything, and 
everyone should be secured. The framework hence recommends 
three subunits – Action, Knowledge, and Simulation Unit. These 
subunits protect the respective sector and, finally, end up 
protecting the fintech organizations. 
Keywords— Cybersecurity; FinTech; Cyber Threat; Financial 
Scam; MFS; Cyberattack; Social Engineering; Blockchain; 
Hyperledger Fabric; Framework; Prevention 
I. INTRODUCTION 
It is hard to envisage a nation or territory without 
sovereignty, protecting civilians from external and internal 
threats. If we consider the internet world a global region, there 
should have protectors to save its users from malicious threats 
and attacks. According to Marshall McLuhan, this region is a 
“Global Village” based on digitalized data communication 
[1]. The basic building block of today’s worldwide data 
communication system is the Internet’s invention,which made 
it feasible [2]. All services are reliant on computer systems 
because of their efficiency. 
The success rate for stealing money from a user’s account 
constantly rises. The more frightening con- cern is that 
cybercrime actors are not satisfied with targeting just one 
person. They are, however, targeting businesses, banks, and 
even reserve funds. 
When it comes to Bangladesh, it has experienced one of 
the biggest heists globally, losing almost a billion-dollar from 
the country’s reserve bank in 2016 [3]. After about a few 
years, the nation was hit by a cyber-attack that targeted 200 
organizations in 2021 [4]. 
In late 2011, a pioneer private bank, introduced the 
country’s first mobile financial service, which attracted 
massive users within a time. However, scammers randomly 
targeted Mobile Financial Service (MFS) users and got the 
massive success that 10-12 incidents of extortion via leading 
app-based Service provider were recorded every day, 
according to the officer of a law enforcement agency in 
Bangladesh [5]. 
In 2021, so many Mobile Financial Services were 
introduced, and the cases rose high that they could find them 
accurately. The study emphasizes every aspect from the end 
user’s perspective to top industrial infrastructure to find the 
best cyber-attack prevention. The research reflects that even a 
single mistake can open the door for attackers who may create 
substantial financial damage. It shows a framework for both 
individuals and organizations. The framework guides both 
pre-cautions and responses to the bad actors. So, in this era of 
the Internet and technology, cyber-attacks and bad actors can 
be dealt with by the given framework and keeping a security-
centric mindset. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
A. Fintech 
Fintech can be described as integrating technology to 
automate and improve all the services offered by Financial 
Services Companies, including typical banks, cashless service 
2022 International Conference on Informatics, Multimedia, Cyber and Information System (ICIMCIS)
978-1-6654-7327-9/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 190
20
22
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 In
fo
rm
at
ic
s,
 M
ul
tim
ed
ia
, C
yb
er
 a
nd
 In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
Sy
st
em
 (I
CI
M
CI
S)
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
73
27
-9
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
IM
CI
S5
63
03
.2
02
2.
10
01
74
67
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
providers, mobile financial services, and e-money services, 
making it easier and faster to use daily end-users. Within the 
late 19th century, two distinct fields, finance, and technology, 
combined to deliver the introductory period of financial 
globalization. 
After breaking the seed level of the fintech industry, the 
start-up which became the most successful one in this vast 
potential field of Fintech was known as PayPal [6]. According 
to Forbes, in terms of online payments, PayPal is one of the 
biggest service providers, with more than 377 million users, 
generating almost 15.4 billion in transaction costs of 1 trillion 
USD [7]. 
B. Cybersecurity 
According to Burley (2017), cybersecurity refers to, 
An interdisciplinary course of study, including law, 
policy, human factors, ethics, and risk management [8]. 
In other words, Seemma Sundaresan, Nandhini M, 
Sowmiya. (2018) portrait cybersecurity as, 
In a computing context, security comprises enterprises 
that use cybersecurity and physical security to save 
against unauthorized access to the data center and other 
computerized systems. Security, designed to maintain 
confidentiality, integrity, and data availability, is a subset 
of cybersecurity [9]. 
C. Mobile Financial Service (MFS) 
Mobile financial service refers to the App or Unstructured 
Supplementary Service Data (USSD) or Feature Code-based 
system where typical banking activities like cash-in, cash-out, 
payment, and transfer of funds can be made. 
In the context of Bangladesh, people were intro- duced to 
MFS vastly by a growing venture of BRAC Bank, bKash 
Limited, back in 2011. International Finance Corporation 
(IFC) finds that bkash has more than 23 million active users 
and conducts around 110 million monthly transactions [10]. 
The success of bKash inspired other giant companies to come 
up with their offerings to compete with bKash. Hence, the 
people of Bangladesh have seen other ventures like Nagad, 
Rocket, Sure-Cash, and Upay. 
D. Related Works 
According to Prabhu, FinTech, or digital banking, has 
been the financial sector’s most significant game-changer, and 
its expansion, on the other hand, represents more significant 
potential threat to the banking sector, considering the volume 
of efficient and high data stored inside it [11]. 
In 2018, Ioannis Agrafiotis, Jason R C Nurse, Michael 
Goldsmith, Sadie Creese, and David Upton showed a variety 
of data theft cyber-attacks on financial organizations, 
emphasizing the importance of understanding the propagation 
trends of harm so that we can predict the likely harm will be 
in future attacks and mitigate it [12]. 
Inaki Aldasoro, Jon Frost, Leonardo Gambacorta, and 
David Whyte proposed two solutions to cyber risk in the 
financial sector during Covid-19 as a growing work from 
home situation, the business institution has to adopt this 
situation as a long-term case scenario, and they have to 
concern about using public cloud and software is increasing 
[13]. 
In 2019, Jason Goldberg, a Barclays analyst, appeared on 
CNBC’s “Power Lunch” and stated that the leading banking 
technology dangers include malware, unprotected data, and 
unsafe third-party service [14]. Cybersecurity risks are 
defined by Upguard, a ready-made platform for protecting 
your institution’s confidential documents, as a series of 
fraudulent acts aimed at compromising data and disrupting the 
bank’s electronic existence as a whole. According to Saiful, 
Akter, and Zahed (2017), financial fraud activities predicate 
offenses can be reduced primarily by observing the 
involvement of local criminals and their involvement with 
foreign networks and by implementing stringent anti-
corruption measures such as digitalization and automated pro- 
cesses, adoption of a strict criminal identification policy, and 
assistance from foreign experts [15]. 
Joveda, Khan, and Pathak (2019), emphasized the 
importance of developing a conceptual framework for 
preventing cyber-crime in the financial industry of 
Bangladesh. It is essential to acknowledge how the security 
approaches in a financial framework potentially influence 
such illegal activities, consequently leading to a significant 
loss of economic development [16]. Hence, this study aims to 
develop a cybersecurity framework for identifying it. 
III. DATA DESCRIPTION 
A. Problem Framing 
This research expresses all the attacks on financial 
organizations, including mobile and regular banking. Hence, 
every case where end-users or organizations related to 
financial activities attacked attackers succeed or not is 
included in the dataset to create more considerable problem 
framing. 
B. Data Collection 
For this research, the research team performed multiple 
steps to gather information and prepare the datasets. 
1) Collecting Raw Data: Raw data were collected for 
only the domestic context very sensitively to get an idea of 
the accurate picture of the problem. The research team 
collected raw data using Google Forms and a survey; 
however, the data was confidential, so the users and 
organizations wanted to provide them anonymously. 
2) Global Data: The study uses different openly 
accessible datasets developed by proficient research teams. 
Then, the global dataset was analyzed, and it was found to 
specify the different cyberattack methods used in financial 
organizations worldwide. 
3) Domestic Data: In the context of Bangladesh, there are 
not enough publicly accessible datasets on financial services, 
especially in the rising mobile financial service domain. The 
intrinsically confidential aspect of financial transactions 
leads to the lack of publicly available statistical data. So, a 
few financial scam information was collected about 
Bangladesh by creating a Google form and taking data from 
various authentic internet sources. 
IV. CYBERATTACKS IN BANGLADESH 
The financial sector of Bangladesh is vulnerable to cyber-
attacks, and several doubts are being raised regarding financial 
institutions’ precautionary action. After processing the 
secondary data collected from different publicly available 
2022 International Conference on Informatics, Multimedia, Cyber and Information System (ICIMCIS)
191Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
sources; in the following Fig. 1 it is clear that most of the 
attack types in Bangladesh are Ransomware. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Common Cyber-attacks in Bangladesh 
Again, in Fig. 1, second most known types happened 
because of Social Engineering (29%). Then Malware is 
having a percentage of 16%, and 10% of total cases are still 
unknown. 
A. Attacks on Financial Sectors in Bangladesh 
The following Fig. 2 displays the cyber-attacks on various 
financial zones in Bangladesh. 
 
Fig. 2. Attacks on financial sectors in Bangladesh 
The Fig. 2 shows that 46% of Mobile Financial Service 
(MFS) users have been affected by cybercriminals, and 19% 
of Banking organizations, and 35% of ATM users were 
affected due to these criminal activities in Bangladesh. 
Mobile Financial Service (MFS) suppliers, payment 
processors, and money transfer companies should be 
watchful for cyber threats and breaches used in electronic 
transfers. 
B. Attacks on Mobile Banking in Bangladesh 
The following Fig. 3 displays the illegal operations on 
mobile banking or digital payment. The survey was conducted 
on the mobile banking system of Bangladesh from 2019 to 
2022. The Fig. 3 also shows that in the case of mobile banking, 
most of the criminal activities have taken place while cashing 
in. The second-largest money laundering occurred during cash 
out. Furthermore, the lowest amount of robbery took place 
while sending money. 
 
Fig. 3. Attacks on Mobile Banking in Bangladesh 
V. RESULT AND DISCUSSION 
The significant proportion of recognized incidents in 
Bangladesh is still unidentified, which is hugely concerning 
for our domestic security. Social engineering accounts for 
29% of all breaches, while malware records for 16%. 
Ransomware accounts for 10% of all cases, while Crypto 
Molecular malware accounts for only 0.1%. 
According to another study, many incidents focus on 
online services and their consumers, with most victims 
emerging from both industrialized and developing economies 
[17]. 
According to Babu, K. E. K, along with the modern world, 
the economy of Bangladesh is advancing at a fast pace, which 
has resulted in a strong rela- tionship with the digitalized 
economic system [18]. As a result, Bangladesh is also at a high 
risk of cyberattacks. Many incidents have already occurred on 
the financial instruction line in banks, corporate offices, and 
business institutions. Nevertheless, the primary data shows 
that the victim is the end-users in most cases. The study also 
shows that most of the attack occurs in the urban area, as the 
user rate is much higher than in the rural area. However, from 
a mobile banking perspective, most of the incident occurs in 
rural areas, which is about seventy percent of the total attack. 
According to The Daily Star, the main reason is that the 
users do not know the proper use of this online system, and 
they do not have a fair idea of the use of Mobile Financial 
Service (MFS) and hacking procedures [19]. The research 
shows that attackers mainly use social engineering on the end-
users to manipulate them in most cases. Besides, they also use 
Ransomware, a Malware type of attack on the business 
organization. 
Another report in The Daily Star expresses that the matter 
of concern is that the organization does not know the kind of 
attack and how it is occurring in most cases [20]. As a result, 
they cannot guide their customers in systematic ways. The 
research team also found that, in mobile banking sectors, most 
of the attacks happen when the user goes for cash in their 
account rather than cash out and sends money, and it is an 
alarming scenario for Bangladesh. 
VI. SOLUTIONS 
A. Proposed Framework 
 
Fig. 4. Proposed “FinSec Framework” 
 
2022 International Conference on Informatics, Multimedia, Cyber and Information System (ICIMCIS)
192Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
The study provides a comprehensive framework to secure 
everyone related to the FinTech industry. The name of the 
proposed framework is “FinSec Framework,” which stands 
for “FinTech Security Framework” shows in Fig. 4. The 
central diagram of the FinSec framework is added in the 
following section. The Fig. 4 also refers to the work process 
model of the Fintech Security (FinSec) Framework. 
B. Short Description of FinSec Franework 
There are mainly three different units in the frame- work 
which are sequential – 
1) Action Unit 
2) Knowledge Unit and 
3) Simulation unit 
 
Again, every unit also consists of different sub- units. The 
first unit, the action unit, contains three subunits – Human 
Factors, Digital Infrastructure, and Physical Infrastructure. 
Human factors also have three types of humans – End-Users, 
Merchants, and Employees of the financial organizations. 
Additionally, the knowledge unit has two subunits named 
Potential Threats Study and Update and Up- grade subunits. 
Lastly, the simulation unit contains subunits named – Attacks 
Simulations and Forensic Analysis. 
In terms of the work process of the framework, the action 
unit is the core part of the overall framework. First, the 
framework secures the action unit using different 
methodologies to secure the physical and digital infrastructure 
and train the Human factors. 
After securing the action unit, the knowledge unit keeps 
researching potential threats for future cyber-attacks and 
update or upgrade the system according to the result. 
Lastly, the simulation unit is dedicated to attacking 
simulation and penetration testing. Nevertheless, even after 
ensuring every level of security, if damage happens due to 
cyberattacks, a dedicated subunit forensic analysis is here to 
report and research the incident. 
C. Action Unit 
The action unit is the core part of the proposed FinTech 
Security Framework. If it is closely observed, it would be 
clear that there are mainly three major factors related to the 
industry. The research team says these as – 
• Human Factors 
• Digital Infrastructure factors and 
• Physical Infrastructure factors 
D. Securing Human Factors 
The research team encourages organizations to adopt the 
existing security guidelines. However, the research team 
believes that the existing and proposed solutions are not 
enough as these have been followed for a long. Nowadays, 
anyone who has a trade license can register as a merchant of 
any app-based Mobile Financial Service (MFS) in 
Bangladesh. The team proposes to make sure someone has 
minimum ground-level knowledge to tackle common scams 
and frauds before registering as a merchant. 
E. Securing Digital Factors 
1) Three Way Authentication (3WA): To secure the end-
users from the scammers and a thousand of their phishing 
attacks, the research team proposes a “Three-Way 
Authentication,” 3WA, to make any successful transactions. 
To implement Three Way Authentication (3WA), a digital 
signature is required, which can be the answer to a question 
or a voice note, or any single word or phrase. Whenever 
someone opens an account, he should be asked to choose a 
category of digital sig- nature; then, he would input it as 
instructed, and the given signature will be stored in the 
authentication database. It is suggested to store the signature 
as the hash value. 
The following Fig. 5 shows how Three Way 
Authentication (3WA) can be implemented in any application 
– 
 
 
Fig. 5. Three Way Authentication (3WA) 
2) Three Way Authentication (3WA) API: The research 
team also suggests using the previously mentioned Three 
Way Authentication method while requesting an API. For 
instance, when someone is trying to pay via a third-party 
payment gateway, it asks for OTP and pin-based password. 
The following Fig. 6 shows the final architecture of Three 
Way Authentication (3WA). Moreover, it would be almost 
impossible for an attacker to breach OTP, pin code, and the 
digital signature. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Three Way Authentication (3WA) Workflow 
3) Gamification: The research team proposes a gamified 
approach to security training for the end-users, specially 
Mobile Financial Service (MFS) users in Bangladesh. The 
following Fig. 7 shows a basic idea of gamification to secure 
the community. The Fig. 7 also proposed that if an end-user 
successfully passes the security training, Three Way 
Authentication (3WA) will be optional for the user. 
 
2022 International Conference on Informatics, Multimedia, Cyber and Information System (ICIMCIS)
193Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
Fig. 7. Gamification to pass 3WA (Three Way Authentication) 
4) Operation-Based OTP: The research team highly 
suggests sending “Operation-Based OTP” from the backend 
to the end user’s mobile phone. The OTP message never says 
about the operation that will be done after inputting the OTP. 
Nevertheless, if the backend system can inform about the 
operation after inputting the OTP, it can also send the 
information on the financial activity when the OTP is 
required; then, the user would get a precise idea of what is 
going to happen after submitting the OTP. 
5) Memorable Information for Third-Party 
Authenticator: The study finds that even though peo- ple use 
highly secure third-party authenticators, the application 
cannot assure security if the device is somehow hacked. So, 
the research team suggests inputting some digits from the 
auto-generated third-party authenticator’s array of numbers. 
The digit’s position will be dynamically asked, so any bot 
cannot breach the system so quickly even though it gets the 
code. 
F. Hyperledger fabric 
The key reason to choose the platform for financial 
organizations, as it is created on the top of blockchain and has 
some essential features required by any fintech organization. 
Again, the significant advantages of Hyperledger Fabric are 
discussed here, Modular Architecture: The most significant 
benefit of using Hyperledger fabric is “Modular Architec- 
ture”. Hence, different departments of any financial 
organization can use the architecture to work together with 
data integrity and confidentiality. 
Permissioned Membership: Hyperledger provides 
permission-based membership, which can be utilized in 
traditional banking systems whether someone newly creates 
an account. 
1) According to some sources, some big giants like 
PayPal and Visa are using this technology. Nevertheless, the 
way they are using that is not available publicly because of 
security concerns. So, the real-world implementation of 
Hyperledger Fabric is already tested and ready to perform in 
any financial organization. In terms of Bangladesh, Standard 
Char- tered Bank [21], HSBC Bank [22], and Prime Bank [23] 
are using blockchain for LC or Letter of Credit. Upay, 
comparatively new MFS in Bangladesh, announced they are 
using blockchain in their app [24]. 
G. Hybrid Cloud 
The risk of using only the public cloud for any financial 
system is alarming, as discussed previously. Again, using only 
a private cloud excludes getting the higher benefits of using a 
cloud. 
Hence, the study proposes to use a hybrid cloud to build 
robust, secure, and comprehensive Digital Infrastructure for 
financial organizations. Moreover, the research team suggests 
keeping persistent volume and other confidential data like 
digital signatures and user details in the private cloud for better 
security purposes. 
H. Physical Infrastructure 
Though in the proposed hybrid cloud architecture, the 
security of cloud devices relies on the cloud provider; 
however, security of physical devices in private, on-premises 
cloud and all the devices of any employees are mandatory to 
protect from any cyber-attacks. The research acknowledges 
the existing security methods for protecting physical 
infrastructures. Moreover, the study emphasizes the following 
ones – 
I. Securing Physical Factors 
1) Authorized Vendor: It is recommended is to buy 
devices only from the authorized vendors, even if it is a single 
modem or printer for any sub-branch of the Bank. Every 
device’s authenticity should be verified. 
2) NGFW: NGFW or Next-Generation Firewalls protects 
devices and networks by implementing application 
monitoring, awareness and controls, integrated prevention, 
and special threat intelligence dedicated to a cloud platform. 
These features are not available in regular firewall. 
3) NGIPS: NGIPS refers to “Next-Generation Intrusion 
Prevention System” which protects devices and networks 
from various known-unknown, zero-day threats. 
4) Insider Threats: A financial company cannot make it 
fully secure without getting rid of insider threats, who have 
access to the system or critical information. Hence, the 
company should always keep severe concerns regarding this 
issue. 
J. Knowledge Unit 
The research team believes that it is almost im- possible 
to keep the security framework up to date without having a 
dedicated knowledge unit. Knowledge Unit consists of – 
• Potential Threats Study 
• Upgrade and Update 
1) Potential Threats Study: Cyberattackers or scammers 
have colossal time to learn about different cyber-attacks 
outside the country. This is why the research team highly 
recommends establishing a dedicated team that will mainly 
study the trending cyber-attacks and case studies to take 
precautions before getting attacked. 
2) Upgrade and Update: According to the outcome of the 
threat analysis, the research team suggests implementing an 
upgrade to the system. It is also suggested to update only 
those patches which passed all the test cases. 
K. Simulation Unit 
The simulation unit keeps the framework up to date by 
simulating attacks and researching forensic analysis. The 
simulation Unit consists of – 
1) Attacks Simulation: One of the most significant issues 
with Bangladeshi Financial organizations is that few 
organizations have a dedicated security team. The research 
team highly suggests creating a secret pen-testing team to 
evaluate the system. 
2022 International Conference on Informatics, Multimedia, Cyber and Information System (ICIMCIS)
194Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2) Forensic Analysis: While managing the vast digital 
and physical infrastructures and massive human factors, it is 
not impossible to experience damage or attacks in any 
portion. So, a forensic team must analyze the failures or 
problems and the footprint of the attacks. 
The research team suggests the following Fig. 8 as a 
security team for every organization. 
 
Fig. 8. Proposed Security Team 
VII. CONCLUSION 
With the revolution of Fintech, thoughts on framework for 
banking and other financial services has changed. Technology 
has reached a state where any- one can send money or make 
payments anywhere with a few clicks. Nevertheless, the fact 
is that most end-users are not always concerned about the 
security of their personal and financial data. Even from a 
professional’s perspective, ensuring all the best practices to 
secure the system is not always possible. The study reflects all 
these boundaries and suggests a comprehensive and robust 
framework, FinSec, to keep the digital financial sector safe 
and prepared for cyberattacks. In the context of Bangladesh, 
the study especially emphasizes training people, whether he is 
a regular end-user or an industry personnel, as the slightest 
mistake can lead to substantial financial damage not only on 
the personal level but also directly on the national economy. 
REFERENCES 
[1] E. Georgiadou, “Marshall mcluhan’s “global village” and the internet,” 
Canterbury, Yayımlanmamıs¸ Yu¨ksek Lisans Tezi., vol. 10, 1995. 
[2] L. Kleinrock, “An early history of the internet [history of 
communications],” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 48, no. 8, 
pp. 26–36, 2010. 
[3] T. Desk, “When north korean hackers almost 
pulled off a billion-dollar heist from bangladesh bank,”The 
Daily  Star, 06 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.thedailystar.net/toggle/news/when-north-korean-hackers-
almost-pulled-billion-dollar-heist- bangladesh-bank-2115317 
[4] “Cyber attacks hit over 200 organizations including bangladesh 
bank, btrc,” Dhaka Tribune, 04 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://archive.dhakatribune.com/bangladesh/ 2021/04/02/cyber-
attacks-hit-over-200-organizations- including-bangladesh-bank-btrc 
[5] T. Report, “Dmp arrests 9 members of a bkash fraud ring,” 
The Business Standard, 10 2020. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.tbsnews.net/bangladesh/crime/dmp- arrests-9-members-
bkash-fraud-ring-146305 
[6] R. Shevlin, “PayPal’s Domination Of Mobile Payments Is Coming 
To An End,” Forbes, 07 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.forbes.com/sites/ronshevlin/2021/07/ 13/paypals-
domination-of-mobile-payments-is-coming-to- an-
end/?sh=6793da402e6d 
[7] L. Hoory, “Paypal vs. venmo 2022: Which one is best for you?” 
Forbes Advisor, 09 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.forbes.com/advisor/business/paypal-vs-venmo/ 
[8] M. Bishop, D. Burley, S. Buck, J. J. Ekstrom, L. Futcher, D. Gibson, 
E. K. Hawthorne, S. Kaza, Y. Levy, H. Mattord et al., “Cybersecurity 
curricular guidelines,” in IFIP World Conference on Information 
Security Education. Springer, 2017, pp. 15–16. 
[9] P. Seemma, S. Nandhini, and M. Sowmiya, “Overview of cy- ber 
security,” International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer 
and Communication Engineering, vol. 7, no. 11, pp. 125–128, 2018. 
[10] I.   BUSINESS   CASE   STUDY,   “bkash   ifc investment  
-  international  finance  corporation,” The Daily Star, 03 2021. 
[Online]. Available: https://www.ifc.org/wps/wcm/connect/62b9cc8b-
419c-433d-bf10-e880a2559d09/bKash Builtforchangereport.pdf? 
MOD=AJPERES&CVID=lv1KPMb 
[11] V. Prabhu, “Security Challenges Within the FinTech Sector,” 05 2021. 
[Online]. Available: https://www.itproportal.com/ features/security-
challenges-within-the-fintech-sector/ 
[12] I. Agrafiotis, J. R. Nurse, M. Goldsmith, S. Creese, and D. Upton, 
“A taxonomy of cyber-harms: Defining the im- pacts of cyber-attacks 
and understanding how they propa- gate,” Journal of Cybersecurity, 
vol. 4, no. 1, p. tyy006, 2018. 
[13] I. Aldasoro, J. Frost, L. Gambacorta, D. Whyte et al., “Covid-19 and 
cyber risk in the financial sector,” Bank for International Settlements, 
Tech. Rep., 2021. 
[14] J. Goldberg, “Biggest Threats To Cyber Security In Banking: 
Safe Fintech Solutions,” 05 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://innovecs.com/blog/biggest- threats-to-cyber-security-in-
banking-safe-fintech-solutions/ 
[15] M. S. Islam, S. A. Eva, and M. Z. Hossain, “Predicate offences of 
money laundering and anti money laundering practices in bangladesh 
among south asian countries.” Stud- ies in Business & Economics, vol. 
12, no. 3, 2017. 
[16] N. Joveda, M. T. Khan, and A. Pathak, “Cyber laundering: a threat to 
banking industries in bangladesh: in quest of effective legal framework 
and cyber security of financial information,” International Journal of 
Economics and Fi- nance, vol. 11, no. 10, pp. 54–65, 2019. 
[17] Y. Namestnikov, “Cybercriminals vs financial in- stitutions in 
2018: What to expect,” 10 2019. [Online]. Available: 
https://securelist.com/cybercriminals- vs-financial-institutions/83370/ 
[18] K.-E.-K. (Babu), “Cyber Security in the Global Village and 
Challenges for Bangladesh: An Overview on Legal Context,” 
Cybersecurity, Privacy and Freedom Protection in the Connected 
World, pp. 253–267, 2021. 
[19] S. B. Report, “Bangladesh vulnerable to cyber attacks,” The 
Daily Star, 03 2015. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.thedailystar.net/business/bangladesh- vulnerable-cyber-
attacks-73048 
[20] M. G. S. M. M. Islam, “Mobile financial services: Strengthen 
compliance with anti-money laundering, anti-terror financing 
measures,” The Daily Star, 01 2021. [Online]. Available: 
https://www.thedailystar.net/mobile- financial-services-strengthen-
compliance-anti-money- laundering-anti-terror-financing-measures-
2029925 
[21] M. Hasan, “Stanchart executes bangladesh’s first- ever  
blockchain  lc  transaction,”  The  Daily Star,  08  2020.  
[Online].  Available: 
https://www.thedailystar.net/business/news/stanchart-executes- 
bangladeshs-first-ever-blockchain-lc-transaction-1945733 
[22] “Blockchain for Trade Finance,” 2022. [Online]. 
Available:https://www.business.hsbc.com.bd/en-gb/ 
campaigns/innovation-digital-transformation/blockchain- for-trade-
finance 
[23] “Prime Bank becomes the first Bangladeshi Bank to execute interbank 
blockchain LC transaction.” [Online]. Avail- able: 
https://www.primebank.com.bd/interbank-blockchain- lc-transaction/ 
[24] T. F. Express, “Ucb launches digital banking platform,” The 
Financial Express, 10 2017. [Online]. Avail- able: 
https://thefinancialexpress.com.bd/trade/ucb-launches- digital-
banking-platform-1508267168
 
2022 International Conference on Informatics, Multimedia, Cyber and Information System (ICIMCIS)
195Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:48:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.