Blockchain-Enabled Intelligent Vehicular Edge Computing
125IEEE Network • May/June 2021 0890-8044/21/$25.00 © 2021 IEEE
AbstrAct
Smart vehicles are expected to be equipped 
with high-dimensional, resource-intensive applica-
tions, including platoon control, augmented reality 
supported gaming, AI-based pedestrian detection, 
fuel scheduling, and so on, catering to diverse 
user preferences and enhancing safety and effi-
ciency. These applications pose unique chal-
lenges for resource-constrained vehicles due to 
their intense computation requirements, whereas 
vehicular edge computing (VEC) networks, con-
sisting of roadside units (RSUs) and MEC servers, 
contain the capability of providing cloud-like com-
puting experience at vehicular edges while meet-
ing performance requirements in terms of latency 
and throughput. Moreover, the development of 
intelligent VEC (IVEC) infrastructure is accelerat-
ed due to rapid advancement of AI algorithms in 
recent years. However, IVEC is prone to attacks, 
including fake computation feedback, unfair or 
biased resource allocation in a VEC server, and so 
on, due to its centralized governance and black 
box computation (edge computation works like a 
black box for end users). To combat such security 
vulnerabilities, we propose a blockchain-based 
decentralized architecture to enhance transpar-
ency in IVEC resource management and lever-
age edge consumers (e.g., vehicles) with a 
computation verification option. Additionally, we 
address the unbalanced load distribution issue 
and propose a secure IVEC federation model for 
balancing loads. We also outline the main chal-
lenges and provide a brief description of prom-
ising research directions to draw the attention of 
concerned stakeholders and parties in both the 
blockchain and edge computing domains.
IntroductIon
The concept of the Internet of Vehicles (IoV) [1] 
possesses potential for revolutionizing the auto-
motive industry through its diverse offerings such 
as stable Internet connectivity, and compatibility 
with smart devices, edge, and cloud competency, 
among others. IoV, being an integral part of smart 
cities, enables smart vehicles to interact with 
almost everything, referred to as vehicle-to-ev-
erything (V2X), through heterogeneous networks 
in order to enhance on-road safety and cater 
for myriad infotainment preferences of vehicle 
users. Additionally, IoV leverages distinct business 
opportunities to vendor organizations in terms of 
connectivity and data analytics.
Next-generation smart vehicles are embedded 
with a multitude of resource-intensive artificial 
intelligence (AI) [2] applications, ranging from 
pedestrian detection to fuel scheduling. In con-
trast, each vehicle utilizes various onboard sensors 
(e.g., lidar, dashcam, ultrasound, and radar) to 
operate different autonomous tasks effectively. It 
is expected that every smart vehicle will generate 
approximately 100 TB of data in every eight-hour 
ride (https://www.dxc.technology/auto/insights); 
on the other hand, each vendor is projected to 
be operating in the Zetta scale by 2028 (https://
datacenterfrontier.com/rolling-zettabytes-quan-
tifying-the-data-impact-of-connected-cars/) due 
to such a gigantic generation rate. Uploading 
this enormous volume of data to the cloud is 
not efficient in terms of bandwidth and latency. 
Nevertheless, every piece of data is not essential 
enough for incurring storage burden. Also, the 
computation demanding implanted AI applica-
tions of smart vehicles serve as the primary con-
sumer of such sensor data. In this regard, the IoV 
edge infrastructure, consisting of roadside units 
(RSUs), access points (APs), along with a mobile 
edge computing (MEC) [3] server, can facilitate 
smart vehicles with cloud-like computation capa-
bility through performing resource-intensive com-
putations and analytics at edges while conforming 
with application-specific latency and quality of 
service (QoS) requirements. 
With the rapid development of machine learn-
ing algorithms together with hardware advance-
ment, accelerating the deployment of AI in MEC 
will enable edge servers to make autonomous 
decisions in dynamic environments, thus creating 
the notion of intelligent edge. In recent years, AI 
has been used in MEC for resource management 
[4], energy management [5], traffic offloading [6], 
and edge caching [7], to name a few; however, 
the existing literature lacks in analyzing the secu-
rity issues related to intelligent edge infrastructure 
in terms of transparency and fairness. The situa-
tion is exacerbated in the IoV ecosystem as most 
stakeholders (e.g., a vehicle, RSU, and AP) are rel-
ative strangers to each other. Moreover, the edge 
computing service works like a black box for 
service consumers (e.g., vehicles). Additionally, 
RSUs and APs, despite being semi-trusted entities 
in the intelligent vehicular edge computing (IVEC) 
infrastructure, serve as a communication gate-
way between vehicles and MEC. Furthermore, 
the MEC orchestration is usually central, which 
poses the threat of a single point of failure and 
Blockchain-Enabled Intelligent Vehicular Edge Computing
Shafkat Islam, Shahriar Badsha, Shamik Sengupta, Hung La, Ibrahim Khalil, and Mohammed Atiquzzaman
AI-EMPOWERED MOBILE EDGE COMPUTING IN THE  
INTERNET OF VEHICLES
Digital Object Identifier:
10.1109/MNET.011.2000554
Shafkat Islam, Shahriar Badsha, Shamik Sengupta, and Hung La are with the University of Nevada Reno; Ibrahim Khalil is with RMIT;  
Mohammed Atiquzzaman is with the University of Oklahoma 
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   125ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   125 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • May/June 2021126
unfair or biased resource allocation. Hence, IVEC 
is prone to attacks such as fake/forged feedback 
and unfair bias due to lack of transparency in the 
network.
Although the emergence of blockchain tech-
nology was initially dominated by cryptocurren-
cy [8], over time, blockchain has manifested 
its diverse utility in cyber-physical systems [9], 
ride sharing [10], and the Internet of Things [11, 
12], among others. Blockchain, a distributed led-
ger technology, privileges users with different 
features such as provenance, non-repudiation, 
decentralized governance, and tamper-proof led-
ger. Hence, any system built on blockchain tech-
nology exhibits a decentralized coordination and 
storage mechanism, without a central control-
ler, through tamper-resistant distributed ledger 
update policies. Essentially, cryptocurrency and 
IVEC display some common kinds of problem 
scenarios. For instance, RSUs, APs, vehicles, and 
MEC servers in IVEC do not contain default trust 
during the peer-to-peer connection establish-
ment process. However, deployment of block-
chain technology in IVEC remains a challenging 
task due to scalability, encryption/decryption 
latency, communication overhead, storage bur-
den, power consumption, and so on, as most 
vehicular edge infrastructure is resource-con-
strained. Hence, enormous research effort is 
required to develop lightweight IVEC blockchain 
architecture for enhancing trust within divergent 
entities of the IVEC ecosystem through incorpo-
rating verifiability and provenance.
The goal of this article is to investigate security 
vulnerabilities of IVEC infrastructure in terms of 
its centralized governance and black box com-
putation property. Specifically, we propose a 
blockchain-based decentralized IVEC architec-
ture and also present research challenges, scope, 
and exciting research directions in this domain. 
Additionally, we propose a secure VEC fed-
eration architecture for balancing computation 
loads on distributed VEC servers. Furthermore, 
decentralized service processing flow protocol 
is introduced for the elimination of centralized 
governance.
overvIew of Ivec ArchItecture
This section outlines typical IVEC architecture 
along with its divergent applications and threat 
model.
Ivec ArchItecture
Figure 1 illustrates the traditional IoV architecture, 
which consists of multiple RSUs and APs, MEC 
and cloud servers, and vehicles. The MEC serv-
er contains the computation resources, where-
as RSUs and APs serve as gateways between 
vehicles and MEC. Multiple RSUs/APs share the 
resources of a single MEC server to ensure cost 
effectiveness and efficient usage. Typically, vehi-
cles and other roadside equipment (e.g., street 
cameras) are primary consumers of MEC resourc-
es. Vehicles communicate with the nearest RSU/
AP and request hosting its computation at the 
MEC server. The corresponding AP/RSU forwards 
the request to the server for further processing. In 
a typical architecture, the MEC server is orches-
trated by a controller that allocates computation 
resources (CPU time, CPU core, etc.) for each 
request. In IVEC, a trained machine learning pol-
icy is utilized for allocating resources in dynamic 
environments.
threAt Model
Understanding the probable threats in IVEC is 
mandatory to devise countermeasures and defend 
IVEC from cyber-attacks. The possible attack vec-
tors are stated in the following sections.
Fake/Forged Feedback: In IVEC, RSUs/APs 
work as gateways, whereas in a vehicular ad hoc 
network (VANET) [13] RSUs/APs are considered 
as semi-trusted entities. The RSUs/APs usually relay 
service requests and computation results between 
vehicles and edge servers. Moreover, edge com-
puting is considered as black box computing since 
the clients (e.g., vehicles) do not have access to the 
computation process. Hence, adversaries might tar-
get vulnerable RSUs/APs to manipulate computa-
tion results, which may have severe consequences 
in the operation of the service-requesting vehicle. 
This type of attack exploits the lack of verifiability 
and transparency in the system.
Free Riding: Free riding means providing fake 
computation results to clients without perform-
ing any computation due to a lack of available 
resources. This type of adversarial attack is con-
ducted by the server controller to gain excessive 
incentives (e.g., monetary value). This can also 
lead to severe consequences for the client’s vehi-
cle. Such attacks are prevalent due to the cen-
tralized orchestration process and the absence 
of appropriate resource orchestration monitoring 
mechanisms.
Unfair or Biased Resource Allocation: Unfair 
or biased resource allocation is defined as provid-
ing additional privilege (in terms of computation 
resources in the server) to specific clients while 
violating the regulations of resource allocation 
policy. This type of discrimination can occur by 
allocating additional resources for a specific ser-
vice request or incrementing allocation frequency 
compared to similar requests/clients. This type of 
attack occurs if the server controller gets com-
FIGURE 1. Illustration of a conventional IoV network.
Cloud Layer
Core Network  Layer
Edge Layer
Client Layer
Cloud Server
I2I 
Connection
RSU/ AP
MEC Server
V2I 
Connection
V2V 
Connection
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   126ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   126 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • May/June 2021 127
promised. Such attacks persist due to the lack of 
transparency in the resource allocation process.
ApplIcAtIons of Ivec
Deployment of IVEC enhances the capabilities of 
smart vehicles in various aspects. Some key IVEC 
application scenarios are stated below.
Real-Time On-Road Safety Assurance: Safety-criti-
cal data, collected from on-road vehicles and roadside 
sensors, is required to be processed within the shortest 
possible time. In this respect, IVEC can provide a plat-
form to process such data and disseminate the extract-
ed knowledge (e.g., safety message) to respective 
vehicles. For instance, an on-road traffic camera can 
offload collision/accident images to the nearest IVEC 
infrastructure for processing, and the IVEC can pro-
cess the images, detect collision/accident, and transmit 
the alert message to surrounding vehicles. Therefore, 
on-road vehicles can change lane or avoid that area in 
order to circumvent any unwanted situation.
Entertainment Services: Smart vehicles are 
equipped with diverse onboard entertainment ser-
vices such as augmented reality, gaming, and video 
surfing. These services cause high computation and 
storage burden to the network. IVEC can serve as a 
caching platform to provide low-latency service to 
end users, thus enhancing user experience.
Traffic Flow Management: In large metro areas, 
such as New York and Los Angeles, traffic conges-
tion is an unavoidable occurrence, which caused a 
loss of US$87 billion in 2018 in the United States 
alone (https://inrix.com/press-releases/scorecard-
2018-us/). In this respect, IVEC can collect the sta-
tus of vehicles in terms of speed, location, weather, 
and road condition, and provide flow management 
recommendations to RSUs by calculating the pre-
dicted flow rate through different regions. How-
ever, traffic flow management recommendation 
is a latency-tolerant application. Hence, IVEC is a 
suitable candidate to perform such tasks.
Real-Time Path Navigation: Optimal navi-
gation path calculation is an exciting feature of 
modern autonomous vehicles. It reduces both 
fuel cost and navigation time. However, the cal-
culation of an optimum navigation path requires 
the processing of a high amount of sensing data, 
which can cause an unwanted burden on host 
vehicles. Being at the edge of the network, IVEC 
can provide real-time navigation recommendation 
service to vehicles while eliminating storage and 
processing cost of resource-constrained vehicles.
Hosting Resource-Intensive Applications: 
Modern autonomous vehicles utilize AI-based 
resource-intensive applications for tasks such as 
fuel scheduling, object recognition, augmented 
reality, platoon head calculation, and convoy con-
trol. However, such applications are highly compu-
tation-intensive and cause a huge burden onboard 
vehicles, whereas IVEC can host such applications 
and provide real-time service to end users.
overvIew of blockchAIn
To understand the utility of a blockchain network 
in IVEC, we demonstrate the features and applica-
tions of a blockchain network in this section.
blockchAIn ArchItecture
Blockchain, a subset of distributed ledger tech-
nology (DLT), is a chain of blocks in which secu-
rity is ensured by connecting the hash values of 
two consecutive blocks. It is a distributed data-
base system where multiple participating par-
ties reach consensus regarding the ledger’s state 
change, thus making the system decentralized. A 
consensus mechanism, including proof of work 
(PoW) [8], proof of stake (PoS) [14], practical 
Byzantine fault tolerance (PBFT) [15], and so 
on, are used to select the block proposing node 
(miner) during each update period. Each block 
contains a predefined set of transactions that is 
verified by the miner. However, the contents of 
each transaction vary according to the applica-
tion and design requirements. Usually, transac-
tions are stored in Markle tree leaves within each 
block. 
blockchAIn feAtures
Blockchain offers some exciting features for 
decentralized systems such as immutability, fault 
tolerance, transparency, and consistency. Block-
chain possesses the potential of decentralizing 
businesses while eliminating the need for any cen-
tral authority in transferring assets within business 
participants. This attribute has attracted stakehold-
ers to deploy blockchain in diverse industries such 
as automotive, finance, and supply chain. 
Immutability: The core feature of block-
chain-based systems is tamper resistance. In 
blockchain, every transaction is validated with a 
consensus mechanism, making the distributed led-
ger tamper-proof given that any manipulation in 
transactions would be detected promptly by other 
participants. The immutability property is ensured 
by utilizing the property of hash functions.
Transparency/Auditability: As transactions 
are stored in a tamper-proof ledger, and each 
participant in the network contains a complete 
replica of the ledger, any participant can verify or 
audit any blockchain address/transaction. Hence, 
blockchain can bring transparency among net-
work participants regarding the activity of each 
participant. 
Fault Tolerance: Every blockchain-based sys-
tem is tolerant of faults to a certain extent (e.g., 
majority). The double-spending problem in the 
monetary transaction system is eliminated in 
the blockchain network through the consensus 
process. As every node in the network holds 
an identical copy of the complete ledger, data 
manipulation can be detected promptly. 
Consistency: Unanimity in the distributed led-
ger is confirmed through a unanimous consent 
process: consensus. Hence, the ledger status of 
peer nodes remains consistent throughout system 
lifetime.
types And ApplIcAtIons of blockchAIn
Blockchain can be divided into three main types: 
public, private, and consortium. In a public 
blockchain, every node is equally privileged, and 
anyone can possess the complete ledger copy. 
Private blockchain consists of authorized partici-
pants, and each participant contains predefined 
access privileges. The access permission is con-
figured based on three different matrices: read 
(access to the ledger), write (generate transac-
tion), and commit (disseminate blocks). On the 
other hand, consortium blockchain is built on a 
permissioned network where a certified partici-
pant dominates the chain. 
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   127ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   127 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • May/June 2021128
The recent advances in blockchain technology 
have attracted multiple industry stakeholders in 
deploying decentralized systems. Some of the use 
cases include but are not limited to trustless digital 
currency, smart-contract-based industry automa-
tion, trustless voting application, and decentral-
ized digital marketing. 
proposed ArchItecture
In this section, we describe a high-level view of 
the proposed architecture that embeds block-
chain network with IVEC infrastructure. We 
present the architecture in a bottom-up manner, 
starting from task offloading request to computa-
tion trading and the detailed procedure of block 
creation and addition to blockchain.
hIerArchIcAl Model
In the proposed decentralized system, we adopt 
a hierarchical architecture, as illustrated in Fig. 2. 
The bottom layer, referred to as the task gener-
ation layer, consists of smart vehicles and road-
side equipment (RSE, e.g., a street camera), which 
generates resource-intensive computing tasks for 
edge infrastructure in a continual manner. This 
layer initiates the transaction process through 
service offload request. We consider each off-
load task as a service for edge infrastructure. In 
the mid-layer/edge layer, a permissioned chain 
(EdgeChain) is formed by multiple RSUs/APs and 
corresponding edge servers within a predefined 
region. EdgeChain stores data related to each ser-
vice request, such as server resource allocation 
amount (e.g., CPU time/core), hash of computa-
tion results, and identities of related entities and 
timestamps. This chain ensures transparency in 
resource orchestration and automates each pro-
cess through smart-contract-based mechanisms 
to reduce human intervention. To balance loads 
within edge servers, an edge federation layer is 
formed on top of the edge layer. This federation 
layer consists of multiple edge servers together 
with a certificate authority (CA), while the enti-
ties form a permissioned network to store trading 
information into FedChain (a consortium block-
chain formed by entities of the federation layer). 
A description of each layer is described in the fol-
lowing sections.
servIce processIng flow
Vehicles and RSEs generate edge tasks (service 
requests) depending on their operation. Each ser-
vice request is forwarded to the nearest RSU/AP 
for further processing. We assume that each RSU/
AP is equipped with a trained machine learning 
model and dynamic resource allocation policy to 
ensure fair resource allocation for each request, 
thus making the RSU/AP an intelligent entity.   
The task generation rate of each vehicle is inde-
pendent of others. Therefore, the service request 
rate in different RSUs/APs is also independent of 
others. The server is located either at the mobile 
base station (MBS) or at the core network’s edge. 
It is assumed that multiple APs/RSUs share com-
mon edge server resources. Vehicles/RSEs and 
APs/RSUs communicate through dedicated short-
range communications (DSRC) protocol or other 
standard mobile networks.
Figure 3 illustrates a detailed service process-
ing flow. In this architecture, vehicles/RSEs, serv-
ers, and RSUs/APs are registered to a certificate 
authority (CA), thus creating a permissioned net-
work for service processing. A smart contract is 
deployed within the RSU/AP and server to auto-
mate the transaction update process. Transactions 
are stored in EdgeChain, and each participant 
node (e.g., RSU/AP and edge server) contains a 
complete copy of the ledger. Vehicles/RSEs are 
the clients of EdgeChain, and they hold the priv-
ilege of querying any transaction to participating 
nodes. In this architecture, servers execute ser-
vices, and reply with computation results to corre-
sponding RSUs/APs. At the same time, the RSU/
AP determines resource amount (e.g., CPU time, 
CPU core) and relays the response to the request-
er (e.g., vehicle or RSE). 
Figure 4 illustrates the transaction processing 
time of the EdgeChain network. In this EdgeChain 
network, we assume that the network contains 
four access points (or RSUs) along with a single 
edge server. We also assume that each vehicle in 
the network has an equal probability of sending 
FIGURE 2. High-level architecture of the proposed IVEC system.
Edge Federation Layer
Edge Layer
Task Generation Layer
Legends
Edge Server
CA
Fed Transaction
FedChain
EdgeChain
Offload Request/ 
Response
Edge Transaction
AP/RSU
Cluster NCluster A
. . . . .
Computation 
Trading
Request ID
Header
Request ID
Request ID
Request ID
CPU Time
CPU Core
Request ID
Hash of  
Computation result
Block Contents
Trading Amount
Trading Period
Header 
Block Contents
Entity IDs
FIGURE 3. Service processing flow.
Vehicle CA
Edge Server
Closest AP
Smart Contract
Transaction Pool
EdgeChain
Registration
R
egistration
1.
 R
eq
ue
st
5.
 R
el
ay
 R
es
po
ns
e
2. Resource Allocation 
4. Response
3. Execution
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   128ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   128 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • May/June 2021 129
an offloading request to the edge server. From 
Fig. 4, we can observe that as we increase the 
transaction number in the network, the transac-
tion latency is also increasing, which illustrates 
the bottleneck (in terms of scalability) of the 
EdgeChain network. To overcome this scalability 
issue, the EdgeChain network is expected to be 
adaptable with different transaction throughput 
optimization techniques (i.e., dynamic selection 
of block size and block generation frequency, off -
chain solutions, etc.), which will make the net-
work scalable to large numbers of transactions.
coMputAtIon trAdIng
The load pattern in different edge servers 
depends on the corresponding traffi  c fl ow in that 
region. However, traffi  c fl ow is an independent 
event. Hence, the load pattern for diff erent serv-
ers is time-variant, which may lead to unbalanced 
load distribution throughout the IVEC infrastruc-
ture. To combat such circumstances and reduce 
service latency while serving excessive loads, it 
is necessary to expand the computation capa-
bility of edge servers in either the horizontal or 
vertical dimension. Moreover, vertical expansion 
causes communication latency; thus, increasing 
serving delay can become counter-productive. 
Therefore, horizontal maturation is imperative 
in IVEC in order to cope with growing service 
demand rates.
Figure 5 illustrates proposed computation 
trading process in IVEC infrastructure. In the 
architecture, the idle VEC server is defined as 
the server that possesses excessive computation 
capacity compared to its service request at a 
particular instance, whereas the scarce server is 
short of computation resources to serve its off-
load requests. We assume that an aggregator unit 
is established in the CA to determine appropri-
ate matches for load balancing while considering 
other factors including distance between servers, 
available communication links, and so on. It is 
also assumed that the trading process is initiat-
ed periodically. As the federation layer’s network 
is permissioned and the entities use pseudonym 
certificates issued by CA for authentication, it is 
obvious that CA is a completely trusted entity. 
In the architecture servers, both scarce and idle 
nodes and CA are full nodes of permissioned 
FedChain, and each of the participants contains a 
complete copy of the ledger. In FedChain, blocks 
store information related to each trading event 
such as ID of trading entities, trading duration, 
and trading amount (in terms of CPU time/core, 
request amount). The participants can utilize 
this ledger for verifying whether the appropriate 
match entities are engaged in trading or not, and 
if any entity is violating trading conditions. More-
over, FedChain can also be used for exchanging 
incentives within trading parties and verifying 
those exchanges in future terms. 
consensus MechAnIsM
Two fundamental performance matrices of any 
blockchain network is scalability and robustness, 
whereas these two matrices are highly dominat-
ed by consensus protocol. The proposed IVEC 
infrastructure deploys two diff erent permissioned 
blockchain networks, EdgeChain and FedChain. 
The conventional PoW-based consensus proto-
col is not suitable in vehicular networks due to 
its resource-intensive hash calculation process. 
In a permissioned network, PBFT and PoS-based 
mechanisms are popular. However, PBFT creates 
a communication burden in the network at a poly-
nomial scale with the increase in the size of the 
consensus committee.
In FedChain, as the participants (e.g., server 
and CA) of this network are well resourced (com-
pared to other entities in the vehicular network), 
PBFT consensus protocol can be deployed as the 
consensus protocol within this network. In this 
regard, we assume that FedChain entities are con-
nected through a high throughput communica-
tion link. On the other hand, major participants 
of the EdgeChain network (e.g., RSUs/APs) are 
resource-constrained devices. Hence, deployment 
of PBFT without any modification would cause 
additional communication overhead in the net-
work. Therefore, we develop a proof of vehicu-
lar services (PoVS)-based consensus committee 
formation protocol to minimize committee size 
at each tenure. In the following, we describe the 
characteristics of PoVS, which is illustrated in Fig. 
6. In brief: 
• In PoVS, the RSUs/APs that work with integ-
rity should have a higher reputation value.
FIGURE 4. Transaction processing time in milliseconds.
FIGURE 5. Computation trading procedure.
1a. Transmits 
Demand 
Information
1b. Transmits 
Surplus 
Information
2. Aggregates demand 
and surplus information 
3b. Transmits 
Matching Info. & 
Identity
3a. Transmits 
Matching Info. & 
Identity
4a. Verifies 
Identity & 
preconditions 
4b. Verifies 
Identity & 
preconditions 
5. Computation Trading 
Initiates 
CA (Aggregator)
Idle VEC 
Server
Scarce VEC 
Server
Smart Contract
Transaction Pool
FedChain
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   129ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   129 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • May/June 2021130
• Successful service providing rate is consid-
ered as a performance matrix for determin-
ing reputation value.
• Based on reputation values, a consensus com-
mittee is formed for specific tenures, and 
each entity needs to be re-evaluated for other 
tenures to make the selection process fair.
• The PoVS protocol assumes that CA contains 
an aggregation unit (AU) that aggregates, 
calculates, and broadcasts reputation values 
for committee formation.
technIcAl requIreMents
In order to deploy the proposed architecture, 
a vehicular network must be equipped with 
high-performing edge servers along with secure 
connectivity, which are expected within peer 
edge servers with high-throughput connections. 
Moreover, the vehicular network is required to 
be capable of handling high throughput traffic in 
dense areas where a large number of vehicles 
simultaneously offload tasks to edge servers.
open Issues And reseArch perspectIve
Integration of blockchain in IVEC possesses attrac-
tive benefits such as decentralization, transparen-
cy, and verifiability. However, it has drawbacks 
as well, which need to be resolved for efficient 
deployment. This section describes the integration 
along with related research challenges in the edge 
computing and blockchain domains.
lIMItAtIons of perMIssIoned chAIn
Despite its divergent advantages, the consor-
tium (permissioned) blockchain network entails 
drawbacks due to its semi-decentralized notion. 
Consortium blockchain exhibits properties of  
centralized architecture as a certified group of 
members dominates the network. Moreover, con-
sortium chains use resource-saving lightweight 
consensus protocols suitable for resource-con-
strained devices; however, they pose the possi-
bility of committing forged transactions if a good 
portion of certified individuals is compromised, 
thus subjecting the edge computation process 
to hijacking attacks. Therefore, there must be 
further investigation of the pros and cons of 
deploying different types of chains (permissioned, 
hashgraph, etc.) in the IVEC network and adopt-
ing a resilient but scalable consensus protocol. 
In this regard, developing a robust mining node 
selection protocol for a scalable consensus mech-
anism can be an exciting research direction.
untrustworthy vehIculAr nodes
Compromised vehicular nodes may offload fake 
tasks to edge servers that may consume significant 
edge servers’ resources, impeding legitimate users 
from leveraging edge resources. However, this 
opens up multiple exciting research directions. 
One possible approach is to analyze the interac-
tion of vehicles with edge infrastructure through 
game-theoretic models and utilization of multi-
agent reinforcement learning (RL) for filtering out 
fake task requests. In this case, machine learning 
models can be applied to analyze network traffic, 
learn the pattern, and detect traffic requests from 
illegitimate users. Moreover, a reputation-based 
vehicle node classification method can be adopt-
ed to identify malicious vehicles from legitimate 
vehicles. In this regard, it is expected that vehicles 
which perform according to the edge computing 
protocol will have higher reputation value. Multi-
ple different techniques can be utilized, including 
Bayesian-network-based reputation evaluation, 
neural-network-based calculation, and so on, to 
calculate the vehicles’ reputation values.
flexIble operAtIon
Although blockchain is a decentralized system, it 
requires intervention at different stages of its oper-
ation. For instance, the block size and the difficul-
ty level of the puzzle (in terms of PoW) in Bitcoin 
relies on human operators. Moreover, in the wire-
less blockchain network (e.g., vehicular blockchain), 
block size has a dynamic relationship with transac-
tion throughput. Therefore, the static determination 
of such hyperparameters is not suitable. Hence, a 
dynamic operation mechanism must be devised to 
minimize human intervention and enhance network 
throughput. In this regard, interested researchers can 
investigate whether machine-learning-model-based 
dynamic network parameter selection in vehicular 
blockchain enhances utility (in terms of transaction 
throughput and latency) or not.
double spendIng elIMInAtIon
In the bitcoin network, double spending is 
checked by verifying the balance in the sender’s 
wallet address. This type of verification is not 
straightforward for vehicular applications. More-
over, counterfeit transactions can consume signif-
icant edge resources, which can deteriorate the 
edge computing efficacy. Hence, devising a veri-
fication mechanism in IVEC in order to eliminate 
broadcasting fake transactions is a challenging 
task. In order to formulate an appropriate ver-
ification mechanism for vehicular applications, 
analyzing the interaction of different roles in the 
blockchain network is required. Therefore, game 
theoretic approaches can be applied to analyze 
the interactions by deploying multiple different 
attacker-defender scenarios. Thus, we need to 
formulate an effective and efficient transaction 
verification method for vehicular applications.
loAd bAlAncIng
Unbalanced load distribution in an edge serv-
er causes inefficient resource utilization, as the 
overloaded server cannot serve legitimate users, 
whereas underloaded servers remain idle. Edge 
computation power can be increased in two dif-
ferent ways: horizontal expansion (e.g., edge fed-
eration) and vertical expansion (e.g., increasing 
server size/number or federation with cloud) to 
provide services to excessive requests. However, 
vertical expansion causes either deployment cost 
FIGURE 6. Illustration of PoVS protocol.
Vehicles rate 
each RSU 
based on QoS
AU aggregates the 
ratings and cluster the 
RSUs into two groups 
Groups with higher 
average rating is 
selected (Gs)
Gs is validated by 
comparing each rating 
with mean and 
variance of Gs
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   130ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   130 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
IEEE Network • May/June 2021 131
or service latency. On the contrary, horizontal 
expansion does not require deploying additional 
resources. Latency does not increase significant-
ly as services are still executed in the edge net-
work but on different servers. In the proposed 
architecture, we propose a computation trading 
model for creating edge federation at IVEC to 
minimize the effect of uneven load distribution 
and utilize most of the available edge resources 
efficiently. In this regard, the development of an 
appropriate incentive mechanism for horizontal 
expansion can be an exciting research direction 
where game-theoretic approaches can be applied 
to analyze inter-server interaction.
prIvAcy preservIng AnAlytIcs
In the proposed architecture, vehicles may offload 
different personally identifiable information (PII), 
including credit card information, trajectory map, 
destination, and so on, to edge servers for accom-
plishing different tasks. However, such informa-
tion poses the threat of revealing daily habits of 
vehicle owners, which is undesirable. Therefore, 
instead of offloading/querying to the edge server 
in plain-text, vehicles can offload/query in cipher-
text mode. However, conducting analytics on 
cipher-text is a time-consuming operation. In this 
respect, research can be conducted on quicken-
ing the homomorphic computation techniques 
to develop new privacy-preserving protocols for 
edge computation offload or querying. Moreover, 
the proposed EdgeChain and FedChain do not 
store any such PIIs of vehicle users, and thus pre-
serve the privacy of vehicle owners. 
conclusIon
The integration of AI and vehicular edge comput-
ing (VEC) creates an enormous opportunity for 
leveraging edge resources to process high-volume 
vehicular data. However, the existing works faial 
to investigate issues (e.g., bias/unfair resource 
allocation, free riding, forged output) related to 
lack of transparency in IVEC. In this regard, the 
integration of IVEC infrastructure and blockchain 
technology is persuasive due to its features such 
as immutability and auditable interaction. In this 
article, we present blockchain-based hierarchi-
cal IVEC architecture to enhance transparency in 
resource management and leverage edge clients 
(e.g., vehicles and RSEs) with computation verifi-
cation options. Furthermore, we propose a secure 
computation trading model in IVEC for expanding 
edge computation power in the horizontal dimen-
sion in order to efficiently manage unbalanced 
load distribution. We also describe security vul-
nerabilities in IVEC infrastructure and conclude 
with some exciting and state-of-the-art research 
directions in the domain of edge computing and 
blockchain.
references 
[1] J. Contreras-Castillo, S. Zeadally, and J. A. Guerrero-Ibañez, 
“Internet of Vehicles: Architecture, Protocols, and Security,” 
IEEE Internet of Things J., vol. 5, no. 5, 2018, pp. 3701–09. 
[2] N.J. Nilsson, Principles of Artificial Intelligence, Morgan 
Kaufmann, 2014. 
[3] N. Abbas et al., “Mobile Edge Computing: A Survey,” IEEE 
Internet of Things J., vol. 5, no. 1, 2017, pp. 450–65. 
[4] H. Peng et al., “Deep Reinforcement Learning Based 
Resource Management for Multi-Access Edge Computing 
in Vehicular Networks,” IEEE Trans. Network Science and 
Engineering, 2020. 
[5] Z. Ning et al., “Mobile Edge Computing-Enabled Internet of 
Vehicles: Toward Energy-Efficient Scheduling,” IEEE Network, 
vol. 33, no. 5, Sept./Oct. 2019, pp. 198–205. 
[6] Y. Wang et al., “Traffic and Computation Co-Offloading With 
Reinforcement Learning in Fog Computing for Industrial 
Applications,” IEEE Trans. Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 
2, 2019, pp. 976–86. 
[7] Z. Ning et al., “Intelligent Edge Computing in Internet of 
Vehicles: A Joint Computation Offloading and Caching Solu-
tion,” IEEE Trans. Intelligent Transportation Systems, 2020, 
pp. 1–14. 
[8] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash Sys-
tem,” Manubot, Tech. Rep., 2019. 
[9] O. Bouachir et al., “Blockchain and Fog Computing for 
Cyberphysical Systems: The Case of Smart Industry,” Com-
puter, vol. 53, no. 9, 2020, pp. 36–45. 
[10] M. Baza et al., “BRide: Ride Sharing with Privacy-Preserva-
tion, Trust and Fair Payment atop Public Blockchain,” IEEE 
Trans. Network Science and Engineering, 2019. 
[11] L. Tseng et al., “Blockchain for Managing Heterogeneous 
Internet of Things: A Perspective Architecture,” IEEE Net-
work, vol. 34, no. 1, Jan./Feb/ 2020, pp. 16–23. 
[12] I. A. Ridhawi et al., “A Blockchain-Based Decentralized 
Composition Solution for IoT Services,” Proc. IEEE ICC, 
2020, pp. 1–6. 
[13] H. Hartenstein et al., “A Tutorial Survey on Vehicular Ad 
Hoc Networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 46, no. 6, June 
2008, pp. 164–71. 
[14] J. Kang et al., “Incentivizing Consensus Propagation in 
Proof-of-Stake Based Consortium Blockchain Networks,” 
IEEE Wireless Commun. Letters, vol. 8, no. 1, 2019, pp. 
157–60. 
[15] O. Onireti et al., “On the Viable Area of Wireless Practical 
Byzantine Fault Tolerance (PBFT) Blockchain Networks,” 
Proc. 2019 IEEE GLOBECOM, 2019, pp. 1–6.
bIogrAphIes
Shafkat ISlam is currently pursuing a Ph.D. in computer science 
and engineering at the University of Nevada, Reno. He received 
his M.S. in informatics (with Distinction) from Northern Arizona 
University in 2019. His current research interests include cyber-
security, machine learning, and blockchain.
ShahrIar BadSha is currently serving as an assistant professor 
in cybersecurity in the Department of Computer Science and 
Engineering at University of Nevada, Reno. He completed his 
Ph.D. in computer science and software engineering from RMIT 
University, Australia. He was also with data61, CSIRO, in Mel-
bourne, Australia.
ShamIk Sengupta is currently the executive director of the UNR 
Cybersecurity Center at the University of Nevada, Reno. He is 
also serving as an associate professor in the Department of CSE. 
He has authored over 150 research papers. He was awarded 
Ralph E. & Rose A. Hoeper Professorship Award in 2019.
hung la is an associate professor of CSE at the University of 
Nevada, Reno. He is also the associate director of the INSPIRE 
Tier 1 University Transportation Center. He has authored over 
116 research papers, and eight of his papers have won best 
conference paper awards and best paper finalists in the top 
ranked robotics conferences (IROS 2019, SSRR 2018, ICRA 
2017, ISARC 2015, etc.).
IBrahIm khalIl is currently an associate professor in the Depart-
ment of Computer Science and Software Engineering at RMIT, 
Australia. He obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Berne, 
Switzerland, in 2003. He has several years of experience with 
Silicon Valley companies. He also worked with EPFL and the 
University of Berne and Osaka University, Japan.
mohammed atIquzzaman is the Edith Kinney Gaylord Presi-
dential Professor in the School of Computer Science at the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma, Norman. He is the Editor-in-Chief of the 
Journal of Networks and Computer Applications, the founding 
Editor-in-Chief of Vehicular Communications, and has served on 
the editorial boards of many journals, including IEEE Communi-
cations Magazine, the IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Commu-
nications, and so on.
ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   131ISLAM_LAYOUT.indd   131 6/3/21   1:02 PM6/3/21   1:02 PMAuthorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:15:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.