Blockchain technology: A bibliographic study
978-1-6654-5723-1/22/$31.00 ©20XX IEEE 
Blockchain technology: A bibliographic study 
 
Manal IZEM  
Informatics department 
IBN TOFAIL 
Kenitra, Morocco 
manal.izem@uit.ac.ma 
Mohamed AMNAI 
Informatics department 
IBN TOFAIL 
Kenitra, Morocco 
mohamed.amnai@uit.ac.ma 
Abstract—At the rate of breakthroughs and new 
technologies, the world is always changing and evolving. 
The "Economist" magazine's report on the blockchain at 
the end of 2015 helped the technology gain popularity. A 
virtual currency based on blockchain technology, Bitcoin, 
is becoming more and more popular in the media. This 
article seeks to educate readers by popularizing and 
demystifying how the blockchain works. Many industries, 
including the financial industry, starting with the banking 
system, could see their game rules altered by this 
technology. The goal of this new trust model is to 
eliminate the current trust intermediary and replace it 
with a decentralized, shared system. A brand-new era is 
beginning. In this work, we are interested in the use of 
Blockchain in different fields.  
Keywords— Blockchain, crypto-currency, Bitcoin, 
Litecoin, Ethereum, transaction, cryptocurrency, 
cryptography, internet of things. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A term used in information technology is "Blockchain" It is 
simply a shared database, with the attributes "unfalsifiable," 
"trace left," "traceable," "open and transparent," and 
"collective maintenance" for the data or information kept 
there. Based on these traits, blockchain technology has built 
a strong foundation of "trust," establishing a trustworthy 
cooperation mechanism with a wide range of potential 
applications. 
Trust is, in fact, a challenging concept. While blockchain 
technology does reduce specific, limited reliances on trust, it 
also necessitates alternative premises that may or may not be 
superior for particular use cases. Therefore, it is difficult to 
find talking points regarding the effectiveness, security, 
affordability, etc. of blockchain technology in a single line 
that are correct. It is obvious that a more nuanced 
conversation is necessary about this technology. The 
following three questions are commonly posed by corporate 
executives, government officials, investors, and researchers:  
• What is blockchain technology, exactly? 
• What functionalities does it offer?  
• What are effective applications? 
This article's objectives are to give comprehensive 
responses to these queries, a balanced introduction of 
blockchain technology that distinguishes hype from reality, 
and a helpful vocabulary for addressing blockchain-specific 
details in the future. 
                                                           
1 Hashcash: is a proof-of-work algorithm that has been employed 
in a number of systems as a denial-of-service defense mechanism. 
II. OVERVIEW OF BLOCKCHAIN 
In the early 1990s, two American cryptologists Stuart Haber 
and W. Scott Stortnetta devised a computer system that 
anyone could write but that was impossible to erase and 
indestructible. Then in the 1991s, researchers came up with a 
solution that uses cryptographic security techniques to ensure 
that all files are secured by the blockchain. Later in 1992, the 
Markle Tree technology was also integrated into the system, 
allowing multiple documents to be stored simultaneously in 
the same block. It is a pity that this technology was then 
ignored and slowly abandoned. Unfortunately, this patent 
was cancelled in 2004 because it had not been updated, only 
four years before the Bitcoin boom. Hal Finney (Harold 
Thomas Finney II), a computer scientist and crypto 
campaigner, created a reusable proof-of-work system in 
2004, called PoW (Proof of Work). The system receives 
irreplaceable hashcash 1  work tokens, which in turn create 
coins that can be transferred between users and signed by 
RSA2. 
PoW can be considered an early prototype of the blockchain, 
constituting an important first step in the encryption of 
currency history.  
The end of 2008 saw the publication of a white paper on a 
peer-to-peer decentralized electronic payment system called 
Bitcoin on an encrypted mailing list by individuals or groups 
under the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin is based on 
the Hashcash proof-of-work calculation. Compared to the 
highly reliable PoW operation, Bitcoin uses a decentralized 
point-to-point protocol to verify and track transactions to 
avoid double consumption. In short, Bitcoin "mines" using 
the mechanism of checking the work of each miner, then 
verified by decentralized nodes in the network. 
On January 3, 2009, Satoshi Nakamoto mined and operated 
the first block of Bitcoins. He also received a bonus of 50 
Bitcoins. On January 12, 2009, Hal Finney was the initial 
Bitcoin recipient and was given 10 Bitcoins by Satoshi 
Nakamoto. This was the first verified Bitcoin transaction 
ever. 
In 2013, Bitcoin programmer and magazine co-founder 
Vitalik Buterin claimed that in order to develop decentralized 
applications, Bitcoin would need to write a scripting language. 
Unable to get support from the community, A new 
blockchain-based distributed computing platform called 
Ethereum is being developed by Vitalik, featuring scripting 
functions, also known as smart contracts [1]. 
2 RSA: is a popular choice for secure data transfer and was one of 
the earliest public key cryptosystems. 
20
22
 IE
EE
 3
rd
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 E
le
ct
ro
ni
cs
, C
on
tro
l, 
O
pt
im
iz
at
io
n 
an
d 
C
om
pu
te
r S
ci
en
ce
 (I
C
EC
O
C
S)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-5
72
3-
1/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
EC
O
C
S5
51
48
.2
02
2.
99
83
28
6
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
A. Definition 
A new technology, Blockchain, is seen as a possible 
game-changer with its unique trust-building mechanism, has 
become an important direction for the deep integration of 
finance and technology. But what is Blockchain and what is 
the potential of this technology for international trade [2]? 
Blockchain is everywhere right now. But not everyone 
has yet understood what we are talking about, the 
evangelization phase is not over yet, here is a short 
explanation that can help you understand what it is and also 
explain it to others: Imagine a ledger or a digital record of 
transaction that everyone can read for free and freely, this 
ledger is decentralized, no entity controls the network and it 
is a distributed ledger. The records (users) are shared with all 
participants, without the need for a central authority and in 
which the transactions are stored in a highly secure, verifiable 
and permanent way, using various cryptographic techniques 
[3].  
 
B. Technical architecture of the blockchain 
After putting it into perspective and justifying its interest in 
the emergence of new use cases, this part describes the 
building blocks of the technology. 
I will present the products at different stages of blockchain 
before concluding with an overview of technologies and 
tools. 
In Figure 1, the basic division is made for 9 dimensions. 
Then, I analyze in detail the specific content of each module. 
Superior application 
Operation 
management 
Smart contract System 
management 
Consensus 
Ledger 
basic 
components 
Interface 
Infrastructure 
Figure 1: Technical architecture of blockchain technology 
• The infrastructure layer provides the operating 
system and hardware facilities including physical 
servers, cloud hosts, etc. for the normal operation 
of the blockchain system. 
• The core component layer implements the 
recording, verification and dissemination of 
information in the blockchain system. The 
blockchain is a distributed system, which means 
that all signed blocks are replicated across all 
nodes in the network. Like everyone else, you 
can, if you wish, use your computer to become a 
node. To do this, you need to download all the 
signed blocks so far. For Bitcoin, this is already 
more than 180 gigabytes. 
• The ledger layer is responsible for storage. All 
network participants have access to the 
distributed ledger and its immutable record of 
transactions. With this shared ledger, 
transactions are only recorded once. The ledger 
layer incorporates the hash signature of the 
previous block into the next block to form a 
blockchain data structure. The ledger layer has 
two methods of recording data: asset-based and 
account-based. 
• The consensus layer is responsible for 
coordinating and ensuring the consistency of 
each node's data records across the entire 
network, i.e., all nodes are competing to add the 
next block to the blockchain but only one of them 
will be selected to do so (and only it will be paid). 
This selection is random for each new block. This 
randomness is very important for the security of 
the blockchain; since nobody knows which miner 
will be selected. There are different ways to 
achieve this random selection of miners: these are 
the consensus mechanisms. 
• The blockchain system's business logic must be 
implemented, assembled, and deployed as code 
by the smart contract layer in order to trigger 
situations, carry out automatic rule execution, 
and reduce the need for manual intervention. 
 
Figure 2: Smart contract operation 
• Other components of the blockchain architecture, 
such as the two primary types of operations: node 
management and permission management, are 
managed by the system management layer. A 
crucial component of blockchain technology is 
entitlement management, particularly for 
authorization chains with increasingly stringent 
data access restrictions. 
• The primary functions of the interface layer are 
to complete the encapsulation of functional 
modules and to provide the application layer with 
a straightforward calling method. 
• The final component to be shown to the user is 
the application layer. Its primary purpose is to 
invoke the smart contract layer's interface in 
order to accommodate various blockchain 
application situations and provide consumers a 
variety of services and apps. 
• The daily operation and maintenance of the 
blockchain system, including logging, 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
monitoring, administration, and growth, fall 
within the purview of the operation and 
maintenance layer. Traditional platforms' storage 
modules, data models, data structures, and 
programming languages differ from those of a 
unified architecture and sandbox3 environment, 
etc., according to their own needs and locations. 
C. Field of application of blockchain 
Blockchain technology that reduces friction in business 
operations and improves efficiency is revolutionizing 
many industries. At the same time, reforms have also been 
implemented on a large scale, involving cooperative 
participants. In various fields such as finance, healthcare 
and government, blockchain has already contributed to 
industry reforms. Here are some of the endless 
possibilities of blockchain. 
• Internet of Things 
• Identifier management 
• Supply chain management 
• Financial Services 
• Health care 
• Insurance 
• Government Agency 
• Games 
• Music 
• Smart contracts 
 
Figure 3: Applications of Blockchain 
D. Why use blockchain technology 
When individuals learn about blockchain, their next 
natural question is, "Why use blockchain?" Why would you 
use a distributed ledger? In an existing digital age, why not 
employ a conventional database or historical system of 
records? 
 A blockchain is a highly decentralized system. This 
means that if two parties do not trust each other 
and want to share sensitive information without 
involving a third party, this is possible with a 
blockchain. 
 Secure: No one can change or delete any data in the 
blockchain. 
                                                           
3 Sandbox: is a closed testing environment that enables users to 
execute files or run programs without altering the platform, 
system, or application they are operating on. 
 
Figure 4: Why use Blockchain? 
 
III. HOW BLOCKCHAIN WORKS 
Let's make a simple definition and discuss Crypto-Currency 
[4] which uses the principles of cryptography to ensure the 
security of transactions and transaction control units to create 
a medium of exchange. 
Just like banknotes commonly used in anti-counterfeiting 
designs, the anti-counterfeiting of crypto-currency is a new 
type of token that uses digital currency and virtual currency 
hashing, and is linked to smart contracts. In 2009, Bitcoin 
became the first decentralized multi-currency crypto-
currency. Hereafter, the term refers to the crypto of these 
designs [5] . Since then, several similar crypto-currencies have 
been created often called altcoins4 [6] [7]. Crypto-currency is 
based on a decentralized consensus mechanism [8], different 
from the financial banking system based on a centralized 
supervision system. You are first betting on a project, a 
promise and even a business model. To help you see this more 
clearly, I decided to explain the differences between the 
different series of crypto-currencies according to their most 
logical use [9] Cryptography is the most important component 
of the blockchain. It is a field of using mathematics to encrypt 
and decrypt data [10]. It allows you to store sensitive 
information or transmit it over unsecured networks like the 
internet so that it cannot be read by anyone except the intended 
recipient [11]. Cryptography has been around for over two 
thousand years. Now, it is the science of keeping things 
confidential by using encryption techniques. However, 
confidentiality is not the only goal. When it comes to cyber 
security, there are a number of things we are concerned about 
4 The term "altcoins" refers to all crypto-currencies other than 
Bitcoin 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
when it comes to data. These include confidentiality, 
completeness, availability and non-repudiation Any 
information in the form of a text message can be called 
plaintext. The idea is to encrypt the plaintext using an 
encryption algorithm and a key that produces the ciphertext. 
The ciphertext can then be transmitted to the intended 
recipient, who decrypts it using the decryption algorithm and 
key to obtain the plaintext [12]. 
A. What are the differences between Bitcoin (BTC), 
Litecoin (LTC) and Ethereum (ETH)? 
Bitcoin 5 , Litecoin 6  and Ethereum 7  are the three main 
crypto-currencies. However, while they have much in 
common, they each have their own peculiarities. Therefore, 
we will see the difference between these three crypto-
currencies [13]. 
a) The differences between Bitcoin and Litecoin 
These are the two most similar currencies. Surprisingly, 
Litecoin is one of the first Bitcoin forks. It was developed by 
Charlie Lee and was initially released as open source on 
Github8 on October 7, 2011. The token is designed as a faster 
and scalable alternative to Bitcoin. This token is very similar 
to the previous token, but there are many important 
differences. Since the token is designed as a "lighter" 
alternative to Bitcoin, it has been modified to improve its 
speed and usability [14]. 
Some differences between Litecoin and Bitcoin are: 
• Reduced block generation time (from 10 minutes 
for Bitcoin to 2.5 minutes for Litecoin) 
• Increased total token supply  
• Different hashing algorithms (Scrypt instead of 
Bitcoin's Sha-256) 
• Improved graphical user interface 
 Litecoin is often called the "silver" crypto-currency to 
match the "gold" status of Bitcoin's "gold" status. 
The table below shows the main differences between Bitcoin 
and Litecoin [14]: 
Table 1: The comparison between Bitcoin & Litecoin 
 
b) The differences between Bitcoin and Ethereum 
Ethereum and Bitcoin are two common crypto-currencies, 
but the most important thing is that the difference is huge. 
Here are the main ones between them [15]: 
                                                           
5 Bitcoin (₿, BTC) (from bit: unit of binary information and coin 
"coin") is a cryptocurrency otherwise known as cryptocurrency 
6 Litecoin (currency symbol: Ł; acronym: LTC) is a distributed 
electronic currency, Each Litecoin is divided into one hundred 
million smaller units, defined by eight decimal places. 
• The time it takes to generate a block. Although 
Bitcoin takes 10 minutes, Ethereum is much 
faster as it only takes 12 seconds. 
• The algorithm used by the two crypto-currencies 
are different. In addition, Ethereum is more 
flexible and offers users more choice. Overall, 
with Ethereum, we can accomplish everything 
that Bitcoin can do, but we can also do other 
things. 
• Finally, Ethereum is much more focused on its 
technology, of which Ether is just one 
component, whereas Bitcoin has primarily 
created a stable currency that is primarily 
intended for exchange. 
c) The difference between Litecoin and Ethereum 
Regarding Litecoin and Ethereum, we can note that the 
differences between Ethereum and Bitcoin are similar, but 
there are important differences between the two [13]; 
• The time needed to generate a block. The time 
needed to generate a block with Ethereum is less 
than the time needed to generate a block with 
Litecoin. 
• Although Litecoin has been one of the most 
profitable crypto-currencies for miners, it is 
currently being overtaken by Ethereum. 
In short, we can say this: 
• Each of these three crypto-currencies has its own 
advantages and features. 
• Despite the versatility of Ethereum and the 
appeal of Litecoin, Bitcoin is by far the most 
popular crypto-currency, not least because it is so 
stable 
• Among the various crypto-currencies, Bitcoin 
serves as the benchmark and the others are 
compared to it 
• You will find different types of crypto-
currencies, which can allow you to pay 
anonymously, to mine, to find a good alternative 
to Bitcoin or which offer their own ecosystem. 
B. What is cryptocurrency 
Crypto-currency is a general term for currencies that use 
cryptography as a security measure and is synonymous 
with virtual currency [16]. 
It is characterized by the use of technology such as public 
key encryption, hashing or digital signatures to combine 
the two to improve the confidentiality of communications 
[17]. 
Virtual currency can be used as a reward for goods or 
services between an unlimited number of people and 
companies on the Internet. In the "fund settlement 
7 Ethereum: is a decentralized exchange system that enables users 
to create smart contracts using a language that is Turing-
complete. 
8 GitHub: is a website and cloud service that aids programmers in 
managing, tracking, and controlling modifications to their code. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
algorithm", the legal definition of crypto currency is as 
follows [18]: 
 
• When purchasing the borrowing of goods or receiving 
services, an unidentified person can use these goods to 
pay for these expenses, and an unidentified person can 
buy as the other party. And the value of the property 
that can be sold. 
• The value of the property that can be exchanged with 
an unidentified person as the other party of the party 
mentioned in the previous point, an electronic data 
processing organization can be used for the transfer. 
C. Cryptography 
Let's use an example where the "Sender" wishes to 
transmit a message (m) to the "Receiver". If he sends the 
message in its current form, any adversary may easily 
intercept it, compromising its confidentially. In order to create 
the encrypted message known as "cipher text," "Sender" want 
to encrypt the message using an encryption algorithm (E) and 
a secret key (k). To intercept the message, the adversary has 
to know both the algorithm (E) and the key (k). The more 
robust the algorithm and key, the more challenging it is to 
attack. Keep in mind that designing blockchain systems so that 
their security measures may change to accommodate various 
users is still desirable. 
The following figure illustrates how to express the set of 
stages common to this approach: 
 
Figure 5: Cryptography working 
D. The different types of  cryptography 
 We look at the different forms of digital cryptography and 
how they can help us achieve the other three goals listed 
above. When we talk about digital cryptography, we usually 
refer to one of the following: 
• Symmetric encryption. 
• Asymmetric encryption. 
• Hash functions. 
• Digital signatures. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
In this article, we did explain the main lines without 
needing to be a computer expert to understand, we covered the 
evolution of blockchain, its history and definition, what are 
the benefits of the design and how it works, why is it so 
important with some relevant use cases. Then, we discussed 
the concept of cryptography. 
The traditional goal of cryptography is to develop methods 
to exchange data securely. That's why modern cryptography 
addresses more generally the problems of communication 
security. 
 
[1]  E.GANNE, Can Blockchain revolutionize international trade?, 
Geneva: WorldTrade, 2018.  
[2]  M.ZAZA, L'impact des technologies de l'information et 
communication sur l'entreprise., Laayoune: Memoire online, 2016.  
[3]  «Blockchain - new opportunities for producers and consumers of 
electricity?,» [En ligne]. Available: 
https://www.pwc.ru/ru/publications/blockchain.html. 
[4]  «How much wealth do you know about cryptocurrency tycoons? 
"Forbes" list announced,» 17 February 2018. [En ligne]. Available: 
https://www.bbc.com/zhongwen/simp/business-43089926. 
[5]  L. O.Lakomski-Laguerre, L’alternative monétaire Bitcoin : une 
perspective institutionnaliste, open edition, 2015.  
[6]  J. Frankenfield, What investors need to know about altcoins, 
investopedia, 2021.  
[7]  «Qu'est-ce que la cryptomonnaie?,» [En ligne]. Available: 
https://finances-et-patrimoine.fr/bourse/la-crypto-monnaie/. 
[8]  «Crypto-monnaie : le guide complet,» [En ligne]. Available: 
https://crypto-monnaie.pro/quest-ce-que-la-crypto-monnaie/. 
[9]  G.Raymond, «Bitcoin, Ethereum, Ripple... L'avis de capital sur les 
cryptomonnaies qui comptent,» 22 March 2018. [En ligne]. 
Available: https://www.capital.fr/crypto/bitcoin-ethereum-ripple-
lavis-de-capital-sur-les-cryptomonnaies-qui-comptent-1278913. 
[10]  G. Dubertret, initiation à la cryptographie, 2000.  
[11]  «Les fondements de la cryptographie,» [En ligne]. Available: 
https://www.clicours.com/les-fondements-de-la-cryptographie/. 
[12]  «Sécurité et Cryptographie,» 2013-2014. [En ligne]. Available: 
https://lipn.univ-paris13.fr/~poinsot/SEC/Chapitre_7_Printable.pdf. 
[13]  «Quelles differences entre Bitcoin (BTC), Litecoin (LTC) et 
Ethereum (ETH)?,» [En ligne]. Available: https://coin24.fr/crypto-
monnaies/differences-btc-eth/. 
[14]  V.Flores, c'est quoi Litecoin (LTC)?, conseils crypto, 2018.  
[15]  R. Pomian-Bonnemaison, Bitcoin vs Ethereum : quelle est la 
différence ?, phoandroid, 2018.  
[16]  L. Rédaction, Cryptomonnaie : définition et synonymes, Journal du 
net, 2019.  
[17]  «Cryptomonnaie : qu'est ce que c'est?,» [En ligne]. Available: 
https://www.futura-sciences.com/tech/definitions/cryptomonnaies-
cryptomonnaie-18278/. 
[18]  «What is crypto asset (virtual currency)?,» [En ligne]. Available: 
https://www.boj.or.jp/announcements/education/oshiete/money/c27.
htm/. 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:33 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.