Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem Using Blockchain: Use Cases Suggesting Theoretical Architecture
Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem
Using Blockchain: Use Cases Suggesting
Theoretical Architecture
Anshul Jain, Tanya Singh, and Nitesh Jain
Abstract Blockchain is a distributed, open record between two customers for all
trades. The decentralized nature is possible because each trade is controlled by the
understanding of a larger number of customers, who are interested in anything in
the system. The authors concentrate and present methods to address real issues of
security in IoT. The authors review use cases and organize common issues of security
with respect to IoT layered building.Despite the current plans for attacks, hazards and
cutting-edge game, we are designing essential IoT security conditions. IoT security
problems are also orchestrated against the current game plans discovered in writing
and mapped against them. Furthermore, we are trying to discuss how blockchain,
which is the fundamental development of Bitcoin, can be the primary enabling impact
to deal with immeasurable IoT security problems. Besides, the paper includes open
research issues and challenges to IoT security. In this paper, the potential informative
applications are focused, along with explorations on how blockchain advancement
can be used to address some preparation issues. In the wake of inquiring about
security issues, authors present an architecture of IoT blockchain ecosystem. This
paper also talks about the highlights and ideal states of blockchain improvement.
Keywords Blockchain · IoT · Data security · Network security · Blockchain IoT
protocols · IoT security · IoT ecosystem · Blockchain-enabled IoT
A. Jain (B)
AIIT, Amity University, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India
e-mail: anshuljain13@gmail.com
T. Singh
ASET, Amity University, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India
e-mail: tsingh2@amity.edu
N. Jain
JSSATE, Uttar Pradesh Technical University, Noida, Uttar Pradesh, India
e-mail: jainitesh@gmail.com
© The Editor(s) (if applicable) and The Author(s), under exclusive license
to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2021
M. Tuba et al. (eds.), ICT Systems and Sustainability, Advances in Intelligent Systems
and Computing 1270, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-8289-9_21
223
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-15-8289-9_21&domain=pdf
mailto:anshuljain13@gmail.com
mailto:tsingh2@amity.edu
mailto:jainitesh@gmail.com
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-15-8289-9_21
224 A. Jain et al.
1 Introduction
Blockchain progress is generally referred to as appropriate record innovation. It
allows people to efficiently check transactions performed, exchange and transfer
advantages in [1]. A model flow of cryptographic currency blockchain exchange is
technique of ease. To initiate a transaction with User B, a shared blockchain is used
by Customer A. A cryptographic character check (two or three open keys and private
key) is used to make an unusual correlation between Customer A and Customer B in
the framework. At this stage, the exchange will be transferred strongly to thememory
pool of the blockchain framework for transaction check and approval. The new block
is shaped by acquiring a specific measure of the avowed center points; this is called
arriving at a consensus. This square incorporates every one of the exchanges that
have occurred during this minute. It is “connected” through the modern imprint to
themain obstacle in the plan in [2]. The foundation of the accord is practiced utilizing
an agreement calculation. This block embodies each of the exchanges taking place at
this time. It is “connected” to themain obstacle in the plan through themodern imprint
in [2]. The platform of the consensus is practiced using a consensus algorithm. This
is referred to as mining industry. In particular, the peer-to-peer plan competes with
the present circumstance of the spread record [3]. Each center can cast a vote by
denying advances by taking increments or dismissing invalid blocks by their CPU
ability to perceive authentic blocks.Any fundamental direction andpropellingpowers
can be executed through this plan of understanding [4]. Any block of exchange is
distinguished with a specific time mark. The two blocks are equally interfaced by
a timestamp. The blockchain data thus demonstrates a property of time, and the
span of the chain is always developing. It implies that the blockchain is a variety of
transmitted transactions that upgrade the timestamp organization [5–8]. To create a
notable chain of SHA-256 hash limit, explicit hardware is utilized by blockchain,
and cryptographic data is used to prevent invincible client data from being adjusted
[1].
The organization of this paper is as follows. Section 2 explains different applica-
tions in IoT ecosystem using blockchain technology, and it also describes its security
requirements. Next Sect. 3 explains different benefits of blockchain which makes it
robust and reliable. Section 4 describes a combined and modular architecture of IoT-
enabled blockchain technology. A brief literature survey is done in Sect. 5which goes
through several papers and writes the outcome of the research done. This section also
reviews several papers and presents them in a tabular format representing different
IoT blockchain methods proposed, their benefits, shortcomings and future scope.
Finally, conclusion is presented in last Sect. 6.
Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem Using Blockchain … 225
2 Internet of Things Domain Use Cases Using Blockchain
and Their Security Requirements
This section includes various IoT applications which explains the problems faced
due to lack of security in the study.
2.1 IoT Blockchain-Enabled Financial Services
Numerous IoT frameworks are likely to be subject to smaller-scale budget exchanges
between computerized articles, requiring the IoT devices be associated in a manner
that considers the so-called machine-to-machine (M2 M) economy–which is essen-
tially the money trading between non-human devices. The number of transactions is
concerned; countless blockchain schemes have restricted execution every time they
can cope with it. This implies most blockchain executions of proof of work and
proof of stake blockchain present the limited potential for versatility, making them
unacceptable for large-scale handling of M2 M microtransactions. Nevertheless, it
is worth mentioning that countless blockchain operations are shifting toward adapt-
ability provisions, such as the Bitcoin lightning network and the Ethereum Plasma
[9].
2.2 IoT Security with Blockchain
Another safety building that dodges the use of cryptography scheme based on
the trade-in symmetric or asymmetric cryptography keys is suggested that is not
prescribed in IoT devices due to their handling, storage and energy containment
[10]. The suggested scheme relies on the multi-operator being used to guarantee the
safety of related objects. With no compelling reason to register keys, these studies
modified with specialists can speak to different items. The main goal of this job is to
maintain an abnormal state of safety by enhancing the energy usage of IoT devices
[11].
2.3 Privacy-Preserving Healthcare Blockchain for IoT
Designs are for confirming an unbound IoT-based implementation, especially
concerning applications for medicinal services where customer approval is a key
issue. The three procedural examples, i.e. Security Goal Documentation, Choose
the Right Stuff and enroll from Outsider Pattern, are examined in [12]. Five other
examples of approval are shown in this investigation as reference monitor, access
226 A. Jain et al.
matrix role approval guidelines and role-based access control, remote authenti-
cator/authorizer and file authentication patterns. For IoT-based E-healthcare applica-
tions, a protected gathering-based lightweight validation conspire has been proposed
where the proposed model will provide shared validation and energy proficiency and
calculation for IoT-based social insurance applications [13], which will use elliptic
curve cryptography (ECC) guidelines that providemention included of the suggested
model [14].
2.4 IoT Blockchain Support to LoRaWAN Network Servers
An IoT frameworkmodel is presented that uses the LoRaWANconvention to transmit
information from sensor hubs to our cloud administration and the things network
stage that executes the backend administrations of LoRaWAN [15]. The authors have
organized a structure that can be adapted and extended to expand new advantages
just as other IoT phases are coordinated. It is also equally adaptable, which means
that a presentation can be designed simply by creating new server instances (Fig. 1).
Fig. 1 Application and benefits of IoT blockchain security
Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem Using Blockchain … 227
3 Benefits of Blockchain
Reliability. The databases of the entire transaction records are changed by the decen-
tralized concept. Cloud adds to the reliability where which helps data to be easily
accessed and processed with security features like asymmetric encryption [16].
Trust.Theblockchain structure is happening as new trust providerswith decentralized
data. These data is distributed across a system of fixed centers [17].
Security. The blockchain framework uses one-way hash work. The yield has no
unmistakable connection to the information.
Efficiency. Blockchain advancement could accelerate the clearing and repayment of
specific exchanges identified with cash by decreasing the number of middle people
included and making the trade-off procedure faster and gradually profitable [18].
4 Literature Review
Another IoT access control structure is based on the blockchain’s development. The
objective of the study is to provide a reference model for the proposed structure in the
IoT objectives, models, architecture and mechanism [19]. In addition, fair access is
presented as a full pseudonymous and security-saving executive system authorization
that empowers customers to own and regulate their data. For updating the model, the
blockchain is used and adjusted to decentralized control of access.
A decentralized trust system, called IoT passport, is suggested using innovation
in blockchain for coordinated cross-stage efforts [20]. A reference design for shared
IoT applications based on blockchain, featuring the main correspondence channels
anticipated to interface the IoT layer with the blockchain layer, was shown in [21].
By establishing frameworks and conventions for shared IoT applications based on
blockchain, the practicality of the suggested engineering has been explained.
A successful and controlled blockchain plot-based transmitted cloud architecture
is discussed in CRVANET’s biological system instead of custom cloud engineering
to protect driver safety with minimal effort and on-demand detection in [22].
In addition to providing research methodology to identify concerns and arrange-
ments, an efficient survey of existing IoT security and protection systems is provided
in [23]. It discusses IoT design, characterizes the distinct areas of safety and security
and provides a scientific classification and close investigation to plot safety goals,
risks and attacks and agreements suggested late (2015–2018) (Table 1).
228 A. Jain et al.
Table 1 Review of proposed methods
Reference No Proposed method Benefits Shortcomings Future scope
[20] IoT passport It helps in
commodity user
interfaces
It is completely
dependent on
trust and is very
susceptible to
security threats
Future work calls
for collaborative
IoT
[6] IoT chain It provides a
flexible
authorization
The
performance
and robustness
have not been
much evaluated
Private ethereum
blockchain network
needs upgradation
to be used in the
PoS-based version
of the ledger
[8] A blockchain-based
proxy re-encryption
scheme
It provides
scalability and
security to the
automated
payments
The number of
mined
transactions
depends on
various factors
including gas
price and limit
Future
implementation
includes
implementation on
different
blockchain
platform, e.g.,
hyperledger
[24] An
over-the-blockchain
firmware update
framework
It provides a
secure
verification to
the firmware
The firmware
mechanisms are
too lengthy to
operate
Future work
includes the
development of a
robust and
lightweighted
protocol
[25] Unibright New templates
are created to
recognize
different
industries
A huge number
of risks are
associated with
it
Future work needs
to focus mostly on
the risks associated
[26] A decision
framework to
support blockchain
platforms for IoT
and edge computing
It shows the
systematic
identification of
blockchain
characteristics
suitable for IoT
platform
This framework
still did not
provide any
specific
This decision
framework can be
improved into a
recommender tool
5 Proposed Architecture–Blockchain in IoT Ecosystem
The architecture of IoT ecosystem as explained in [27] is fully modular, and all
the modules can be easily decoupled from one another in order to add a module
and keeping the rest of the system intact. [28] Further provides a comparative study
on the architecture, which shows security issues and solutions on application layer.
Integrity-related problems can be handled by blockchain solutions discussed in this
paper.
Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem Using Blockchain … 229
Fig. 2 Proposed architecture for blockchain in IoT ecosystem [27, 28]
This paper proposes in Fig. 2 a modification to the architecture discussed in [28],
where blockchain is introduced before the application layer which can address some
of the security issues addressing our concerns related to confidentiality, integrity
and accountability. Several linked devices possessing the capabilities of communi-
cation, data storage and computing are present in the IoT physical layer. The connec-
tivity layer provides services which include managing the networks, managing the
security and passing of messages. The IoT blockchain service layer provides all
services including managing identities, peer-to-peer communication and consensus.
The application layer consists of the interfaces which visualize the data from all the
physical devices for regulating and manipulating devices.
6 Future Projection of an IoT and Blockchain
Authorization Model
The Internet of things (IoT) has stretched the Web availability to reach PCs and
people, yet most of our population is missing Internet of things. The IoT may be able
to combine billions of articles at the same time, which has the effect of improving the
sharing of data needs as a result of improving our lives. Even though the advantages of
IoT are boundless, due to its concentrated server/customer model, the IoT are facing
numerous difficulties. For example, the versatility and security issues that arise as a
result of the unreasonably large number of IoT issues in the system. The server model
requires all devices to be linked and verified through the server, which is the single
point of failure. In this way, moving the IoT framework in a decentralized direction
230 A. Jain et al.
could be the right choice. One of the well-known frameworks for decentralization
is blockchain. The blockchain is a ground-breaking innovation that decentralizes
computation and board forms that can capture a vast number of IoT issues, security.
Blockchain innovation is the missing link to solve the problems of versatility, protec-
tion and reliability in the Internet of things. Blockchain advances might be the silver
slug required by the IoT business. New Innovations in Blockchain technology can
be used to track billions of devices, empower exchanges and coordination between
devices are considered as significant reserve funds for IoT industry. This decentral-
ized methodology would be used for the sole purpose of disappointment, creating
a stronger biological system for devices to keep going. Cryptographic calculations
used by blockchains would make purchaser information confidential. Blockchain-
based IoT arrangements are appropriate for streamlining business forms, improving
customer experience and achieving significant cost efficiencies.
7 Conclusion
Aswe envision the future growth of IoT,wemust also discuss about its security as one
of the utmost requirements of IoT ecosystem. In this paper, we have addressed secu-
rity issues in IoT ecosystem using blockchain technology. We have also discussed a
few domains like finance, healthcare, network, smart devices, etc., all these domains
have their specific security requirements and challenges. This paper discusses the
probable models which can be used by these domains to address security issues using
blockchain technology. The broad overview provided in this paper also discusses
about the combined and modular architecture of IoT and blockchain, and this archi-
tecture is designed in such a flexibleway that all the devices and layers can be coupled
or decoupled as per the domain’s requirement. This paper also sheds some light on
the benefits of blockchain which gives us confidence of using this technology in
our future deployments. Furthermore, we have done a brief literature survey on the
solutions discussed by several technical papers on this technology. Different solu-
tions provided by several writers are compared based on their benefits, shortcomings
and future scope on the proposed method. Before concluding this paper, we have
also discussed a future projection of an IoT and blockchain-based authorized model,
which mentions specific details required for this model. This paper is just a drop
in the ocean of blockchain technology, there is long way to go and much more to
dive into, but we expect that we are able to address some of the challenges of IoT
ecosystem using blockchain technology and we hope that paper will be helpful in
researches going to happen in near future. We are hopeful that blockchain is going
to be one of the pioneer technologies in addressing security issues.
Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem Using Blockchain … 231
References
1. F. Tschorsch, B. Scheuermann, Bitcoin and beyond: a technical survey on decentralized digital
currencies. IEEE Commun. Surv. Tutorials 18(3), 2084–2123 (2016)
2. J. Yli-Huumo, D. Ko, S. Choi, S. Park, K. Smolander, Where is current research on blockchain
technology?—a systematic review. PLoS ONE 11(10), e0163477 (2016)
3. D. Kraft, Difficulty control for blockchain-based consensus systems. Peer-to-Peer Networking
Appl. 9(2), 397–413 (2016)
4. S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system (2008)
5. S. Haber, W. Stornetta, How to time-stamp a digital document, Crypto’90, LNCS 537 (1991)
6. O. Alphand, M. Amoretti, T. Claeys, S. Dall’Asta, A. Duda, G. Ferrari, F. Rousseau, B.
Tourancheau, L. Veltri, F. Zanichelli, IoTChain: a blockchain security architecture for the
internet of things, in 2018 IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference
(WCNC) (IEEE, 2018), pp. 1–6
7. S.Mendhurwar, R.Mishra, Integration of social and IoT technologies: architectural framework
for digital transformation and cyber security challenges, in Enterprise Information Systems
(2019), 1–20
8. A. Manzoor, M. Liyanage, A. Braeke, S.S. Kanhere, M. Ylianttila, Blockchain based proxy
re-encryption scheme for secure IoT data sharing, in 2019 IEEE International Conference on
Blockchain and Cryptocurrency (ICBC) (IEEE, 2019), pp. 99–103
9. The derivative effect how financial services can make IoT technology pay off. Retrieved
from https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/financial-services/articles/the-derivative-effect-
how-financial-services-can-make-iot-technology-pay-off.html. Last accessed 15 Jan 2020
10. B.A. Abdelhakim, B.A. Mohamed, B. Mohammed, B.A.O. Ikram, New security approach for
IoT communication systems, in Proceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Smart City
Applications (ACM, 2018), pp. 2
11. How to secure the internet of things with blockchain. Retrieved from https://www.devteam.
space/blog/how-to-secure-the-internet-of-things-iot-with-blockchain/. Last accessed 15 Jan
2020
12. M. Aydar, S.C. Cetin, S. Ayvaz, B. Aygun, Private key encryption and recovery in blockchain,
arXiv preprint (2019), arXiv:1907.04156
13. A. Pazaitis, P. De Filippi, V. Kostakis, Blockchain and value systems in the sharing economy:
the illustrative case of backfeed. Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang. 125, 105–115 (2017)
14. A.D. Dwivedi, G. Srivastava, S. Dhar, R. Singh, A decentralized privacy-preserving healthcare
blockchain for iot. Sensors 19(2), 326 (2019)
15. Network Architecture, https://www.thethingsnetwork.org/docs/network/architecture.html.
Last accessed 25 Jan 2020
16. Y. Zhang, C. Xu, J. Ni, H. Li, X.S. Shen Blockchain-assisted public-key encryption with
keyword search against keyword guessing attacks for cloud storage. IEEE Trans. Cloud
Comput. (2019)
17. S. Underwood, Blockchain beyond bitcoin. Commun. ACM 59(11), 15–17 (2016)
18. H. Wang, K. Chen, D. Xu, A maturity model for blockchain adoption. Finan. Innov. 2(1), 12
(2016)
19. S. Moin, A. Karim, Z. Safdar, K. Safdar, E. Ahmed, M. Imran, Securing IoTs in distributed
blockchain: analysis, requirements and open issues. Future Generation Comput. Syst. 100,
325–343 (2019)
20. B. Tang, H. Kang, J. Fan, Q. Li, R. Sandhu, IoT passport: a blockchain-based trust framework
for collaborative internet-of-things, in Proceedings of the 24th ACM Symposium on Access
Control Models and Technologies (ACM, 2019), pp. 83–92
21. G.S. Ramachandran, B. Krishnamachari, A reference architecture for blockchain-based peer-
to-peer IoT applications. arXiv preprint (2019), arXiv:1905.10643
22. S. Nadeem, M. Rizwan, F. Ahmad, J. Manzoor, Securing cognitive radio vehicular ad hoc
network with fog node based distributed blockchain cloud architecture. Int. J. Adv. Comput.
Sci. Appl. 10(1), 288–295 (2019)
https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/pages/financial-services/articles/the-derivative-effect-how-financial-services-can-make-iot-technology-pay-off.html
https://www.devteam.space/blog/how-to-secure-the-internet-of-things-iot-with-blockchain/
http://arxiv.org/abs/1907.04156
https://www.thethingsnetwork.org/docs/network/architecture.html
http://arxiv.org/abs/1905.10643
232 A. Jain et al.
23. M. Gulzar, G. Abbas, Internet of things security: a survey and taxonomy, in 2019 International
Conference on Engineering and Emerging Technologies (ICEET) (IEEE, 2019), pp. 1–6
24. A. Yohan, N.W. Lo, An over-the-blockchain firmware update framework for IoT devices, in
2018 IEEE Conference on Dependable and Secure Computing (DSC) (IEEE, 2018), pp. 1–8
25. S. Schmidt, M. Jung, T. Schmidt, I. Sterzinger, G. Schmidt, M. Gomm, K. Tschirschke,
T. Reisinger, F., Schlarb, D. Benkenstein, B. Emig, Unibright-the unified framework for
blockchain based business integration, in Unibright Project White Paper (2018)
26. N. El Ioini, C. Pahl, S. Helmer, A decision framework for blockchain platforms for IoT and
edge computing. SCITEPRESS (2018)
27. A. Jain T. Singh, in Security challenges and solutions of IoT ecosystem, ed. by M. Tuba, S.
Akashe, A. Joshi. Information and Communication Technology for Sustainable Development.
Advances in Intelligent Systems and Computing, vol. 933 (Springer, Singapore, 2020)
28. A. Jain, T. Singh, S.K. Sharma, Threats paradigm IoT ecosystem, in 2018 7th Interna-
tional Conference on Reliability, Infocom Technologies and Optimization (Trends and Future
Directions) (ICRITO) (Noida, India, 2018), pp. 1–7
	 Framework for Securing IoT Ecosystem Using Blockchain: Use Cases Suggesting Theoretical Architecture
	1 Introduction
	2 Internet of Things Domain Use Cases Using Blockchain and Their Security Requirements
	2.1 IoT Blockchain-Enabled Financial Services
	2.2 IoT Security with Blockchain
	2.3 Privacy-Preserving Healthcare Blockchain for IoT
	2.4 IoT Blockchain Support to LoRaWAN Network Servers
	3 Benefits of Blockchain
	4 Literature Review
	5 Proposed Architecture–Blockchain in IoT Ecosystem
	6 Future Projection of an IoT and Blockchain Authorization Model
	7 Conclusion
	References