COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift in Technology for Insurance Industry
Chapter 74
COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift
in Technology for Insurance Industry
Ravi Shankar Jha , Priti Ranjan Sahoo , and Arvind Tripathy
Abstract As the global economy grapples with the advent of novel coronavirus
and its variants, the aftermath has left all industries with ongoing uncertainties and
incalculable loss of life and livelihood in most countries worldwide. In such unpre-
dictable situations, the insurance industry and governments worldwide have become
the prominent source of optimism to sail through the situation. This applies to the
insurance industry globally, which is currently in the grip of fear due to the COVID-
19 outbreak and anticipating significant economic slowdown and hardship because
insurance rides on the back of other Industries. Therefore, to overcome a few of the
tenacious roadblocks due to the COVID outbreak, Insurers will be forced to reassess
all aspects of their business life cycle and take necessary steps to continue operations
with minimum disruption. Precisely, the impact of COVID on General Insurers and
Life and Health Insurers varied depending on the lines of business, product lines,
and a bouquet of benefits offered by the insurers. The pandemic has taken a hit on
new gross written premiums on specific lines of business, such as medical, travel,
commercial, and business insurance. Few lines of business such as motor and home
have remained muted during the COVID timeframe. However, the claims volumes
for personal insurance (e.g., motor) have significantly decreased due to the lock-
down and travel restriction; the industry has witnessed the highest claims volumes
in life and health compared to the past several decades. They say, “As every dark
cloud has a silver lining,” it has given an opportunity to many insurers to develop
new products (e.g., Pay Mile Auto insurance) and push toward greater productivity,
i.e., digital capability across product range which will result in an elevated position
to understand and address to the customer and intermediary self-service (such as
Portals) and implicit and explicit needs. Notably, the Insurance industry is likely to
lean toward offering personalized yet custom-made products and services, which
are sharply focused on preventative care and embracing digitalization across the
value chain. Besides enabling scalability and connectivity, insurers are strategically
R. S. Jha · P. R. Sahoo (B) · A. Tripathy
KIIT School of Management, KIIT University (Institution of Eminence), Bhubaneswar, India
e-mail: prsahoo@ksom.ac.in
A. Tripathy
e-mail: arvind@ksom.ac.in
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Singapore Pte Ltd. 2023
J. Choudrie et al. (eds.), ICT with Intelligent Applications, Smart Innovation, Systems
and Technologies 311, https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-3571-8_74
811
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-981-19-3571-8_74&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-6537-9862
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9400-0981
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-9778-4128
mailto:prsahoo@ksom.ac.in
mailto:arvind@ksom.ac.in
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-981-19-3571-8_74
812 R. S. Jha et al.
focused on digitizing the core of the business and cloud implementation; automa-
tion across the insurance value chain is necessary to compete successfully with new
innovative product development or inclusive business models. Around the globe,
the insurance industry is continuously putting a deep focus on revitalizing the tech-
nology paradigm to grow and strive to achieve cost-effectiveness amid emerging
markets, rapidly changing economic conditions and stiff competition from Insurtech.
According to industry experts across geographies, growthmay be a balanced blend of
preventative and protective approaches, with a gamut of new and improved services
and products, and insurers are deeply fostering redefining service-oriented strategies
and innovative products.
Keywords COVID-19 · Insurance · Digital · Blockchain · Artificial Intelligence ·
Technology · Insurtech
74.1 Current ‘Global Insurance Stance’
Theglobal insurance penetration is 7.3%, as per reports fromStatista [15].Around the
world, insurers are facing tough economic challenges in terms of flat interest rates
(primarily for life insurers), rising inflation, negative yields from the government
bonds and corporate market that are driving the industry’s Return on Investment
(ROI) and Return on Equity (ROE) down. Consistent price hikes for raw material
in the construction business, rental vehicles (personal and commercial usage), and
auto parts (computer chips for Smart cars and semiconductors) are pushing expense
lever threatening to drive up the insurer loss cost in the year 2022. As per the survey
fromWillis Tower Watson, the implementation of International Financial Reporting
Standard (IFRS 17) , which is due to come into effect in January 2023 likely to cost
global insurers between USD 15 billion and USD 20 billion.
As per the reports from McKinney [4], the insurance industry is projected to
be a $10 Trillion industry by 2030. Also, {McKinney reports} highlighted that
across the world, Insurtechs are predominately offering last-mile capability driven
through digital innovation and integration of disruptive technologies, paving the way
to multiple lines of business and product lines within the Insurance value chain [11].
Notable investments in Insurtechs worldwide are showing an upward trajectory from
$1 billion in 2004 to $7.2 billion in 2019 to $14.6 billion in 2021 (as per the recent
report in Deloitte [6, 12]). Around 40% of Insurtechs and a few big insurance carriers
are primarily targeting disruptive distribution channels and radical marketing strate-
gies, fueling them to meet the needs of end customers and improve the customer
journey through a digitally enhanced and enriched client experience [5]. In a pre-
COVID era, though digitalization and technology were in place across the insurance
value chain for many insurers after COVID, an unprecedented shift in technology
paradigm and adoption of technologies has accelerated to the maximum to do the
business, and it has been no more an option for any insurer globally (Fig. 74.1).
74 COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift in Technology for Insurance… 813
Fig. 74.1 Insurance value chain
There are several promising examples in which Insurers levered emerging tech-
nologies and reaped the benefits of early movers in the given space. For instance,
Allstate insurer have come up with a concept of connected cars which will offer
competitive premiums with telematics. Similarly, AIG has developed ‘Attune,’ a
data intelligence for underwriters. Aetna has implemented fraudulent claim detec-
tion using advanced machine learning. Based on the recent survey from McKinsey,
Insurtechs and some big insurer carriers would be focusing on marketing and
distribution channels in the coming time.
Another factor continuing to cut General Insurance insurer profitability is the
financial losses from climate risks. As per the Deloitte report [12] of 2021, globally
projected insured natural disaster property losses amounted to USD 40 billion until
June. This has resulted in many insurance regulators across the globe launching their
initiatives. In theUnited States, it is anticipated to outline new direction banking upon
Technology level on how insurers should be releasing and dealingwith financial risks
spawn due to climate change.
Coming on to the Global insurance merger and acquisition (M&A) domain, deals
will be strategic rather than opportunistic, with the help of sizable capital infusion by
private equity investment firms already prevalent in the insurance brokerage space.
Life andAnnuity (L&A) Insurerswho are still deemed legacy insurers aremore likely
to explore inorganic growth and acquire Insurtech in 2022 than General Insurance
Insurer. The latter is already actively engaged in Insurtech investment. Recently
Voya Financial sold its annuities, life, and wealth businesses and doubled down
on retirement, asset management, and group insurance. MassMutual, meanwhile,
divested its US direct-contribution business, Oppenheimer Funds, and its businesses
in Asia.
However, with the points mentioned earlier, the global insurance market is
expected to exceed US$7 trillion in premium terms by mid-2022 due to rising risk
awareness among consumers and businesses [17]. Theywere the leading insurer insti-
tute [18], firmly anticipating that the global economy rebound steadily in 2022 from
the COVID-19 pandemic because of the accelerated pace of vaccination drive and
global fiscal stimulus through government bodies [1]. However, this recovery may be
impacted by the problem of upcoming virus variants (Delta, Omicron). Witnessing
a drop of 2.9% in real growth in 2020, the institute estimates total global insurance
premiums [8] will slow to 3.3% in 2022 and 3.1% in 2023. Slower economic growth
814 R. S. Jha et al.
Fig. 74.2 Global insurance marketplace position of premium growth
in 2022 and 2023 is expected because of supply chain challenges, labor shortages,
and inflated energy prices [2]. Global life premiums are estimated to grow 2.8% from
2022 to 2023. Nonlife/General Insurance premiums are projected to grow 3.5% from
2022 to 2023, driven by rate hardening in commercial lines of business. Institute
expects global insurance premiums to exceed $7 trillion by mid-2022 (Fig. 74.2).
As per the Deloitte report [12], the consolidated premiums for all lines rebounded
by 3.3% for full year 2021 and likely to be 3.9% in 2022. China is founded to lead the
way with 9% growth in 2022, followed by emerging market at 7.4%, while advance
market are likely to see more moderate gains averaging 3%.
The industry will exhibit an unusual growth trajectory and profound finan-
cial performance in 2022. Yet the global survey from Big 4’s indicates that there
are multiple challenges cut across Finance, Talent, Technology, and Marketing
as insurers continue to acclimate to the pandemic’s aftershock and seek massive
enterprise transformation to propel faster growth and safeguard their enterprising
future.
74.2 Emerging Trends Reshaping the Insurance Industry
In the year 2022, insurers are evaluating, scaling, and refining the numerous digital
adoptions they had implemented as need of the hour to meet the requirements during
and after pandemic era supported by virtual workplace (equitable to hybrid work
model) and redefining customer engagement journey to ensure mere difference
before and after COVID generation [14]. Also, insurers are relentlessly revamping
the process and ICT landscape with the help of emerging and disruptive technology
strategies to achieve sustainable growth and fulfill the long-term vision. Though
core system modernization remains the top priority for the insurer, integrating data
74 COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift in Technology for Insurance… 815
Fig. 74.3 Emerging technologies where carrier expects to increase spending in 2022
analytics, rejuvenating business processes and models, creating personalized offer-
ings, and automation solutions will be in center stage to increase efficiency and
revenue—themajority of whichwill be deployed in the cloud platform. Post COVID,
insurers have realized that accelerated technology adoption has become evident, the
battle for talent resources is expected to bemore ferocious in the year 2022. Deloitte’s
survey [12] recently expects technology budgets to rise by 13.7% in 2022 (Fig. 74.3).
From a technology point of view, the ever-increasing usage of Artificial Intelli-
gence (AI), Big Data Analytics, and cloud adoption will revamp the technology/ICT
landscape [14] of the insurance value chain. Insurers are increasingly investing in
conventional AI or chatbots, Big data capabilities to communicate effectively among
various stakeholders, improvise user experience, and reduce wait times [10]. Insurer
data can generate analytics and insight to transform customer experience via person-
alized products as per customer needs, product bundling, and subscription models.
For example,Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance has anAI-powered “agent support system”
to accelerate the potential need identification of customers by analyzing internal
and external data. AI is also helping to adopt new business models such as AI-
driven Underwriting/Pricing, and insurers collaborate with online retailers to provide
required insurance products and benefits in real-time while purchasing consumer
goods.
Another emerging trend gaining sound traction among insurers is striving
to build a digital-ready workplace (hybrid work model) encompassing onshore
presence, remote working capabilities, and offshore presence, offering a digital
working ecosystem systematically orchestrated by virtual collaboration using stan-
dard communication tools. This implies that the talent approach should be adopted
in parallel. The insurer needs to examine their productivity, collaboration, and
innovation by doing trial and error on different plans.
816 R. S. Jha et al.
74.3 Discussion
With digital strategies being implemented across insurance companies (e.g., self-
service portals, chatbots, core modernizations, etc.), face-to-face contact is prob-
lematic for potential customers (e.g., old age population in Japan) who still want
to buy services that way. Hence carriers should start adapting and find other ways
to integrate with legacy approaches to insurance operation, personalized product
development, distribution, and marketing. Insurance companies should not neglect
the human touch with the digitalization embedded in the insurance life cycle. The
insurance carrier needs to consider which form of insurance interaction channel
users will prefer, digital versus human intervention, to create a unique yet exciting
experience for its customer community.
Insurers are moving toward a ready-made COTS product that requires little or
no modification (product flexibility) to roll out their new and existing line of busi-
ness. Selection of these COTS products is a challenging and cumbersome process,
and hence the collaboration with Insurtech or IT service provider will play a huge
role. Citing reference example, AXA AL is establishing a tripartite ecosystem with
contractor customers, technology vendors, and innovation leaders to create an enter-
prising construction ecosystem using cameras and sensors to gather data to draw
impactful insight, which would rejuvenate engagement experience with commercial
customers.
Innovating and penetrating with new insurance products (for cyber risks, climate
change, pandemics, and intangible assets) is also becoming a discussion point. Many
insurers are yet to participate in the crypto insurance market, leaving relatively a
broader market segment in the current time on how to underwrite with profitability
and market such policies. Another one is cyber insurance which remains an unex-
ploited opportunity with less than 1% direct written premiums.With remote working
and increased digitalization, underwriting and pricing coverage are enormous chal-
lenges that insurers need to address. 60% of the organization are expected to invest
in some form of cybersecurity [3] by 2022–23. Scaling usage-based insurance to
multiple lines of business is another hot topic that will impact the market globally. It
is widely used for auto businesses, and companies are getting a good return on their
investment in this COVID era. In a nutshell, the insurer needs to make their prod-
ucts modular, reallocate capital between commercial and personal lines, and move
speedily to establish strong market positions in the new risks [13].
Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) have become a top priority as the
direct impacts of theCOVID-19 pandemic have receded [16]. Until 2021, discussions
around sustainability were largely theoretical. Still, in 2022, many insurers would be
taking credible steps toward embracing hard metrics as they would be committed to
addressing the full range of ESG issues and opportunities [16].
74 COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift in Technology for Insurance… 817
74.4 Conclusion
The COVID-19 pandemic has made significant changes in the insurance industry
(General and Life Insurance) in terms of people, processes, and technology (know-
how) and changed the perspective of the end customers. Insurance organizations are
quickly integrating emerging technologies, focusing on the digital stack, committing
to agile way, upskill or reskilling workforce, adapting innovative business models
and products (such as usage-based insurance) to sustain in such turbulent times and
maintain growth and profitability. Also, organizations across the globe are adopting
new norms like making their employees work remotely from their homes, crafting a
hybrid work model, adhering to safe distancing measures, and contactless transac-
tions (especially by agents and brokers) to negate the effects of business disruption
and meet customer expectations. Also, with COVID-19, the insurers respond to this
situation depending on the demographic regions.
Above mentioned imperatives would enable carriers to answer the “how to play”
question in 2022–23. Insurers must invest quickly and massively in high-volume
activities with technology, digital skills, data and analytics capabilities, customer
experience, and compliance competencies to keep pace in the changing environment.
Several players have already adapted, andotherswill be changing and refocusing their
footprint and business model—in effect, rebalancing their portfolio of activities and
reviewing their capital allocation, mainly through M&A and asset disposals. Many
insurers believe they will be able to recreate value creation by offloading existing
legacy liabilities to owners better positioned to manage them and by changing their
business model.
Insurance companies will be using transformation lever to sustain and prosper in
the post COVID world. Though core value chain elements will remain in insurance,
all critical business processes (from quote to policy issuance to claims) will be more
streamlined, which will be enabled by digitalization, investment in technology, and
automation with no code/low code. Another notable emphasis would be enhancing
and personalizing customer engagement and experience with simplification of prod-
ucts portfolio, which can be customized according to individual needs. The insurer
needs to focus on business strategies (peer-to-peer insurance), technologies (Telem-
atics, IoT platforms,Drones, Blockchain,machine learning/deep learning), structural
simplification, marketplaces, and enterprise agility to achieve full potential [9].
In any geography, the insurers that will quickly integrate technology, upskill
the workforce, adopt innovative business models will taste success in such turbu-
lent times. In a nutshell, insurers need to reinvent themselves to become future-
ready. Enterprises need to prepare themselves, focusing on the “Trends and Trinity”
optimization, “Trends” in terms of technology, regulations, business models, and
“Trinity” or the three dimensions of speed, efficiency, and risk.
Insurance companies around the globe are standing at a crossroads wherein they
need to assess their investment portfolio, experience a new hybrid work model,
increase focus on technology spending and adoption, macro and micro hedge strate-
gies to strengthen their capital and operational efficiency [7]. As Peter Drucker
818 R. S. Jha et al.
famously said that “Luck never built a business. Prosperity and growth come only to
the business that systematically finds and exploits its potential.” Therefore, insurance
companies need to develop strategies based on a holistic understanding of current
and future trends and reassess their product depth and breadth, geographic focus,
technology capabilities, operating model, and core business process capabilities.
The verdict is clear; a proper balance between disruptive innovation (embracing
through disruptive technologies) and operational innovation (refining existing busi-
ness processes across value chain keeping customer centricity at center stage) with
novel business models will help the insurer disproportionally succeed and build
sustainable and enterprising future.
References
1. Aizpún, F.C., Dia, X., Lechner, R.: World insurance: the recovery gains pace. Swiss Re
Management Ltd, No 3, 44 (2021)
2. Antonelli, T., Cook, D.: Is the Market Rotation the Real Deal or Just a Head-Fake? Wellington
Management (2021)
3. Babuna, P., Yang, X., Gyilbag, A., Awudi, D.A., Ngmenbelle, D., Bian, D.: The impact of
COVID-19 on the insurance industry. Int. J. Environ. Res. Public Health 17(16), 5766 (2020)
4. Balasubramanian, R., Libarikian, A., Doug, M.: Insurance 2030—The Impact of AI on the
Future of Insurance. McKinsey (2021)
5. Bernard, P.-I., Binder, S., D’Amico, A., Nayves, H. de C. de, Ellingrud, K., Klais, P., Kotanko,
B., et al.: Creating Value, Finding Focus: Global Insurance Report 2022.McKinsey’s Insurance
Practice (2022)
6. Deloitte.: Impact of COVID-19 on the Insurance Sector. Deloitte Review, vol. 6 (2020)
7. Erk, A., Patiath, P., Pedde, J., van Ouwerkerk, J.: Insurance Productivity 2030 : Reimagining
the Insurer for the Future. McKinsey & Company (2020)
8. Insurance Information Institution.: “Insurance Handbook” (2020). Available at: https://www.
iii.org/publications/insurance-handbook/economic-and-financial-data/world-insurance-mar
ketplace. Accessed on 6 March 2022
9. Jha, R.S., Sahoo, P.R.: Internet of things (IOT)—enabler for connectingworld. ICT for Compet-
itive Strategies: Proceedings of 4th International Conference on Information and Commu-
nication Technology for Competitive Strategies (ICTCS 2019), December 13th-14th, 2019,
Udaipur, India. CRC Press, p. 1 (2020)
10. Jha, R.S., Sahoo, P.R.: Influence of big data capabilities in knowledge management—MSMEs,
pp. 513–524. Springer, ICT Systems and Sustainability (2021)
11. Jha, R.S., Sahoo, P.R.: Relevance of Disruptive Technologies Led Knowledge Management
System and Practices for MSME, pp. 139–147. Springer, ICT Systems and Sustainability
(2022)
12. Li, T.: Global insurance market to hit a record of US$7 trillion by mid-2022. SHINE News
(2021). Available at: https://www.shine.cn/biz/finance/2112149481/. Accessed 6 March 2022
13. Mishra, P., Mishra, N., Sant, G.: Impact of COVID-19 on Business Industry and Management:
Pandemic Challenges and Responses (2021)
14. Nicoletti, B.: Insurance 4.0:Benefits andChallenges ofDigital Transformation. SpringerNature
(2020)
15. Rudden, J.: Global insurance industry—statistics and facts. In: Statista Research Department
(2021). Available at: https://www.statista.com/topics/6529/global-insurance-industry/#topicH
eader__wrapper. Accessed 7 March 2022
https://www.iii.org/publications/insurance-handbook/economic-and-financial-data/world-insurance-marketplace
https://www.shine.cn/biz/finance/2112149481/
https://www.statista.com/topics/6529/global-insurance-industry/#topicHeader__wrapper
74 COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift in Technology for Insurance… 819
16. Santenac, I., Bong, S.Y., Majkowski, E., Manchester, P.: 2022 Global Insurance Outlook. EY
Global Insurance Outlook (2022)
17. Shaw, G.: A Report from the Deloitte Center for Financial Services 2022 Insurance Industry
Outlook About the Center for Financial Services (2021)
18. Smith, R.: Global insurance industry could hit new record in 2022. In: Insurance
Business America (2021). Available at: https://www.insurancebusinessmag.com/us/news/bre
aking-news/global-insurance-industry-could-hit-new-record-in-2022-317017.aspx. Accessed
6 March 2022
https://www.insurancebusinessmag.com/us/news/breaking-news/global-insurance-industry-could-hit-new-record-in-2022-317017.aspx
	74 COVID-19 Triggers a Paradigm Shift in Technology for Insurance Industry
	74.1 Current ‘Global Insurance Stance’
	74.2 Emerging Trends Reshaping the Insurance Industry
	74.3 Discussion
	74.4 Conclusion
	References