Blockchain and Stackleberg Game-based Fair and Trusted Data Pricing Scheme for Ride Sharing
Blockchain and Stackleberg Game-based Fair and
Trusted Data Pricing Scheme for Ride Sharing
Riya Kakkar∗, Nilesh Kumar Jadav†, Rajesh Gupta‡, Student Member, IEEE, Smita Agrawal§, Member, IEEE,
Sudeep Tanwar¶, Senior Member, IEEE
∗†‡§¶Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Institute of Technology, Nirma University, Ahmedabad, India
Email: ∗21ftphde56@nirmauni.ac.in, †21ftphde53@nirmauni.ac.in, ‡18ftvphde31@nirmauni.ac.in,
§smita.agrawal@nirmauni.ac.in, ¶sudeep.tanwar@nirmauni.ac.in
Abstract—This paper proposes a blockchain-based secure and
optimal data pricing scheme for ride-sharing. It mainly focuses
on securing the data transactions between vehicle owners and
customers. It utilizes a communication network, i.e., 6G, to
facilitate the low latency and high data rate transmissions
between vehicle owner and customer. We applied a reverse
Stackelberg game theory approach to yield the optimal payoff
for vehicle owners and customers. The performance results of the
proposed system over a 6G communication network is estimated
by differentiating it with conventional networks such as 4G and
5G. The performance is evaluated considering the parameters
latency, scalability, and the optimal payoff for the system. The
performance results conclude that the proposed system is secure,
reliable, and yields the optimal payoff for vehicle owners and
customers.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Smart contract, Stackelberg game,
Optimum pricing, Ride sharing.
I. INTRODUCTION
Nowadays, people have been fascinated by their private cars
or vehicles to reach their work. Unfortunately, this incurs
traffic congestion, pollution, and high energy consumption,
due to which a person can lose his daily wages or even job
[1]. Lately, on-demand ride-sharing schemes, such as Ola,
Uber, Didi, etc., have attracted a lot of attention where users
can share the ride to facilitate sharing activities, such as
vehicle-pooling [2]. The ride-sharing scheme is a promising
solution to enhance transportation services by improving traffic
congestion, pollution quality index, and reducing energy con-
sumption [3]. However, despite its indispensable advantages,
ride-sharing schemes are vulnerable to security and privacy
threats, such as denial-of-service (DoS), data forgery, spoofing,
and injection attacks [4]. Moreover, the ride-sharing scheme
uses a centralized system for data processing that is at a
high stake of being exploited. In addition, the customers are
sharing their personal information, such as government ID,
address details, mobile number, payment details, etc., in the
ride-sharing application [5]. Therefore, an attacker tries to
collect personal information from the ride-sharing application
to proliferate identity and authentication attacks.
Several researchers across the globe attempt to provide a
feasible solution to tackle the aforementioned security issues
[6]. For instance, the authors of [7] present a biometric-
based authentication mechanism to verify the identity of
the authentic drivers for on-demand ride-sharing services.
Next in, [8] the customers are finding feasible partners to
share the car-pooling services. However, one has to share
his personal information to find viable partners; this raises
privacy issues in the pooling services. Therefore, the authors
embraced the privacy-preserving authentication mechanism to
resolve the problem of finding genuine partners in the ride-
sharing application. Nevertheless, the cryptographic solutions
are not robust as modern computing can easily break them.
With the advent of blockchain technology, it is incorporated
in various applications to create trustworthy and privacy-
preserving solutions. Baza et al. in [9] discussed that an
attacker could forge and send multiple ride requests which
are not committed by any of them. For that, they proposed a
blockchain-based ride-sharing scheme that authenticates each
request by using the smart contract [10][11]. Then in [12] the
authors are ensuring the confidentiality, integrity, and privacy
of the ride-sharing services by adopting consortium blockchain
and encryption standards. However, the aforementioned work
has not involved an interplanetary file system (IPFS) that can
increase the scalability of the blockchain network.
The other constraint the ride-sharing scheme encounters is
its price optimality. The price strategies are highly dynamic
and complex under different ride-sharing schemes, such as
high prices in the peak time, i.e., in the morning, and lower
prices in the afternoon. There is a huge demand for ride-
sharing platforms in a high peak time; however, it suffers
from capacity issues that raise the prices. Therefore, there
is a need for price optimality between drivers and customers
in ride-sharing schemes. To confront the pricing optimality,
the authors of [13] proposed a Stackelberg game between
data proprietor, driver, and customer. The result shows that
the proposed system has better convergence and the existence
of game equilibrium. Then, in [14] the authors resolved the
problem of territory allocation between drivers by embracing
bargaining game theory. However, the aforementioned solu-
tions have not discussed the price optimization between drivers
and customers in ride-sharing schemes.
Thus, there is a requirement for a combinatorial framework
that can solve the security and privacy issues and optimize
the price in ride-sharing platforms. This motivates us to
propose a secure and optimal framework by amalgamating the
Stackelberg game and blockchain technology underlying 6G
communication. First, we introduce the certificate authority
that validates the vehicle owners and customers to become
members of a blockchain network [15]. Then, we present a
smart contract that verifies the credentials of vehicle owners
and customers; only then they are authorized to share their data
in the blockchain network. Once authenticated, the members
can store their data inside IPFS, which is less expensive than
ethereum-based blockchain. Furthermore, it generates hashes
that can be stored securely in immutable, distributed blocks of
the blockchain [16]. Moreover, to optimize the price between
the blockchain members of ride-sharing platforms, we have
WS21 IEEE ICC 2022 Workshop on Blockchain for Secure Software-defined Networking in Smart Communities
978-1-6654-2671-8/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 854
20
22
 IE
EE
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
ns
 W
or
ks
ho
ps
 (I
CC
 W
or
ks
ho
ps
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
26
71
-8
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
CW
O
RK
SH
O
PS
53
46
8.
20
22
.9
81
47
04
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:27:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
formulated a reverse stackelberg game that maximizes the
payoff among each other. We also integrated the staggering
benefits of a 6G network interface to increase the performance
of the proposed framework in terms of data rates, latency,
and scalability [17]. The blockchain technology blended with
the reverse stackelberg game and a 6G network makes the
proposed framework robust, reliable, and optimized for its
better enactment.
A. Research contributions
• We propose a blockchain-based secure and optimal ride-
sharing scheme over the 6G network. Furthermore, incor-
porated IPFS with blockchain ensures the cost-efficient
data storage of the user’s data about the rides.
• We formulate a reverse stackelberg game theory approach
to provide users vehicle owners and customers with
optimal payoff.
• Lastly, we evaluate the performance of the proposed sys-
tem considering the parameters such as optimal payoff,
scalability, and latency.
B. Organization
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section II
presents the system model and problem formulation. Section
III discusses a reverse stackelberg game theory approach.
Section IV presents the security verification of the proposed
system. Section V presents the results and discussion, and
finally, the paper is concluded in Section VI.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND PROBLEM FORMULATION
Fig. 1 shows the proposed framework of blockchain-based
and reverse stackelberg game for ride-sharing applications.
The proposed framework is divided into three layers, i.e.,
data acquisition, transaction, and blockchain layer. It mainly
constitutes a group of vehicle owners (∆a), a group of
customers (δc), and a group of certificate authorities Υ. The
δc communicates over a 6G network with ∆a in ride-sharing
application to book a ride. From the viewpoint of security,
the attacker can forge the car-sharing data D, which adversely
affects the performance of the ride-sharing system. Therefore,
blockchain allows an immutable ledger where the D is stored
securely. First, a certificate authority Υ gets the registration
request from δc and ∆a to become authentic blockchain
members. Once they are authenticated, the smart contracts ψ
execute upon a specified condition to verify the credentials
obtained from the Υ and car-sharing data D.
After verifying, the ψ permits the δc and ∆a to store their
D in IPFS. Incorporating IPFS-based blockchain technology
in the proposed framework enhances blockchain scalability.
This is because it stores hashes of the D instead of raw data.
The second objective of this paper is to optimize the price
between ∆a and δc; for that, we have employed the reverse
stackelberg game. Here, firstly follower player δc makes the
strategy, and accordingly, ∆a plans the strategy to get the
optimized payoff in ride-sharing. A complete description of the
game is described in Section III. Furthermore, each δc requires
immediate service, i.e., a ride from a ride-sharing application.
In this vein, we need low latency and a high data rate system to
solve the high demands of customers. Toward this goal, a 6G
network comprises high data rates (1 Tbps), high reliability
(99.99999%), high scalability (10ˆ99 devices/sqm), and low
latency (1 ms) can enhance the communication between ∆a
and δc. A detailed explanation of each layer is as follows,
A. Data acquisition layer
In this layer, there are multiple vehicle owners
{∆1,∆2, . . . ,∆d} ∈ ∆a and customers {δ1, δ2, . . . , δt}
∈ δc, where each ∆a and δc are associated with the hash
function H. The ∆a fills the necessary information, such
as ride fare, drop locations etc. for a δc to register the ride
in the ride-sharing application. Similarly, the δc can also
provide required data to register a ride, such as a pick and
drop points, mobile number, etc. Consequently, the ∆a and
δc have stored the personal information in the centralized
ride-sharing application that lures the attackers to manipulate
it. To overcome this issue, a certificate authority ΥΦ verifies
the hash H and certificate phi of ∆a and the δc. If both the
entities are authenticated, then they can store the ride-sharing
data D in the blockchain. If not, then the Υ assigns certificates
ϕ to each ∆a and δc to ensure the security and privacy of the
ride-sharing system.
B. Transaction layer
This layer presents the data exchange between vehicle
owner ∆a, customer δc, and blockchain layer over the 6G
network interface. Here, a smart contract psi is executed on
specified conditions to vindicate the certificate phi assigned by
the certificate authority Υ to each ∆a and δc. If the certificates
are valid, the vehicle owner and the customer can successfully
store their data in the blockchain. Additionally, if both entities
want to access the stored data from the blockchain. In that
case, they still need to verify their certificate to the smart
contract to access the data stored inside the blockchain. If
the certificates are not valid, the smart contract declines the
request and formally updates the data request status to the
vehicle owner and customer.
C. Blockchain layer
In this layer, we introduce the ethereum-based blockchain
to preserve privacy and improve the security of the proposed
framework. In the previous layer, the smart contract has
bifurcated the valid and invalid data requests from the vehicle
owner ∆a and customer δc. As a result, only authenticated
data request is forwarded to the blockchain layer. This layer in-
volves an IPFS technology proportionally fair compared to the
ethereum-based blockchain. This is because to store 1MB of
ride-sharing data D in an Ethereum block cost approximately
17,100 USD which is significantly high. The IPFS technology
poses the same benefits as ethereum; however, it is cost-
free, remarkably reliable, and competent. It generates unique
hash values of D of ∆a and δc and stores them inside the
ethereum blocks. Then, transaction perfomed while generating
the hashed data, i.e., Ξ∆a for the vehicle owner and ξδc for
the customer is forwarded to the blockchain network. The
blockchain executes a proof-of-work consensus mechanism to
verify the transaction between vehicle owner and customer.
Finally, the miners solve the complex puzzle and get rewarded
for validating the block of transactions. So, the transaction
of the ride-sharing is stored inside the blockchain compels
the proposed framework to be reliable and secure from data
manipulation and injection attacks.
WS21 IEEE ICC 2022 Workshop on Blockchain for Secure Software-defined Networking in Smart Communities
855Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:27:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1: The proposed system.
Algorithm 1 Blockchain data storage algorithm.
Input: IPFS(h,k), Υ, λ∆a , Λδc , ρbr
Output: Data added to the blockchain
1: procedure STOREDATA BLOCKCHAIN(λ∆a , Λδc , Υ)
2: if E ∈ E∆a then
3: for i = 1, 2, . . . , d do
4: IPFS(h,k) ← Rq for Data(∆a)
5: ∆a
Φ←− Υ
6: Smart contract executes
7: if Φ == valid then
8: ∆a
λ∆a←−−− IPFS (h, k)
9: blockchain← Req to add(∆a)
10: if λ∆a ∈ ρbr then
11: Data added to Blockchain
12: else
13: Access denied
14: end if
15: else
16: Invalid certificate
17: end if
18: end for
19: else if E ∈ Eδc then
20: for j = 1, 2, . . . , t do
21: IPFS(h,k) ← DataReq(δc)
22: δc
Φ←− Υ
23: Smart contract executes
24: if Φ == valid then
25: δc
Λδc←−−− IPFS(h,k)
26: blockchain← Req to add(δc)
27: if Λδc ∈ ρbr then
28: Data added to blockchain
29: else
30: Access denied
31: end if
32: else
33: Invalid certificate
34: end if
35: end for
36: end if
37: end procedure
D. Problem Formulation
The proposed system include various elements E ∈
{E∆, Eδ, EΥ} in which element E∆ consists of d number
of vehicle owners {∆1,∆2, . . . ,∆d} ∈ ∆a and element Eδ
consists of t number of customers {δ1, δ2, . . . , δt} ∈ δc along
with their hash keys λ∆a
and Λδc interacting with element EΥ,
i.e., u number of certificate authority {Υ1,Υ2, . . . ,Υk} ∈ Υp
to authenticate themselves for ride sharing with the help of
approval certificate (Φ) . δc can request ∆a to book a ride for
a particular destination by paying the certain amount from their
wallet. The above mentioned association between elements can
be represented as follows:
∆a(λ∆a)
η−→
t
′∑
c=1
δc(Λδc) and δc(Λδc)
η−→
d
′∑
a=1
∆a(λ∆a) (1)
δc(Λδc)
η−→
k
′∑
p=1
Υp and ∆a(λ∆a
)
η−→
k
′∑
p=1
Υp (2)
t
′
≤ t; d
′
≤ d; k
′
≥ t
′
; k
′
≥ d
′
(3)
c, a, p ≥ 0 (4)
where η denotes the association between ∆a, δc, and Υp. t’̂
number of customers and d’̂ number of vehicle owner are
communicating with k’̂ number of certificate authority (ΥΦ)
for Φ.
Now, vehicle owners ∆a and customers δc need to get
authenticated to store their privacy information in the IPFS
data storage protocol. Therefore, we have considered the
certificate authority Υ to approve them for data storage in IPFS
by providing them with Φ. Once ∆a and δc get the approval
certificate from certificate authority, smart contract executes
to validate their data storage rights for IPFS with the help of
Φ. If smart contract gives the approval to both the users, i.e.,
∆a and δc, then they can easily access and store their privacy
information in the IPFS. IPFS can return the favor by sending
them the hash keys Ξ∆a
∈ {Ξ∆1
,Ξ∆2
, . . . ,Ξ∆d
} for vehicle
owners and ξδc ∈ {ξδ1 , ξδ2 , . . . , ξδt} for customers.
∆a
β−→
d
′′∑
a=1
Ξ∆a
and δc
β−→
t
′′∑
c=1
ξδc (5)
d
′′
≤ d, r > 0, t
′′
≤ t (6)
where β signifies the association of vehicle owner and cus-
tomer with d
′′
and t
′′
number of hash keys.
Finally, users, i.e., vehicle owners ∆a and customers δc
contain the hash keys Ξ∆a
and ξδc that can be utilized
further for storing their data transactions about the rides to
the blockchain network. But, for that, they should satisfy a
certain condition, i.e., hash keys Ξ∆a and ξδc associated with
the users should resonate with the hash of the blockchain. Hash
WS21 IEEE ICC 2022 Workshop on Blockchain for Secure Software-defined Networking in Smart Communities
856Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:27:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
of the block header (ρbr) in the blockchain can be determined
using the previous hash of the block (Θbr
pv) and data block
(µbr
db). The mentioned entities can be represented as follows:
d
′′∑
a=1
∆a(Ξ∆a
)
ϑ−→ ρbr(Θ
b
pv, µ
br
db) (7)
t
′′∑
c=1
δc(ξδc)
ϑ−→ ρbr(Θ
br
pv, µ
br
db); (8)
where ϑ denotes association of hash keys Ξ∆a
and ξδc of ∆a
and δc with ρbr.
So, users, i.e., vehicle owners and customers can securely
add the ride-sharing transactions to the blockchain. Now, δc
can reliably book the rides made accessible by the vehicle
owners ∆a. Algorithm 1 explains the complete procedure to
perform the data storage of vehicle owners and customers in
the IPFS. So that transactions between users can be performed
securely with the time complexity of O(d) and O(t).
Also, 6G network has been employed in the proposed sys-
tem so that users can communicate with each other with high
efficiency and reliability due to its various aspects such as high
data rate (DR6G
H ), low latency (La6GNet), and high availability
(Av6GH ). It also improves the customer’s traveling experience
via ride-sharing. The features of 6G can be represented as
follows:
La6GNet < 1ms (9)
DR6G
H < 10Gbps (10)
Av6GH = 99.9999% (11)
Algorithm 2 Reverse stackelberg game for optimal data
pricing.
Input: ∆a, δc
Output: N
Γ∆a
Γδc
1: procedure OPT PAYOFF(∆a, δc)
2: if E ∈ ∆a then
3: for i = 1, 2, . . . , d do
4: Γop
δc
σ−→ ΠΓδc
(Pfop
Γ∆a
(Γδc ),Γδc )
5: Gammaδc
k−→ min
∑b
′
d=1
∑h
′
u=1(θd, τu)
6: end for
7: else
8: for j = 1, 2, . . . , t do
9: PfΓ∆a
n−→ ΠΓ∆a
(PfΓ∆a
(Γop
δc
(PfΓ∆a
,Γop
δc
(PfΓ∆a
)
10: Γ∆a
n
′
−−→ max
∑b
′
d=1
∑h
′
u=1(θd, τu)
11: end for
12: end if
13: for each players for optimal payoff do
14: (Γop
δc
,Γδc ) < N
Γ∆a
Γδc
< (PfΓ∆a
,Γ∆a )
15: {∆a, δc}getmaximumpayoffN
Γ∆a
Γδc
16: end for
17: end procedure
III. REVERSE STACKELBERG GAME THEORY APPROACH
The proposed system has introduced the reverse stackelberg
game theory approach to provide ∆a and δc with the optimal
data pricing for ride-sharing. In the proposed system, a reverse
stackelberg game consists of two players vehicle owner ∆a
and customer δc in which we have considered ∆a as leader
and δc as follower. The reverse stackelberg game works in such
a way that initially δc as a follower decides upon the strategy
Γδc in which customers prefer to travel shortest route from the
number of routes {τ1, τ2, . . . , τh} ∈ τu available for rides and
travel to the destination by paying the minimum price. The
prices assigned to the number of routes are {θ1, θ2, . . . , θb}
∈ θd. Based on the decided strategy of the follower, i.e.,
customer, vehicle owner as a leader takes the further action to
choose its strategy Γ∆a
in such a way that ride-sharing should
be favorable to them. Strategy Γ∆a
is chosen so that they want
their cars to take from the longer path and want to charge high
prices to the customers.
Now, strategies of ∆a and δc can be defined in the form of
variables such as Γ∆a
∈ Ξ∆a
⊆ R and Γδc ∈ Ξδc ⊆ R with
the cost function considered as Πa : Γ∆a
* Γδc in which a
lies between {Γ∆a , Γδc} and a path function PfΓ∆a
∈ (Γδc ¿
Γ∆a ) . So, optimal strategy of customer Γop
δc
associated with
the above mentioned entities can be represented as follows
[18]:
Γop
δc
σ−→ ΠΓδc
(PfopΓ∆a
(Γδc),Γδc) (12)
Γδc
k−→ min
b
′∑
d=1
h
′∑
u=1
(θd, τu), d ≥ 0, u ≥ 0 (13)
where σ denotes the customer’s strategy based on which
vehicle owners can try to optimize their payoff in the ride-
sharing. k signifies the individual strategy of the customer,
which will not affect any other users. So, according to the
optimal strategy Γop
δc
of the customer as a follower in the
reverse stackelberg game, vehicle owner Γ∆a as a leader adopt
an optimal strategy defined in the form of function, which can
be mentioned as follows [18]:
PfΓ∆a
n−→ ΠΓ∆a
(PfΓ∆a
(Γop
δc
(PfΓ∆a
,Γop
δc
(PfΓ∆a
) (14)
Γ∆a
n
′
−→ max
b
′∑
d=1
h
′∑
u=1
(θd, τu) (15)
where n signifies the strategy of in vehicle owners Γ∆a
ac-
cording to the strategy of the customer. So, we have discussed
the strategies associated with the customer as a follower based
on which leader can choose their strategy to maximize their
payoff. So, we have to define a special condition in which
both users can be satisfied with the pricing. As Γδc as a
follower chooses to travel through the shortest route, they have
to pay the minimum price for traveling. And, if Γ∆a
follow its
decision to choose the strategy for their profit, then they prefer
rides to travel through longer route and charge maximum
prices from customers. Therefore, there is an existence of
reverse stackelberg equilibrium between Γ∆a
and Γδc in which
both the users can get the optimal payoff (NΓ∆a
Γδc
) by adapting
the strategy in favor of them, which can be mentioned as
follows:
(Γop
δc
,Γδc) < N
Γ∆a
Γδc
< (PfΓ∆a
,Γ∆a
) (16)
So, in applied reverse stackelberg equilibrium game-based
approach, customer considered as the follower firstly choose
the strategy, then leader prepares the strategy by following the
customer’s decision [19]. But, both the users cannot be on the
same level in terms of profit as one may suffer the loss due to
route or pricing. This leads to the scenario of an equilibrium
that assures profit for both the users making it convenient for
utilizing the ride-sharing. Furthermore, Algorithm 2 describes
WS21 IEEE ICC 2022 Workshop on Blockchain for Secure Software-defined Networking in Smart Communities
857Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:27:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
the procedure of obtaining optimized payoff between vehicle
owners and customers during ride-sharing. The time complex-
ity involved in the payoff can be computed in O(d) and O(t).
Fig. 2 shows the detailed procedure to optimize the payoff
for vehicle owners and customers to enable secure ride-sharing
in the blockchain-based proposed system. The procedure ini-
tiates with the system model considered as the input, which is
further classified into three layers, i.e., Data acquistion layer,
Transaction layer, and Blockchain layer. Moreover, a reverse
stackelberg game theory has been applied to get the desired
payoff for vehicle owners and customers at an equilibrium.
Fig. 2: Sequence flow of the proposed system.
IV. SECURITY VERIFICATION OF THE PROPOSED SYSTEM
In this section, security analysis of the smart contracts of
the proposed system has been performed over the smartcheck
tool. We have executed the source code from the Ethereum
platform to detect the security issues in the proposed system.
Fig. 3 depicts the working of the smartcheck tool in such a
way that it verifies that the source code of the proposed system
does not have any threat or vulnerability. But, smartcheck tool
generates one severity in the source code by default as depicted
in Fig. 4 [20]. We have also removed that identified severity
from the source code as depicted in Fig. 3.
Fig. 3: Security analysis of proposed system over smartcheck.
Fig. 4: Security analysis over smartcheck by default.
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF THE PROPOSED SYSTEM
In this section, the results of the blockchain-based proposed
system have been evaluated for secure and efficient ride-
sharing between vehicle owners and customers using a reverse
stackelberg game theory approach to get the desired optimized
payoff for users. For that, the simulation of the proposed
system has been performed on Remix integrated development
environment (IDE) by executing the smart contracts using
a solidity high-level language. Finally, the simulation of the
experimental results has been evaluated considering the com-
munication latency, blockchain scalability, and payoff analysis,
which can be represented as follows:
A. Communication latency
Fig. 5 illustrates the latency comparison between 4G, 5G
and 6G network interface. The 6G-assisted base station op-
erates on terahertz frequencies that bring ubiquitous high
data rates and low latency communication [21]. Both the
parameters data rates and latency are essential in enhancing
the performance of the ride-sharing systems. From the graph,
Fig. 5: Latency comparison.
we can depict that as the number of transactions increases,
the latency of the 6G network decreases, ensuring faster
communication between entities in the ride-sharing systems.
On the contrary, the conventional cellular systems, such as
the 4G and 5G networks, show severe delays as the number
of transactions increases. Consequently, it deteriorates the
performance of the ride-sharing system.
B. Blockchain scalability
Fig. 6 shows the scalability comparison between traditional
blockchain and IPFS-based blockchain. It is evident from the
paramount benefits of IPFS, i.e., cost expensive and storing
hashed data instead of raw data makes this technology more
scalable than the traditional blockchain layer. Moreover, the
graph displays that as the number of transactions increases,
the scalability of the IPFS technology increases. This happens
because the IPFS is cost-free, and it processes the hashed data
instead of raw data, due to which more users are incorporating
it in their application.
C. Payoff analysis
Fig. 7 shows the payoff optimization of the proposed Stack-
elberg game with the increase in the number of transactions.
It can be observed from the graph that as the number of
transactions increases, the payoff of the game converges to an
optimal point. The game has a reverse stackelberg equilibrium
where players can optimize their payoffs. The output of the
reverse stackelberg equilibrium is that player 1 plays a strategy
on which player 2 depends. Hence, the graph highlights that
WS21 IEEE ICC 2022 Workshop on Blockchain for Secure Software-defined Networking in Smart Communities
858Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:27:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 6: Scalability comparison.
the payoffs remain the same between the players after a
particular point, i.e., equilibria.
Fig. 7: Payoff analysis.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, a blockchain-based secure and optimal data
pricing system is proposed integrated with a 6G network. We
have introduced the IPFS with blockchain to enable low-cost
data storage for vehicle owners and customers. We explored
the conventional systems to understand their trust, privacy,
latency, reliability, payoff, and cost-efficiency issues. We have
observed and analyzed that the employed IPFS with the 6G
network ensures efficient and reliable data transmission in the
system. Furthermore, we have formulated a reverse stackelberg
game theory approach in the blockchain system to optimize
the profit for users. Finally, the proposed system has been
implemented on Remix Integrated Development Environment
(IDE) by executing the smart contracts using the solidity
programming language. At last, the performance of the pro-
posed system has been evaluated considering the terms such
as latency, scalability, and the optimal payoff for the system
by differentiating it from the conventional systems. The results
show that the proposed system is highly secure, reliable, and
cost-efficient.
In the current scenario, we have applied a reverse stack-
elberg game theory between two players, i.e., vehicle owner
and customer for optimizing the payoff. In the future work,
we can apply a game theory approach for multiple number of
users to enable the profitable and dynamic ride-sharing in the
proposed system.
REFERENCES
[1] H. M. Amar and O. A. Basir, “A game theoretic solution for the
territory sharing problem in social taxi networks,” IEEE Transactions
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2114–2124,
2018.
[2] C. Huang, R. Lu, J. Ni, and X. Shen, “Dapa: A decentralized, account-
able, and privacy-preserving architecture for car sharing services,” IEEE
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 69, no. 5, pp. 4869–4882,
2020.
[3] A. J. Qarebagh, F. Sabahi, and D. Nazarpour, “Optimized scheduling for
solving position allocation problem in electric vehicle charging stations,”
in 2019 27th Iranian Conference on Electrical Engineering (ICEE),
pp. 593–597, IEEE, 2019.
[4] U. M. Aı̈vodji, K. Huguenin, M.-J. Huguet, and M.-O. Killijian, “Sride:
A privacy-preserving ridesharing system,” in Proceedings of the 11th
ACM Conference on Security & Privacy in Wireless and Mobile Net-
works, pp. 40–50, 2018.
[5] X. Wang, Z. Ning, M. Zhou, X. Hu, L. Wang, Y. Zhang, F. R. Yu, and
B. Hu, “Privacy-preserving content dissemination for vehicular social
networks: Challenges and solutions,” IEEE Communications Surveys &
Tutorials, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1314–1345, 2018.
[6] G. Guo and Y. Xu, “A deep reinforcement learning approach to ride-
sharing vehicle dispatching in autonomous mobility-on-demand sys-
tems,” IEEE Intelligent Transportation Systems Magazine, vol. 14, no. 1,
pp. 128–140, 2022.
[7] “Driverauth: A risk-based multi-modal biometric-based driver authen-
tication scheme for ride-sharing platforms,” Computers & Security,
vol. 83, pp. 122–139, 2019.
[8] Y. He, J. Ni, X. Wang, B. Niu, F. Li, and X. Shen, “Privacy-preserving
partner selection for ride-sharing services,” IEEE Transactions on Ve-
hicular Technology, vol. 67, no. 7, pp. 5994–6005, 2018.
[9] M. Baza, N. Lasla, M. M. E. A. Mahmoud, G. Srivastava, and
M. Abdallah, “B-ride: Ride sharing with privacy-preservation, trust and
fair payment atop public blockchain,” IEEE Transactions on Network
Science and Engineering, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 1214–1229, 2021.
[10] R. Kakkar, R. Gupta, S. Tanwar, and J. J. P. C. Rodrigues, “Coalition
game and blockchain-based optimal data pricing scheme for ride sharing
beyond 5g,” IEEE Systems Journal, pp. 1–10, 2021.
[11] S. Tyagi, S. Tanwar, S. K. Gupta, N. Kumar, and J. J. Rodrigues,
“A lifetime extended multi-levels heterogeneous routing protocol for
wireless sensor networks,” Telecommun. Syst., vol. 59, p. 43–62, may
2015.
[12] D. Wang and X. Zhang, “Secure ride-sharing services based on a
consortium blockchain,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 8, no. 4,
pp. 2976–2991, 2021.
[13] C. Xu, K. Zhu, C. Yi, and R. Wang, “Data pricing for blockchain-based
car sharing: A stackelberg game approach,” in GLOBECOM 2020 - 2020
IEEE Global Communications Conference, pp. 1–5, 2020.
[14] H. M. Amar and O. A. Basir, “A game theoretic solution for the
territory sharing problem in social taxi networks,” IEEE Transactions
on Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2114–2124,
2018.
[15] P. Bhattacharya, S. Tanwar, R. Shah, and A. Ladha, “Mobile edge
computing-enabled blockchain framework—a survey,” in Proceedings
of ICRIC 2019 (P. K. Singh, A. K. Kar, Y. Singh, M. H. Kolekar,
and S. Tanwar, eds.), (Cham), pp. 797–809, Springer International
Publishing, 2020.
[16] M. Naz, F. A. Al-zahrani, R. Khalid, N. Javaid, A. M. Qamar, M. K.
Afzal, and M. Shafiq, “A secure data sharing platform using blockchain
and interplanetary file system,” Sustainability, vol. 11, no. 24, p. 7054,
2019.
[17] D. Reebadiya, T. Rathod, R. Gupta, S. Tanwar, and N. Kumar,
“Blockchain-based secure and intelligent sensing for autonomous ve-
hicles activity tracking beyond 5g networks,” Peer-to-Peer Networking
and Applications, 02 2021.
[18] N. Groot, B. De Schutter, and H. Hellendoorn, “Reverse stackelberg
games, part i: Basic framework,” in 2012 IEEE International Conference
on Control Applications, pp. 421–426, 2012.
[19] C. Xu, K. Zhu, C. Yi, and R. Wang, “Data pricing for blockchain-based
car sharing: A stackelberg game approach,” in GLOBECOM 2020 - 2020
IEEE Global Communications Conference, pp. 1–5, 2020.
[20] A. L. Vivar, A. T. Castedo, A. L. S. Orozco, and L. J. G. Villalba, “An
analysis of smart contracts security threats alongside existing solutions,”
Entropy, vol. 22, no. 2, 2020.
[21] S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, I. Budhiraja, and N. Kumar, “Tactile internet for
autonomous vehicles: Latency and reliability analysis,” IEEE Wireless
Communications, vol. 26, no. 4, pp. 66–72, 2019.
WS21 IEEE ICC 2022 Workshop on Blockchain for Secure Software-defined Networking in Smart Communities
859Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:27:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.