Utilizing Blockchain Technologies with IoT: Review Paper
4th International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and Their Applications (IICETA-2021), Islamic University, AL-
Najaf, Iraq 
 
978-1-6654-9461-8/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE                                      270 
Utilizing Blockchain Technologies with IoT: Review 
Paper 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Abstract—The core aim of the internet of things is providing 
communication capability between huge numbers of different 
entities "things". The Abundance feature of connected devices to 
the emergence of many security challenges for IoT data, which in 
turn stimulate researchers to search for appropriate solutions. 
The Blockchain is one of the security technologies which consider 
as a game changer in safeguarding the internet of things data. 
Through its impact, it has made the addition of more devices into 
the Blockchain ecosystem. Boosting the security of devices used 
in IoT to accelerate the rate of adoption of Blockchain technology. 
The main aim of this paper is to investigate the current literature 
to determine how the management of IoT has become 
independent and widespread doing away with the need of having 
to rely on one entity in the storage of data in the new technology, 
Blockchain assumes the role of a database making it different 
from the storage methods used in the past. In addition to, the 
authors have organized the utilization of Blockchain in a well-
defined structure. Finally, this paper concluded that by 
utilization of Blockchain results in improved security and 
distribution using devices such as sensors which are connected 
efficiently with the aim of coming up with a secure database 
which gives rise to lots of business opportunities in the future.  
Keywords—Internet of Things, Security, Blockchain   
 
I. INTRODUCTION AND LITERATURE REVIEW 
IoT  can be defined as the interconnection via the Internet of 
computing devices embedded in everyday objects, to provide the 
facilities and abilities to send and receive data among them. The 
connection of physical objects has been made easy by the 
implementation of the Internet of Things in the last few years. The 
connection between objects can either be wired or wireless through the 
use of IoT nodes which are very useful in improving the quality of life 
for everyone in society [1]. For instance, the Internet of Things has 
made healthcare more efficient because of the establishment of e-
health solutions. Researchers in various fields are actively looking for 
ways and means of coming up with more complex solutions. 
Additionally, there are numerous solutions based on principles laid 
down by the Internet of Things in the intelligent transportation system 
and environmental monitoring [2]. 
There are large numbers of devices that use the Internet of Things to 
help in the generation of extensive data on the internet. Data generated 
by IoT is sensitive and critical. Owing to the large amount of data 
passed over the Internet of Things devices, robust communication  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
technologies are used to ensure reliability and the delivery of data and 
information. Some of the communication technologies that have been  
put into use are cellular networks, Bluetooth capabilities, ZigBee and 
cognitive radio networks [3]. 
The concept of Blockchain was brought forward by [4] but has gained 
popularity. Software scientists have given the Blockchain technology 
undivided attention raising its abilities in the transformation and 
optimization of global infrastructure. According to [5], Two fields 
have been felt the influence of Blockchain technology:  
1) Elimination of central servers leading resulting in peer-to-peer 
interactions thereby making communication more efficient. 
2) Improved transparency to various databases thus improves 
transparency in governance and political elections. 
In the same aspect. Blockchain technology is built on four principles 
with the first one being a consensus which makes proof of work 
principle possible. The role of the proof of work enabled by consensus 
is the verification of actions in the Blockchain network. Fig. 1 
visualizes the application domains of Blockchain. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. The Application Domains of Blockchain 
As clearly shown in Fig. 1, the second pillar is ledger which keeps the 
information on various transactions in the Blockchain network, and the 
third is cryptography that ensures 
Security. Cryptography ensures that every bit of data in the network 
ledgers is encrypted and the only person with the ability to decrypt is 
the authorized user. A fourth pillar is a smart contract used to verify 
and validate the participants in a network. IoT has spread like a 
bushfire, and its impact can be felt on almost every field, but due to its 
fast evolution, it has become prone to cyber threats. Currently, the 
primary goal is to enhance the security of IoT [5]. 
In 2013, Blockchain technologies were positively impacted through 
the presentation of a state machine that is transaction based. 
Mays Adel Khaki 
Dept. Computer Science 
Iraqi Commission for Computers and 
Informatics 
 Informatics Institute for Postgraduate  
Baghdad, Iraq 
maisalreem92@yahoo.com 
Intisar Shaheed Al-Mejibli 
University of Information Technology 
and Communications (UOITC) 
Baghdad, Iraq 
dr.intisar.almejibli@gmail.com 
 
Amer S. Elameer 
University of Information Technology 
and Communications (UOITC) 
Baghdad, Iraq 
amerelameer@yahoo.com    
 
 
20
21
 4
th
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l I
ra
qi
 C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 E
ng
in
ee
rin
g 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
 a
nd
 T
he
ir 
A
pp
lic
at
io
ns
 (I
IC
ET
A
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
94
61
-8
/2
1/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
II
C
ET
A
51
75
8.
20
21
.9
71
79
69
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4th International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and Their Applications (IICETA-2021), Islamic University, AL-
Najaf, Iraq 
271 
 
Blockchain technologies are significantly used nowadays because it 
maintains privacy in transactions, data immutability, authorization, 
system transparency, and data integrity.  It is important to note that 
Blockchain technology is widely applied in various sectors besides 
cryptocurrencies [2]. Besides, adopting Blockchain innovation shows 
that there is a promising future in IoT space and the business world 
[6]. Owing to its significant impact on society, the primary goal of this 
paper is to offer full guidance on the use of technology. Case examples 
are used throughout the document to ensure that security and trust are 
fully developed. 
 
In the rest of this paper, an overview of existing Blockchain 
application was highlighted, followed by how in incorporate IoT 
devices management system on the Blockchain, also Blockchain 
utilization, Blockchain platforms. Finally, the limitations of using 
Blockchain in the management of the internet of things 
II. THE EXISTING BLOCKCHAIN APPLICATIONS  
To achieve a well-designed Blockchain application, three steps need 
to follow: 
A. New Frontier in Data Exchange Framework 
     Blockchain technology offers help to IoT devices facilitate the 
exchange of data. Companies and business organization have the 
choice of using Blockchain to extract data from asset-based devices or 
the quick response code (QR Code). Devices that can use the internet 
help in searching through Blockchain records to either update of 
validating transactions. For instance, an IoT device connected to the 
Blockchain is moved with site-specific and heat sensitive information 
which can either be updated or modify information on the Blockchain 
ledger[7]. The remove updates allow all the parties involved to be in a 
position of sharing data and the status of the package as they navigate 
from one community to the other. The sharing of data and package 
status is crucial in ensuring compliance with conventions [8]. 
B. Steps To Build a Sensational Blockchain Application 
       Step1: Identify the Use-Case 
       Step2: Select The App’s Consensus Mechanism 
       Step3: Ascertain the Most Suitable Platform  
       Step4: Design the Architecture 
       Step5: Application Configuration 
       Step6: Building APIs 
       Step7: Admin & UI Designing 
       Step8: Identifying Problem Areas & Scaling 
III. INCORPORATE IOT DEVICES MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM ON THE BLOCKCHAIN 
There are many distinct advantages to the idea of building 
intelligent machines capable of communicating and operating across 
the Blockchain network. Initially, there is the issue of censorship 
where data transactions between various networks and organizations 
are recorded permanently. The permanent recording means that 
monitoring goods moving through various points in the supply chain 
is made more efficient. Logs made in the Blockchain network can only 
be tracked and evaluated by everyone who is authorized to gain access 
to the network [9]. In a case where an error occurs leading to leaking 
of data to unauthorized people, the network can detect the point of 
weakness and is set for fixation. 
The second advantage is the use of encryption and a widespread 
system of storage which means that data can be trusted by all parties 
involved in the supply chain. The machines will securely record the 
details of transactions between them, without any form of human 
control [2]. A person can only replace transactions recorded on 
Blockchain with access key referred to the private key. No inaccurate 
information can be fed on the transactions. 
Thirdly, the Smart Contract facilities offered by some Blockchain 
technology networks, such as Ethereum, permit the formation of 
agreements whenever conditions are fulfilled. This is probably very 
useful when it comes to, for example, authorizing one payment system 
when conditions indicate that a service has been provided [6].  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Blockchain Utilization with IoT 
Fourthly, the Blockchain technology system boosts the security of 
online transactions. Much of the data generated by Internet things is 
very personal - for example, smart home appliances can access 
intimate details relating to our everyday life. These are the kind of data 
that must be amongst devices and platforms to make it meaningful in 
our lives[10]. However, it also means that there are more opportunities 
for hackers to attack us [2].  
Companies and governments investing in the internet also have to 
deal with this growing range of data breaches perpetrated by criminals, 
competitors, and enemies. Moreover, above the fact that it will provide 
new opportunities, there is a possibility of resembling Blockchain 
technology and the Internet of Things in the future. This is only 
possible if the current Internet object model which refers to devices 
attached to the Blockchain network via the central storage and cloud 
storage service - continues to emerge; systems are likely to become 
increasingly bloated, with data volumes still increasing, as well as the 
number of connected devices.        
 
In the other aspect, the cloud services are likely to become 
bottlenecks due to the large volumes of data passed through them[11]. 
Rather than using an expensive data center, Blockchain provides a data 
storage network through the interconnection of many computer 
devices which form the network [8]. 
In line with the above situations, it has been realized that there is 
a well-defined structure should exist to use as a guideline for 
utilization Blockchain with IoT, Hence, Fig. 2 illustrates it. 
IV. BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS  
 
There are five most popular types of blockchain platforms: Ethereum, 
Hyperledger Fabric, Ripple, R3 Corda, and Quorum. In the next 
paragraphs, a brief description for each one is highlighted : 
 
1) Ethereum: Ethereum is one of blockchain platform which 
provides the possibility for any developer to write and distribute next-
generation decentralized applications. According to literature, 
Ethereum considering as the best blockchain platforms. 
2) Hyperledger Fabric: Are one of the blockchain platforms 
implementation and one of the Hyperledger projects hosted by The 
Linux Foundation. Intended as a foundation for developing 
applications or solutions with a modular architecture, Hyperledger 
Fabric allows components, such as consensus and membership 
services, to be plug-and-play. 
3) Ripple: Is a real-time gross settlement system (RTGS), currency 
exchange and remittance network. 
  
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4th International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and Their Applications (IICETA-2021), Islamic University, AL-
Najaf, Iraq 
272 
 
4) R3 Corda: Corda has been developed to service the specific needs 
of financial services with generations of disparate legacy financial 
technology platforms that struggle to interoperate, causing 
inefficiencies, risk, and spiraling costs. 
5) Quorum: Is an enterprise-focused version of Ethereum. Quorum 
is ideal for any application requiring high-speed and high-throughput 
processing of private transactions within a permission group of known 
participants. 
From the discussion above, the authors prefer the Ethereum platform 
as a general Blockchain due to Ethereum provide usability and free 
open source  [7]. 
     According to literature, most developers utilize either Ethereum 
while the other developers utilize Hyperledger fabric. Therefore,  a 
comparison between two blockchain platforms was conducted 
 ( Hyperledger fabric, Ethereum). Table I  shows the comparison. 
 
TABLE I.  COMPARISON BETWEEN BLOCKCHAIN PLATFORMS 
Classification Hyperledger Fabirc Ethereum 
Description of 
Platform 
General purpose 
blockchain ( not just 
used for payments ) 
General purpose 
blockchain ( just used 
for payments) 
Governance Linux Foundation Ethereum Developers 
Currency None Ether 
Mining Reward N/A A static block reward for 
the ‘ winning’ block, 
consisting of exactly 5.0 
Ether 
State Key-value database Account data 
Consensus Pluggable:PBFT Proof of work 
Network Permissioned Public or   Permission 
Transaction Public or Confidential Anonymous or Private 
Privacy Open to Private Open  
Smart Contracts Yes ( Chaincode ) Yes (Solidity, Serpent, 
LLL ) 
Program 
Languages 
Java, Golang Golang, C++, Python 
Scalability Claims to be scalable None 
V. SMART CONTRACT 
       A smart contract is a digital contract aimed for running contract 
independently without human involvement. It includes scripts that are 
lodged in the blockchain. The contract gets information from other 
peers and houses the value and feedback along with a result. A smart 
contract is awakened on receiving transactions. Eventually, it ends up 
executing the default condition with each node in the blockchain 
network depending upon the transactional contents [12].  
      In case, the transactional contents comply with the smart contract, 
the transaction is then fulfilled automatically but if not, the transaction 
just fails. 
     Any business model including a contract can make efficient use of 
smart contract to reduce the response duration. The price paid to the 
middlemen is also cut down, as in the case of running a real estate, one 
does need to hunt for a real estate agent. No landlord needs to stash 
extra fee to the middlemen. The use of it ranges so long that even 
automobile organizations are ready on their feet to invest in blockchain 
and smart contract [13].  
     The insurance businesses are glad to witness the development of 
technology as now they can hand out various insurance contracts 
depending upon the driver’s driving style. With the huge collection of 
data, the insurance companies can construct reasonable and accurate 
content [14]. The Table II below provides a list of these applications 
in various areas. 
 
 
TABLE II.  APPLICATION 
Ref. Classification Goal   
[15] Provenance.org 
 
The pillar of Provenance is a system for 
tracking materials and products on a 
blockchain: secure, inclusive and public, if you 
need to provide the guarantee or prove to be 
authentic. 
[16] Renault vehicle 
maintenance 
history tracking 
 
This fresh blockchain-based non-physical car 
maintenance book is maintained digitally, and 
it attempts to collect all the information to one 
place that can easily be accessed by customers. 
For instance, if you’d like to sell your car, the 
info regarding that can be put up as in the 
vehicle’s history by providing the potential 
buyer the authority to access all the data 
pertaining to it in the digital book. 
[17] Passport 
management 
 
The digital passports to use blockchain 
technology, which implies that every individual 
has the authority to control the info that’s added 
about them and who has the right to view it. The 
citizens of a place can opt to add details such as 
their financial information, location or mobile 
numbers. 
[18] Medrec 
 
The medical records are stored in the form of a 
checklist in the smart contract. It also manages 
to pay fees paid by the patient for their services. 
Then, it is sent to the clinic when the doctor 
applies the smart contract conditions. 
 
VI. BLOCKCHAIN UTILIZATION 
A. The blockchain is founded on the following elements:  
 Decentralization: The technology provides all the users in the 
network with a given level of control. In other platforms, control 
is not centralized because all the users with legitimate access 
have a given level of control. 
   Digital Signature: The technology permits the use of digital 
signatures dependent on public keys and unique keys for 
verification purposes. The public key is the decryption code on 
the network. Special keys are only known by the administration 
(Blockchain).  
   Mining: It has a Distributed distributor enumeration system that 
verifies and stores conversions in mining blocks through the use 
of stringent rules. 
   Data integrity: The use of complex algorithms and consensus 
among users ensures that transaction data is not manipulated once 
agreed. The data stored on the Blockchain acts as a single copy 
of the truth to all parties involved, thus reducing the risk of fraud. 
B. Implementing Blockchain Technology 
       The platform can be deployed in three categories [5]:  
 Public: In this band, the engaged nodes can send and receive 
transaction messages. Each has the rights of participating in the 
establishment of a consensus without requesting any form of 
permission. Petchemin and Ethereum are in this category. 
    Consortium area: Here, there is partial permission which means 
that only specific nodes have the right to get involved in the 
establishment of a consensus. Read and send permit is provided 
for the authorized peers. 
 Private: In this category, permission is mandatory. The 
organization that owns the network can only write transactions. 
The permitted contracts can only read transactional data. 
C.    Consensus Mechanisms Mostly used in Blockchain   
       Three predominant mechanisms provide consensus in a    
Blockchain [19],[ 20]: 
   Proof-of-Work: Is one approach. It is instrumental in securing 
transactions and making Blockchain network tamper-proof. It is 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4th International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and Their Applications (IICETA-2021), Islamic University, AL-
Najaf, Iraq 
273 
 
demanding regarding resources such as computer power and 
electric power before it can offer a consensus [21].  
 Proof-of-Stake: Refers to the algorithm for consensus that makes 
it possible for everyone to mine or authorize transactions. Proof 
of stake is defined by the number of crypto coins (Bitcoin) a mine 
owns. The higher the number of crypto coins reserved by a mine, 
the more the mining power possessed[22]. 
 Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT)  :  Algorithms are designed to 
avoid attacks and software errors that cause faulty nodes to 
exhibit arbitrary behavior (Byzantine faults). BFT [19] provides 
consensus despite the participation of maliciously misbehaving 
(Byzantine) nodes.  
VII. LIMITATIONS OF USING BLOCKCHAIN IN THE              
MANAGEMENT OF THE INTERNET OF THINGS 
The advantages provided by using blockchain to manage IoT do not 
come without their challenges. These revolve mainly around the 
secure deployment of both technologies. The main challenges 
affecting the safety of [3]: 
    Systems on the internet are hardly standardized. Different 
organizations use protocols and technologies that they consider 
best for their needs. In this patchwork, it is difficult to come up 
with a solution that would work for all the technologies in use.  
    Most applications need to communicate with each other on the 
internet. This means that they are vulnerable to attacks at the 
point of communication. 
   One must secure the Internet contract for individual things. 
   To ensure successful deployment of internet objects, minimum 
security should be guaranteed by the applications. 
   A global privacy standard should be created for the successful 
deployment of Internet objects.  
In addition to the above challenges related to the deployment of 
Internet objects, there are also problems associated with the 
application of blockchain technology to internet objects[23]. The 
problems include: 
      1) Scalability: There is a need to test whether the design of 
blockchain platforms is scalable when it comes to dealing with 
scalable internet systems. 
      2) Lightweight architectures and designs: The design and structure 
of the blockchain protocol should be lightweight to reduce the 
overheads associated with blockchain. This should also be done while 
maintaining that the level of security and privacy remains the same as 
that in the traditional system. 
     3) Computational Power: Traditional internet systems vary things 
with a vast range of capabilities. It is not possible to encrypt all internet 
point objects in a given process. Therefore, a procedure must be 
created to do the encryption through nodes or other mechanisms that 
have the lowest load in holding internet objects. 
It may not be possible to perform encryption at all Internet point’s 
objects in process scenarios. Therefore, some mechanisms should be 
devised to perform encryption using a set of nodes or Internet 
mechanism objects that have a minimal load in holding Internet 
objects. 
     4) Storage: Blockchain technology is suitable for decentralized 
Internet systems because it lacks central control. However, every 
Internet node needs things to be stored A Ledger increases in size  
with time. Internet points (IoT) objects may not be able to store a large 
amount of data. 
     5) Optimal design: The Internet system must design the best things 
with security and privacy-based blockchain as an essential element. 
This will result in an ideal design that gives equal priority to 
connection and calculation coordination, security, and privacy. 
     6) Legal Issues: Security and privacy standards vary in different 
countries and regions. This represents a severe challenge to the 
successful adaptation of blockchain technology in Internet objects 
systems. A standard framework is needed that manufacturers can use 
to provide security and privacy solutions. 
VIII. SYSTEM  ARCHITECTURE 
             Issues of compatibility are the main reason why most internet 
objects fail to work with blockchain system. Incompatibility results 
from lack of adequate hardware resources. In other Internet platforms, 
incompatibility issues are solved through the adoption through the use 
of a virtual machine architecture that has partitions. To solve the 
problem of interoperability in Blockchain, the same technique can be 
applied in Blockchain technology. 
Some of the components that make up the Blockchain   Architecture 
is discussed here [24]. 
A. Aryl Blockchain Node 
       The node is connected to the Ethereal Cocktail just like in any 
other blockchain node. The node functions in devices that are capable 
of allowing interactions in the blockchain and plays the role of 
monitoring the smart contract [24].  
In the following paragraphs, the explanations about Ethereum 
Blockchain component are highlighted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. Ethereum Blockchain 
B. Alkyl Virtual Machine: This virtual machine relies on the Aryl 
blockchain node, and therefore it has to wait for assistance from the 
run-time system as well. The fact that it has relied on the assistance 
of other components doesn’t mean that the Internet device has to 
work on other things while on waiting mode. On receiving the 
request, Alkyl Virtual Machine executes instructions received in the 
right manner[7]. Therefore, the Aryl blockchain node is considered 
as being a positive node considering the Alkyl Virtual Machines 
connected [24]. Fig. 4 visualizes Blockchain platform for industrial 
internet of things (BPIIoT). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. BPIIoT Archetacture 
As clearly shown in fig. 4, this platform consists of three layers:  
proximity networks, a service platform, and domain applications as 
well as the data flow and control flow among these components. 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4th International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and Their Applications (IICETA-2021), Islamic University, AL-
Najaf, Iraq 
274 
 
IX. EXISTING RESEARCH ON SECURITY AND PRIVACY IN 
BLOCKCHAIN- BASED IOT   
A. Authentication 
       This paper summarizes the security and privacy of IoT based on 
the blockchain system, a new scheme for the authentication of closed 
and transient graphs that offer assistance in block-based identity 
management systems [25]. 
B. Privacy-preserving 
 Blockchain technology is built on a foundation of the philosophy that 
there is a private key that can be used to unlock the encryption of 
digital assets. This key is the largest vulnerability since it has to be 
stored somewhere either on paper, on a disk or the cloud [3]. 
C. Trust 
This is the major selling point for the adoption of blockchain 
technologies. For example, a payment system is based on blockchain 
that is fixed in remote zone settings. Therefore, the proposal is that an 
intermittent connection is made to the Central Bank System [26]. 
X. THE BENEFIT OF USING THE BLOCKCHAIN WITH 
IOT 
According to [2], There are four main recommendations while using 
the IoT.  
        1) Remain confident: Through IoT Blockchain technology, 
devices are allowed to communicate as trusted peers. Two 
communicating devices don’t know each other, and all the transactions 
exchanged between them are recorded permanently[27]. 
Organizations and businesses can, therefore, use the technology 
without fearing loss of integrity for their data and information. 
       2) Reduce the cost: IoT technology devices lower transaction costs 
through the removal of intermediaries. IoT technology makes the use 
of peer to peer communication which helps eliminate additional costs 
which in the traditional forms of communication. 
      3) Accelerate data exchange: Enhanced data exchanges such as 
"intermediary man" (Internet portal things or any medium change 
device) are disbursed from the process. Block-based contracts and 
notebooks reduce the time needed to complete the transmission of IoT 
device information and time used in processing. 
     4) Improved Security in the Internet Things Environment:  The use 
of decentralized technologies plays a significant role in the storage and 
retrieval of information from large numbers of interconnected devices. 
The exchange of data and security of the interconnected devices have 
been enhanced as well. Ways in which the distributed system helps in 
to solve issues that relate to security and reliability [28]: 
 Blockchain technology can be used in the of sensors to do away 
with the inclusion of malicious tracking of data measurements 
through the user data. 
 Simplifies internet deployments because a distributed ledger 
works better in the provision of device identity in the internet, and 
smooth transfer of data. 
 Eliminates the need of using a third party in the creation of the 
trust. Sensors in distributed architecture help in exchange of data 
objects in the blockchain. 
 A distributed ledger eliminates chances if system failure because 
if one machine fails, the others still function thus helpful in IoT 
Data protection. 
 Gives room by assigning every device a unique identity and 
securing data. Peer to peer communication helps in the 
elimination of bottlenecks and cases of inefficiency. 
 Reduction in the cost of operating internet objects. Moreover, 
publishing because intermediaries are not involved in operations. 
 Various Internet devices can handle issues directly through the 
use of which provides an easy way of troubleshooting devices. 
XI. LESSONS LEARNED 
In line with the above situation, it can be concluded that information 
can only be valid if it is verified by an independent third party. This is 
a decentralized system in which everything is run by a single 
individual or organization. This has been the only way in which we 
have ensured that information is transparent traditionally. 
TABLE III.  SUMMARY OF BLOCKCHAIN  LITERATURE 
Ref 
no. 
Summarized 
Objective Solution Remarks 
 
 
 
[3] 
To provide a 
distributed 
approach for 
security and 
privacy for smart 
homes 
Authors proposed a 
modified blockchain 
scheme for smart 
homes 
The proposed 
scheme analyzed 
regarding primary 
security goals, i.e., 
confidentiality, 
integrity, and 
availability 
 
 
 
[29] 
To reduce the 
complexity and 
computation for the 
use of blockchain 
for IoT systems 
Authors divided IoT 
systems into the 
multi-level 
decentralized 
network based on 
blockchain 
technology 
The proposed 
multi-level network 
based on 
blockchain is a 
feasible solution for 
secure IoT network 
 
 
 
[30] 
To investigate the 
prospect of 
blockchain for the 
information 
distribution in IoT 
systems 
A design is presented 
to analyze that how 
existing security 
schemes can be made 
more powerful with 
the use of blockchain  
Authors discussed 
how Key security 
requirement could 
be satisfied by the 
use of blockchain 
technology 
 
 
 
 
[28] 
To provide a 
systematic 
literature review on 
blockchain for the 
IoT 
Many use cases are 
discussed for the use 
of blockchain to 
address high lighting 
issues, as well as 
open research issues, 
are pointed out in 
blockchain for IoT  
Three factors are 
taken into account, 
i.e., integrity, 
anonymity, and 
adaptability 
 
 
 
[10] 
To check the 
feasibility of 
blockchain for IoT  
Different challenges 
in IoT are 
highlighted, and their 
potential solutions 
based on blockchain  
Overall, it is 
emphasized how 
blockchain 
technology can 
improve security in 
IoT systems 
 
 
 
 
[31] 
Design and 
development of the 
Internet of Smart 
Things (IoST) and 
use blockchain 
technology for 
secure 
communication 
Authors used a 
permission-based 
blockchain protocol 
called Multichain for 
secure 
communication 
among smart things 
The multichain 
protocol offers low 
communication 
cost and is a 
suitable choice for 
IoT solutions 
 
 
[32] 
Develop a 
lightweight 
architecture based 
on blockchain for 
IoT systems 
The proposed 
lightweight 
architecture was 
validated for the use 
case of smart homes 
The proposed 
architecture offers 
less overhead 
regarding packets 
and processing 
 
 
 
[11] 
Study the 
effectiveness of 
blockchain for 
better availability 
and accountability 
in IoT systems 
Develop a prototype 
of the IoT system for 
better understanding 
It is concluded that 
the availability is 
significantly 
improved using 
blockchain 
technology 
 
The integrity of the information is lost, and the system can no longer 
be trusted.  
Besides, the blockchain is an open-source distributed ledger that uses 
cryptography to verify, track and record transactions in a network. The 
objective is to find out whether this technology, when used in 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4th International Iraqi Conference on Engineering Technology and Their Applications (IICETA-2021), Islamic University, AL-
Najaf, Iraq 
275 
 
conjunction with the Internet of Things devices can improve supply 
chains in businesses through increasing efficiency, trust in the integrity 
of the process, openness, traceability, and customer satisfaction. Table 
III  list a  summary of recent literature on blockchain with IoT. 
 
XII. CONCLUSION  AND FUTURE WORK 
In the context of this paper, the overview of blockchain technology has 
been introduced, the importance of technological advancement that 
can be built on the internet with the integration of computing and 
transaction processing systems. By utilize blockchain technology,  
We've done expensive IoT tools because of the high costs associated 
with cloud infrastructure and other factors such as network equipment.  
In the coming years, we hope that changes to the organization of the 
blockchain and improvements to the encryption formula to increase 
the security of social networks using another model of the hyper ledger 
or BigchainDB and even use a consensus Algorithm like Proof of 
Authority and Delegated Proof of Stakes.  
 
REFERENCES 
     [1] L. Atzori, A. Iera, and G. Morabito, "The internet of things: A 
survey," Computer Networks, vol. 54, pp. 2787-2805, 2010. 
     [2] M. A. Ferrag, M. Derdour, M. Mukherjee, A. Derhab, L. Maglaras, 
and H. Janicke, "Blockchain Technologies for the Internet of 
Things: Research Issues and Challenges," arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1806.09099, 2018. 
     [3] M. A. Khan and K. Salah, "IoT security: Review, blockchain 
solutions, and open challenges," Future Generation Computer 
Systems, vol. 82, pp. 395-411, 2018. 
     [4] S. Nakamoto, "Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system," 
2008. 
     [5] M. Singh, A. Singh, and S. Kim, "Blockchain: A game changer for 
securing IoT data," in the Internet of Things (WF-IoT), 2018 IEEE 
4th World Forum on, 2018, pp. 51-55. 
    [6] M. Conoscenti, A. Vetro, and J. C. De Martin, "Blockchain for the 
Internet of Things: A systematic literature review," in Computer 
Systems and Applications (AICCSA), 2016 IEEE/ACS 13th 
International Conference of, 2016, pp. 1-6. 
    [7] S. Huh, S. Cho, and S. Kim, "Managing IoT devices using 
blockchain platform," in Advanced Communication Technology 
(ICACT), 2017 19th International Conference on, 2017, pp. 464-
467. 
    [8] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H. Dai, X. Chen, and H. Wang, "An overview of 
blockchain technology: Architecture, consensus, and future 
trends," in Big Data (BigData Congress), 2017 IEEE International 
Congress on, 2017, pp. 557-564. 
    [9] B. Mo, K. Su, S. Wei, C. Liu, and J. Guo, "A Solution for the 
Internet of Things based on Blockchain Technology," in 2018 
IEEE International Conference on Service Operations and 
Logistics, and Informatics (SOLI), 2018, pp. 112-117. 
   [10] D. M. Mendez Mena and B. Yang, "Blockchain-Based 
Whitelisting for Consumer IoT Devices and Home Networks," in 
Proceedings of the 19th Annual SIG Conference on Information 
Technology Education, 2018, pp. 7-12. 
   [11] M. Muzammal, Q. Qu, and B. Nasrulin, "Renovating blockchain 
with distributed databases: an open source system," Future 
Generation Computer Systems, vol. 90, pp. 105-117, 2019. 
   [12] P. McCorry, S. F. Shahandashti, and F. Hao, "A smart contract for 
boardroom voting with maximum voter privacy," in International 
Conference on Financial Cryptography and Data Security, 2017, 
pp. 357-375. 
   [13] Y. Zhang and J. Wen, "The IoT electric business model: Using 
blockchain technology for the internet of things," Peer-to-Peer 
Networking and Applications, vol. 10, pp. 983-994, 2017. 
   [14] K. Christidis and M. Devetsikiotis, "Blockchains and smart 
contracts for the internet of things," Ieee Access, vol. 4, pp. 2292-
2303, 2016. 
   [15] A. Ramachandran and D. Kantarcioglu, "Using Blockchain and 
smart contracts for secure data provenance management," arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1709.10000, 2017. 
   [16] K. L. Brousmiche, A. Durand, T. Heno, C. Poulain, A. Dalmieres, 
and E. B. Hamida, "Hybrid cryptographic protocol for secure 
vehicle data sharing over a consortium blockchain," Proceedings 
of IEEE Blockchain, vol. 2018, 2018. 
   [17] A. Norta, "Designing a smart-contract application layer for 
transacting decentralized autonomous organizations," in 
International Conference on Advances in Computing and Data 
Sciences, 2016, pp. 595-604. 
   [18] A. Azaria, A. Ekblaw, T. Vieira, and A. Lippman, "Medrec: Using 
blockchain for medical data access and permission management," 
in Open and Big Data (OBD), International Conference on, 2016, 
pp. 25-30. 
   [19] O. Arabaci, "Blockchain consensus mechanisms: the case of 
natural disasters," ed, 2018. 
   [20] M. Milutinovic, W. He, H. Wu, and M. Kanwal, "Proof of luck: 
An efficient blockchain consensus protocol," in Proceedings of the 
1st Workshop on System Software for Trusted Execution, 2016, p. 
2. 
   [21] A. Bahga and V. K. Madisetti, "Blockchain platform for industrial 
internet of things," Journal of Software Engineering and 
Applications, vol. 9, p. 533, 2016. 
   [22] J. J. Sikorski, J. Haughton, and M. Kraft, "Blockchain technology 
in the chemical industry: Machine-to-machine electricity market," 
Applied Energy, vol. 195, pp. 234-246, 2017. 
   [23] A. Ouaddah, H. Mousannif, A. A. Elkalam, and A. A. Ouahman, 
"Access control in the Internet of Things: Big challenges and new 
opportunities," Computer Networks, vol. 112, pp. 237-262, 2017. 
   [24] J. Ellul and G. J. Pace, "AlkylVM: A Virtual Machine for Smart 
Contract Blockchain Connected Internet of Things," in New 
Technologies, Mobility and Security (NTMS), 2018 9th IFIP 
International Conference on, 2018, pp. 1-4. 
   [25] T. M. Fernández-Caramés, P. Fraga-Lamas, M. Suárez-Albela, and 
L. Castedo, "Reverse Engineering and Security Evaluation of 
Commercial Tags for RFID-Based IoT Applications," Sensors, 
vol. 17, p. 28, 2016. 
   [26] A. Dorri, S. S. Kanhere, R. Jurdak, and P. Gauravaram, 
"Blockchain for IoT security and privacy: The case study of a smart 
home," in Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops 
(PerCom Workshops), 2017 IEEE International Conference on, 
2017, pp. 618-623. 
   [27] H. T. Vo, A. Kundu, and M. K. Mohania, "Research Directions in 
Blockchain Data Management and Analytics," in EDBT, 2018, pp. 
445-448. 
   [28] Z. Zheng, S. Xie, H.-N. Dai, and H. Wang, "Blockchain challenges 
and opportunities: A survey," Work Pap.–2016, 2016. 
   [29] W. Ejaz and A. Anpalagan, "Blockchain Technology for Security 
and Privacy in the  Internet of Things," in the Internet of Things 
for Smart Cities, ed: Springer, 2019, pp. 47-55. 
   [30] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, "Security and privacy in 
decentralized energy trading through multi-signatures the 
blockchain, and anonymous  messaging streams," IEEE 
Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, vol. 15, pp. 
840-852, 2018. 
   [31] M. Samaniego and R. Deters, "Internet of Smart Things-IoST: 
Using Blockchain and CLIPS to Make Things Autonomous," in 
Cognitive Computing (ICCC), 2017 IEEE International 
Conference on, 2017, pp. 9-16. 
   [32] D. von Leon, L. Miori, J. Sanin, N. El Ioini, S. Helmer, and C. Pahl, 
"A Performance Exploration of Architectural Options for a 
Middleware for Decentralised Lightweight Edge Cloud 
Architectures," in International Conference on Internet of Things, 
Big Data and Security, 2018. 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:54:13 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.