Blockchain-Based Renewable Energy Trading Using Information Entropy Theory
1
Blockchain-based Renewable Energy Trading
Using Information Entropy Theory
Ziming Liu, Student Member, IEEE, Bonan Huang, Xuguang Hu, Pengbo Du, and Qiuye Sun, Senior
Member, IEEE
Abstract—Renewable energy sources (RES) and electric ve-
hicles (EVs) are widely recognized as primary ways to reduce
carbon emissions and essential components of low-carbon power
systems. However, both of them have strong uncertainties which
bring great challenges to power transactions and the operation
of power grids. This paper defines the uncertainty cost of
wind power producer(WPP) in day-ahead(DA) market pricing
based on information entropy theory for the first time and
proposes a EV charging management strategy with DA contract.
The constructed low-carbon emission electricity market(LCEM)
quantifies the uncertainty cost and contracts the disordered
charging of EVs. It reduces the uncertainty and ensures the
balance of power supply and demand. In addition, the transaction
between WPP and EVs is described as the Stackelberg game, and
its communication network is constructed through a blockchain
network to ensure transaction efficiency and privacy security.
Experiments show that LCEM can accurately measure the
uncertainty of wind power generation, increase the net profit
for WPP by more than 2% when the prediction error is greater
than 10%, and adopt EV contract charging management in the
DA market to minimize charging costs.
Index Terms—Renewable energy trading, Stackelberg game,
information entropy, blockchain, low-carbon emissions.
NOMENCLATURE
Abbreviations
DA Day-ahead
EV Electric vehivles
IE Information entropy
LCEM Low-carbon emission electricity market
RES Renewable energy sources
RT Real-time
WPP Wind power producer
Indexes
N Set of EV nodes
i Sequence number of the EV node
This work was supported in part by the National Key Research and
Development Program of China under Grant 2018YFA0702200, the National
Natural Science Foundation of China under Grants U20A20190 and 62073065
and the Liaoning Revitalization Talents Program under Grant XLYC2007181.
(Corresponding author: Qiuye Sun and Bonan Huang.)
The authors are with the School of Information Science and
Engineering, Northeastern University, Shenyang 110004, China.
(e-mail: 1900721@stu.neu.edu.cn; huangbonan@ise.neu.edu.cn;
huxuguang@stumail.neu.edu.cn 2170939@stu.neu.edu.cn; sun-
qiuiye@ise.neu.edu.cn).
Manuscript received xxx xx, xxxx; revised xxxx xx, xxxx.
X Set of power generation forecasts
Parameters
η
cha/discha
t Charge and discharge efficiency of en-
ergy storage at t
λav Average value of DA price
a Information entropy capacity compensa-
tion coefficient
BES,ini Initial energy storage capacity
HM Maximum entropy of the system in prob-
abilistic scenarios
k1 Conversion coefficient of information en-
tropy price
k2, k3 Conversion coefficient of information en-
tropy capacity
T LCEM transaction cycle
x Power generation forecast
Variables
λIE Information entropy electricity price
λ
(·)
t Price of electricity in market (·) at t
BES Energy storage capacity
Bi Battery capacity of EV node i
bt Boolean variable for transaction status
H System information entropy
P (x) Probability of random forecast
PRES WPP purchases electricity from RES out-
side the market with contract in DA mar-
ket
P
RT,Sell/Buy
ES,t Electricity sold/buyed by energy storage
in RT market at t
P
(·)
i,t Charging power of EV node i at time t
in (·) market
P
discha/cha
t Energy storage discharge/charge power at
period t
SIE Information entropy electricity capacity
t Charging period of EVs
I. INTRODUCTION
THE electricity market serves as a concrete expression of
energy policy. It is an essential measure to deal with
the energy crisis caused by the expansion of population and
industries, and the climate deterioration caused by excessive
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2
carbon dioxide(CO2) emissions [1]. In addition, the develop-
ment of renewable energy sources(RES) and low-carbon loads
in new power systems also aim to solve the above problems
[2]–[4]. However, the increase in the proportion of low-carbon
loads such as electric vehicles(EVs) and RES such as wind
power generation has brought new challenges to the low-
carbon emission electricity market(LCEM) [5]–[7].
The uncertainty of RES in LCEM poses security challenges
and economic losses. For example, wind power generation
under the control of mechanical devices aims to maximize
generation capacity but does not consider the power balance
of the grid [8]. If there are critical deviations in wind power,
conventional generators will be used to provide deficit energy,
or the grid will abandon excess wind power. Thus, there
is an urgent need for an economical and efficient solution
to smooth out wind power fluctuations for efficient use of
renewable energy [9]. At the same time, EVs as the alternative
to traditional fossil fuel vehicles, can effectively reduce CO2
emissions, but their centralized charging will pose an impact
on the stability of the grid [10]–[12]. Therefore, countries are
establishing new spot electricity markets in response to the
above problems, including a balancing market to deal with the
uncertainty of renewable energy generation. For example, the
European balancing market determines the balancing clearing
price based on the invoked energy offer [13]. They use
methods such as zonal marginal pricing and weighted average
pricing to settle unbalanced energy. Researchers are also pay-
ing more attentions to the problem. Huang et al. [14] proposed
a Cournot equilibrium model for energy storage providers in a
market where wind power producer(WPP) is the main energy
supplier, which boosted social welfare. However, the model
did not consider the influence of accurate measurement of
WPP generation uncertainty on the equilibrium solution. Shen
et al. [15] proposed a real-time (RT) energy management algo-
rithm based on Lyapunov stochastic optimization considering
the charging characteristics of EVs and the demand uncertainty
without knowing the RT price. Moreover, market mechanisms
for EV charging were also established [16].
The above-mentioned does not account for the uncertain
cost of renewable energy generation in the day-ahead(DA)
market. What’s worse, the adjustment method by the balancing
market will cause too much damage to the interests of RES.
Given the increasing penetration of RES, it is urgent to estab-
lish a mechanism to more accurately quantify the uncertainty
of generation to ensure its reasonable participation in market
to promote renewable energy development [17].
Information entropy(IE) was proposed by Shanon to mea-
sure the uncertainty of information sources in the 1940s [18].
Since the IE theory was proposed, it has played a great role in
measuring uncertainty. Recently, researchers interest in using
it to describe the uncertainty of renewable energy generation
power [19], [20]. This measure of uncertainty can be seen
as one of the costs of RES market pricing. Meanwhile, to
charge EVs orderly, they need to be reasonably guided by price
signals in the DA market [21]. Transaction between EVs and
RES could facilitate the construction of a regional LCEM.
All along, the cost of RES is regarded as zero when market
pricing except for construction and maintenance. However,
this is contrary to the incentive compatibility principle in
the electricity market. Moreover, existing studies often use
value-at-risk to measure the uncertainty of RES [22], which
overemphasizes economic attributes and ignores power infor-
mation, resulting in insufficient knowledge and guidance for
RES. Also, the orderly charging of EVs needs to be reasonably
guided by the price signals of the electricity market. Therefore,
the pricing of RES plays a crucial role in balancing the supply
and demand of energy in the process of trading with EVs. The
novelties compared to the existing work mentioned above are
as follows. An LCEM between WPP and EVs is constructed.
Using IE in the DA market quantifies the uncertainty cost of
WPP and leverages the flexibility of EV charging. A decen-
tralized transaction is designed using blockchain technology
to ensure the power balance while protecting privacy.
This paper aims to quantify the uncertainty of renewable
energy by introducing IE and incorporating it into the pricing
of the DA market to more accurately measure the generation
cost. In the constructed LCEM, the EVs are charged orderly
through price signals in DA market contract. In this market,
RES producers such as WPP act as market price makers.
Controllable loads such as EVs are price takers. However,
as a flexible load, EVs can choose the best charging method
according to their interests, which affects the pricing of WPP.
Therefore, we describe the relationship between WPP and EVs
as the Stackelberg game. WPP is the leader in the game, and
EVs are the followers in the game. When the game reaches
equilibrium, the optimal pricing strategy and charging method
for both parties are obtained. As we all know, the Stackelberg
game is a dynamic game with complete information. There-
fore, to protect the privacy and security of market participants,
corresponding systems need to be established. Blockchain is
one of the core infrastructures of the future value Internet. Its
core application value lies in establishing trust and solving
the trust problem in the information world. Moreover, it has
the advantages of traceability, openness, transparency, and the
prevention of a single point of failure. Therefore, we use the
blockchain network to build the communication network of the
market. To sum up, we construct a blockchain-based electricity
trading market between WPP and EVs. The market considers
the uncertainty of WPP and the flexibility of EV charging
and reduces carbon emissions on the premise of ensuring the
multi-party interests of the market and the balance of supply
and demand.
The main contributions and organization are given as fol-
lows:
• An LCEM considering renewable energy uncertainty is
constructed, which promotes the reduction of carbon
emissions through market transactions.The market en-
sures a balance between supply and demand in the region
through electricity trading between WPP and EVs.
• An uncertainty cost based on IE for the WPP power
generation forecast is defined. It is introduced into DA
pricing as a factor affecting WPP pricing strategy to
reduce the impact of power generation uncertainty on the
market economy.
• An information system based on blockchain technology
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3
is constructed to support the complete information feature
of the Stackelberg game. The blockchain guarantees the
transparency of transactions for all entities in the system.
• The Stackelberg game pricing is transformed into
a mixed linear integer programming(MILP) problem
through karush-kuhn-tucker(KKT) optimality conditions
and strong duality theory, and the feasibility and effec-
tiveness are verified by the Ethereum platform.
The rest of our article is organized as follows. Section
II describes the mathematical model of the main entites. In
section III, a blockchain-based Stackelberg game electricity
trading market for WPP and EVs is proposed. Section IV
presents the results of the digital simulation. Finally, the
section V summarizes the main work of this paper.
II. RELATED WORK
With the increasing penetration of renewable energy, mul-
tiparty collaboration and data sharing have become the de-
velopment trend of electricity market. In order to establish
the trust relationship between trading parties and maintain
the trustworthiness of the collaboration and sharing process,
the blockchain technology, which is de-trusted, open and
transparent, is one of the important infrastructures for the
development and construction of LCEM.
Researchers have made many contributions to work related
to blockchain-based renewable energy trading schemes. Men-
gelkamp et al. [23] proposed a blockchain-based P2P local
energy market for microgrids with a framework consisting of
seven components. Small-scale energy trading was realized
in the community of Brooklyn. Although it promotes local
renewable energy consumption, it does not consider the uncer-
tainty of renewable energy and specific pricing mechanisms.
Hua et al. [24] designed a marketplace for energy and carbon
allowances in the framework of blockchain trading. The frame-
work provides overall planning of carbon emission shares on
the user side. However, the reduction of carbon emissions
on the user side contributes less to the low-carbon network
of the environment than on the generation side. Doan et al.
[25] proposed a blockchain energy trading market based on
bilateral auction theory. The interests of buyers and sellers are
maximized through the game theory approach. However, this is
a small-scale P2P transaction, and its users are only household
users relatively single, which has limited contribution to re-
ducing carbon emissions. Similarly, petri et al. [26] proposed
an energy community for energy transactions between pro-
sumers, in which the behavior and benefits of transactions are
recorded in a blockchain system. Smart contracts constrain the
trading scenarios and user behavior of this energy community.
However, the community-level energy contribution is less in
terms of carbon emission reduction compared to renewable
energy participation in the electricity market. Similar work
was done by Zhang et al. [27] based on demand response. The
authors [28] proposed an RT market that uses prosumers and
EVs to smooth out renewable energy fluctuations. The market
uses smart contracts to compute and publish power balancing
trading plans. The blockchain is responsible for recording
transactions and regulating the users. However, this work
imposes a tremendous cost on renewable energy generators to
smooth out power fluctuations in the RT market, reducing their
incentive to develop it. Similarly, Bischi et al. [29] proposed a
blockchain-based multi-temporal energy trading market. Pre-
trading based on renewable energy forecasts is performed in
the DA market. Then, power imbalances due to generation de-
viations are traded in the RT market. Baza et al. [30] proposed
a privacy-preserving Vehicle-to-Vehicle(V2V) energy trading
scheme, and not only that, the blockchain architecture is also
well robust to cyber attacks. In contrast, the authors have
also proposed a V2V trading scheme, and the work focuses
on the pricing of energy transactions and the design of user
reputation. In addition, the authors [31] have analyzed V2V
transaction models for different scenarios. As a flexible load,
the inclusion of EVs in the overall energy trading market
would enhance the reduction of carbon emissions and help
to smooth out the volatility caused by RES. Christidis et al.
[32] designed three configurations of local energy blockchain
to analyze energy transactions. It gives the analysis of market
efficiency under different secret key scenarios. However, it did
not consider the problems caused by the specificity of the
market transaction subjects. For example, the participation of
renewable energy generators in the market will bring changes
to the transactions.
The blockchain-based energy trading schemes mentioned
above have contributed to the construction of low-carbon
networks. However, these works have the following short-
comings: First, the implementation scale is small, and they
do not consider the participation of RES. Although they can
reduce the peak load to a certain extent, they have limited
contribution to reducing the overall carbon emissions. Second,
research on renewable energy participation in market trading
often uses only RT regulation to cope with power fluctuations.
The method seriously undermines the profitability of RES
and limits its development. Third, the situation of the subject
considered in the design of the blockchain framework is
too homogeneous. The performance of the blockchain is not
sufficiently adaptable when the users lead to a huge change
in demand and decision-making. The research proposed in
this paper quantifies the uncertainty cost of RES using IE
theory and incorporates it into the DA market clearing. The
scheme maximizes the benefits of RES while considering the
uncertainty of RES. Meanwhile, the scheme constructs an
LCEM considering EVs and RES. Smart contracts deployed on
Ethernet, the largest platform for blockchain, are responsible
for regulating and recording transactions, and their measure-
ment metrics are more relevant and acceptable.
III. DEFINITION AND MODELS OF LCEM
In this section, the mathematical model of the related enti-
ties in LCEM is established. As the primary energy supplier
in the proposed market, WPP sets the charging price for EVs
in the market by calculating the electricity prices of other RES
and the charging time of EVs. We assume that EVs participate
in the blockchain-based electricity market by connecting to
the distribution network through the charging pile. Moreover,
according to the information on the chain, the pile can trigger
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4
TABLE I
RELATED WORKS ON BLOCKCHAIN-BASED RENEWABLE ENERGY TRADING SCHEMES
Reference [23] [26] [30] [31] [29] [32] [24] [25] [27] [28] Our scheme
Objective Prosumers EV MG MG+Prosumers MG+EVs MG+EVs
RES uncertainty N N N Y Y Y
Measure Optimal scheduling Optimal scheduling Game theory Game theory Optimal scheduling Game theory
Experimental environment Hyperledger Ethereum Hyperledger Ethereum Ethereum Ethereum
the smart contract to calculate the optimal charging strategy
and execute it automatically.
Let i ∈ N = {1, 2, ..., N} denote the index the nodes of
EVs in market. Participants in LCEM interact through decision
periods consisting of t ∈ T .
A. Problem Description
In LCEM, the decision that WPP needs to make is to set
the electricity price for each period. Unlike the convention
optimization problem, WPP’s profit depends on the charging
strategy of EVs, which is not directly controlled by WPP but
depends on the price set by WPP. We assume that the average
electricity price for one day is fixed. If WPP raises the price
in a certain period, there will be other periods when the price
is lower than the average. The smart piles will automatically
choose the time when the charging cost is low. Since EVs can
choose their charging time, they are no longer the ”takers” of
the price.
More importantly, the competitive relationship between
WPP and EVs is described by the Stackelberg game shown
in Fig. 1. The interests of each party are maximized and the
market is cleared at the equilibrium of the game. In addition,
the market sets up an uncertainty cost for the uncertainty of
WPP generation. The charging demand of EVs is transformed
into deterministic load demand through the power purchase
contract with WPP, which reduces the disturbance of the
supply-demand balance in the LCEM caused by random
charging and discharging behavior.
B. Wind Power Producer Model
In DA market, WPP enters into contracts with other energy-
supplying RES outside the market and power-purchasing EVs,
and publishes electricity price information for each period
of the next day. Since WPP’s generation characteristics do
not necessarily meet the supply-demand balance, it needs to
determine the amount of electricity to be purchased from other
RES for each period.
The power shortage by wind power generated is purchased
from other RES in DA and RT markets. The electricity price
in the RT market is usually higher than that in the DA market,
which will cause the loss of WPP’s interests. Therefore,
this paper introduces the uncertainty cost to quantify the
uncertainty of WPP in the DA market. It is reflected in the
corresponding energy storage device for WPP. The model
describing the supply-demand balance of the market that WPP
needs to satisfy is given next
Charging price range
Leader
Upper-level decision maker: 
Wind Power Producer
Follower
Lower-level decision maker: 
Electric Vehicles
Objective:  Maximize the profit of WPP
Objective:  Minimize the cost of charging
Market clearing process: Converting 
Stackelberg Game to Mixed Linear 
Integer Programming (MILP)
Decision variables Constraint
Buying/Selling electricity
Information entropy cost
Energy storage power range
Charging cost
Decision variables
Charging power
Constraint
Total Charge Power
Charging power range
EV charging price 
Energy storage power
Buying renewable energy range
Selling electricity range
Battery capacity of EV
Charging period
P
r
ic
e
 sig
n
a
ls
C
h
a
r
g
in
g
 s
tr
a
te
g
y
Fig. 1. Low-carbon emissions electricity market Stackelberg game framework.
∑
i∈N
PDA
i,t + P chat − P dischat = PRESt + PRT,SellES,t − PRT,BuyES,t
(1)
where PDA
i,t is the charging power contract of EV node i in
DA market, PRESt is the contracted electricity purchased by
WPP in the DA market with other RES at time t, and PRT,SellES,t
and PRT,BuyES,t are the power sold and bought by WPP in the
RT market with RES, respectively. P chat and P dischat are the
charging and discharging powers of the energy storage devices
at time t and their constraints are as follows
0 ≤ P chat ≤ btP chat,max (2)
0 ≤ P dischat ≤ (1− bt)P dischat,max (3)
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
5
where P chat,max and P dischat,max are the charging and discharging
limits of the energy storage device at time t. bt is a Boolean
variable of energy storages status that ensures the energy
storage device cannot be charged or discharged at the same
time.
bt =
{
1 transaction status
0 non-transactional status (4)
Similarly, the transaction constraint in the RT market is as
follows
0 ≤ PRT,Buyt ≤ bRTt PRT,Buyt,max (5)
0 ≤ PRT,Sellt ≤ (1− bRTt )PRT,Sellt,max (6)
where PRT,Buyt,max and PRT,Sellt,max are trading amount constraints,
which are determined by the surplus power of other RES and
WPP in the system.
The reserve of energy storage device changes as follows
[33], 
0 < BES,t = BES,t−1 + P chat ηchat
−P dischat /ηdischat ≤ BmaxES,t
BES,1 = BES,ini
(7)
where Bini is the initial reserve of the energy storage device,
Bt is the power of the energy storage device at period t, and
ηchat and ηdischat are the charging and discharging efficiency.
The uncertainty cost of wind power generation is quantified
by the IE. This method was proposed by Shannon C. E.
to determine the amount of information [18]. Therefore, the
value of the amount of information can be used to indicate
uncertainty. The IE H of a random variable vector X = [x1,
x2,..., xn] can be expressed as:
H = −
∑
x∈X
P (x)lnP (x) (8)
where x is the forecasted result in a probabilistic scenario,
and P (x) is the probability of occurrence of x. In detail, x
is the WPP power generation forecast result, and P (x) is the
probability of the result appearing.
The introduction of IE can measure the uncertainty of RES
generation forecast. Furthermore, to measure the cost of the
uncertainty, we define IE price λIE and IE capacity SIE ,
and their product is the cost. The cost is paid to the energy
storage company in advance in the DA market. When the
actual deviation is less than the WPP’s IE representation, the
energy storage company can resell this part of the capacity in
the RT market without refunding the uncertainty cost.
Since the uncertainty cost of WPP is the cost paid to the
energy storage entropy in the day-ahead market, its price
cannot be higher than the RT market price. At the same time,
to encourage energy storage companies to trade with WPP at
the IE price in the DA market, the IE price should be greater
than the DA price. It is defined as follows:
λIEt = λDA
t + (
λRTt − λDA
t
λDA
t
)(1 + e
− k1(HM−H)
HM )−1 (9)
where λDA and λRT are the average value of the DA and
RT price respectively, H and HM are the IE and maximum
entropy of WPP in the scenario, and k1 is the conversion
coefficient.
SIE = k2S
RES(1− k3
(HM/H)− a
)−1 (10)
where SRES is the RES generator capacity, k2 and k3 are
the conversion coefficient, and a is the correction coefficient,
which is related to the forecast scenario.
The WPP’s objective function is to maximize its profitabil-
ity. The profit consists of four items, where the first item
represents the cost of purchasing electricity from other RES;
the second item is the revenue from selling electricity to the
day-ahead market; the third item is the revenue from the sale of
electricity in the RT market; the fourth item is the uncertainty
cost determined by the power generation department.
Max
∑
t∈T

−PRESt λDA,Buyt
+
∑
i∈N P
DA
i,t λ
DA,Sell
t
(PRT,SellES,t λRT,Sellt − PRT,BuyES,t λRT,Buyt )
−λIEt SIE
 (11)
s.t. (1)-(10), (12)-(13)
Notes that the electricity price of WPP must not be higher
than the RT price. At the same time, the upper bound of the
average price should be limited to ensure the interest of EVs.
The above constraint is expressed as follows
λDA,Sell
t,min ≤ λDA,Sell
t ≤ λDA,Sell
t,max (12)
λav =
T∑
t=1
λDA,Sell
t /T (13)
where λDA,Sell
t,min and λDA,Sell
t,max are the lower and upper bounds
of electricity price during the period t, λav is the average price
for a day.
C. Electric Vehicle Model
EVs are gradually replacing fossil-fueled vehicles because
of their low carbon emission attributes. However, their un-
certain behavior of uncontrolled charging can impact the RT
supply and demand balance of LCEM. In the model, the
decision factors of EVs are the charging period and price. For
each EV node i, its battery charging constraint is as follows
0 < PDA
i,t ≤ PDA
i,max (14)
where PDA
i,max is the maximum charging power of EV node i.
In addition, in order to ensure that the amount of each charge
meets the driving demand, its charging behavior should satisfy
the following constraints.∑
t∈T
PDA
i,t = 0.8Bi,max −Bi,ini (15)
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6
where Bi is the capacity of the EV node i power battery, Bi,ini
and Bi,max are the initial and maximum value of the capacity
of the power battery.
The objective function of EV node i is to minimize its
charging cost.
Min
∑
t∈T
PDA
i,t λ
DA,Sell
t (16)
s.t. (14) (15)
Notes that in the LCEM transaction, the EV uploads its
transaction information through the charging pile. Therefore,
the EV node i is in the parked charging state during the
planned charging period t. This paper does not consider the
sudden charging demand and the driving cost of EVs.
D. Solution of the LCEM clearing model
The transaction between WPP and EVs in LCEM constitutes
a Stackelberg game [34] that is a two-stage complete informa-
tion dynamic game as shown in Fig.1. The participants choose
their strategies according to the other party to maximize their
own benefits under the other party’s strategy. In the game
model, WPP makes a decision called the leader. Then, the
remaining EVs make decisions based on the leader’s decisions,
called followers. The leader adjusts their decision according
to the followers’ decisions, and so on until a Nash equilibrium
is reached. In addition, since the charging price λDA,Sell
t and
charging power PDA
i,t of EVs are both variables, the game
problem posed by WPP and EVs is neither a linear nor a
convex problem. Therefore, the game between WPP and EVs
should be transformed into MILP based on the KKT condition
and the strong duality theorem [35].
Transformation of the lower level problem into a KKT opti-
mality condition using Lagrange multiplier method. Equations
(14)-(16) of the lower model are transformed into equations
(17)-(20). Let the dual variable be γ1i , µ1
i,t, µ
2
i,t.∑
t∈T
PDi,tA− 0.8Bi,max +Bi,ini = 0 ⇒ E (17)
{
0 ≤ PDAi,t ⊥µ1
i,t ≥ 0
0 ≥ PDAi,t − PDAi,max⊥µ2
i,t ≤ 0
⇒ Gα
Among them, λ1i the dual variable of (17), µ1
i,t, µ
2
i,t are dual
variables of (18). E denotes the set of equation constraints and
Gα denotes the set of inequality constraints.
Lagrange function of lower level is obtained as below:
L =
∑
t∈T
PDAi,t λ
DA,Sell
t − γ1iE −
∑
α
µαGα (18)
The derivatives of the Lagrangian function with respect to
the variables in the lower level problem satisfy the following
constraint.
∂L
∂PDAi,t
= λDA,Sellt − γ1i − µ1
i,t − µ2
i,t (19)
Equation (17)-(20) convert the lower level optimization into
a constraints. However, equation (18) is nonlinear.
The constraint equation (18) is transformed into the follow-
ing linear inequality by introducing the binary variable bα.
Gαµα = 0,∀α (20)
{
0 ≤ Gα ≤ bαK
0 ≤ µα ≤ K(1− bα)
For equations (14)-(16), the following equation is obtained.
∑
t∈T
PDAi,t λ
DA,Sell
t = γ1i (0.8Bi,max −Bi,ini) +
∑
µ2
i,tP
DA
i,max
(21)
Under the KKT condition constraint, the objective function
(11) is equivalent to:
∑
t∈T

−PRESt λDA,Buyt
+γ1i (0.8Bi,max −Bi,ini) +
∑
µ2
i,tP
DA
i,max
(PRT,SellES,t λRT,Sellt − PRT,BuyES,t λRT,Buyt )
−λIEt SIE
 (22)
In summary, the pricing game can be transformed into the
following mixed integer linear programming:
Max
∑
t∈T

−PRESt λDA,Buyt
+γ1i (0.8Bi,max −Bi,ini) +
∑
µ2
i,tP
DA
i,max
(PRT,SellES,t λRT,Sellt − PRT,BuyES,t λRT,Buyt )
−λIEt SIE

(23)
s.t. (1)-(10), (12)-(13), (17), (20), (22).
Thus, it can thus be possible to find the global optimal
solution using commercial software such as YALMIP and
GRUOBI.
IV. DESIGN OF BLOCKCHAIN SYSTEM FOR LCEM
A. Overview
As shown in Fig. 2, the proposed LCEM information system
is deployed on the blockchain. RES with a good reputation
is used as the authoritative node to maintain the blockchain.
Market participants such as EVs and WPP also join the
blockchain network maintenance work as light nodes. For
WPP, the market transaction form can sell as much renewable
energy as possible, and for EVs, participating in LCEM
can obtain lower charging prices. Therefore, EVs and WPP
have enough motivation to participate in and maintain the
blockchain-based LCEM.
B. Phases
The proposed LCEM mainly includes four phases: ini-
tialization system phases, upload information phases, power
transaction phases, and distribution feedback phases. During
the initialization and upload phase, the manager deploys the
blockchain-based system, and participants who meet the low-
carbon requirements such as WPP and EVs join the blockchain
and upload data such as electricity demand, generation fore-
cast, and price information.
• Phase 1: Initialization system
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
7
FeedbackFeedback
Power Flow
Information Flow
Blockchain
Wind Power Producer
Low-carbon Emissions Electricity Market
Electric Vehicle
Information System
Power System
Smart 
Contract
Transaction 
Data
Phase I
Phase II
Phase III
Phase V
Phase II
Time Flow
DA  Market RT  Market
Phase I Phase IIIPhase III
Phase II
Phase V
Charging Data
Forecast 
Information
Return 
Transaction 
Result
Return 
Transaction 
Result
Phase V
Phase V
Phase V
Initialization
System
Feedback
Electricity
Transaction
Phase V
Pay in 
Tokens
Fig. 2. The LCEM framework based on blockchain and smart contract.
During the DA transaction initialization phase of LCEM,
the authoritative node of the system deploys the blockchain
and registers WPP nodes and EV nodes participating in
the transaction in the network. Smart contracts that solve
game pricing are deployed on the consortium blockchain. The
administrator determines the cost-saving parameters of LCEM
such as T and electricity price λav according to the actual
market situation, and uploads them to the chain. The charging
station, as a light node in the blockchain network, periodically
publishes the status information of LCEM to all roadside units
(RSUs) with cycle T . After completing the above operations,
the system administrator will be offline and not participate in
LCEM transaction management until the system parameters
need to be updated.
• Phase 2: Upload information
Before the DA market opens, WPP nodes first upload their
price λDA,Sell
t , electricity demand PRESt , and uncertainty cost
λIEt SIE . Subsequently, the EV node i upload their charging
period t and power requirements PDA
i,t . As the leader of the
Stackelberg game, WPP will publish its information on the
chain, affecting the decision-making of EV nodes i. The
EVs receive the updated service information published by
the RSUs. EVs adjust decisions according to their interests
after learning the price information published by WPP. This
information is also published on the chain, which affects the
price setting of WPP in turn.
In the RT market, WPP’s IE deviation and temporary
changes in EV’s charging strategy are updated every 15min in
a rolling optimization, with market participants’ information
updated and uploaded to the blockchain each period.
• Phase 3: Electricity transaction
At the beginning of the trading period, the authority nodes
trigger the smart contract, and WPP and EVs trade in the DA
market, and their trading prices are published on the chain
according to the results of the Stackelberg game in the smart
contract. The DA market publishes price signals according
to WPP’s generation forecasts to guide EVs to charge at
reasonable times and promote renewable energy consumption.
Based on the information obtained from RSUs, EVs that need
to be charged make autonomous decisions to receive and
participate in the LCEM with a period t for each scheduled
update. In addition, when WPP’s forecasted generation causes
a supply shortage, contracts are made and traded with other
RES in the DA market.
In the RT transaction of LCEM, the difference between
WPP IE and the actual deviation will cause a supply and
demand imbalance in the RT market. For this reason, as the
principal power producer in LCEM, WPP has to cover the
cost of deviation other than the uncertainty cost. WPP should
reduce the price of surplus power to incentivize consumption
or raise the case of energy purchase to get enough power from
other RES to ensure the balance of supply and demand.
• Phase 4: Result and feedback
Ultimately, WPP and EVs trade according to the price
published on the blockchain and pay in tokens to complete
the transaction plan TP and upload the execution results for
feedback. The final trading price of EV and WPP will be
transmitted to the chain via RSUs. After the transaction is
completed, WPP can improve its device to enhance forecast
accuracy and reduce the uncertainty cost.
Note that if participants in the market, such as EVs or
WPP, have questions about the transaction process, they can
access all the data used to generate this transaction from the
blockchain.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
8
V. CASE STUDIES
A. Experiment Environment
The effectiveness and performance of LCEM is validated
on a laptop with an Intel Core CPU i7-9750H @ 2.6 GHz, 16
GB RAM. The DA price λDAt of the LCEM for an operating
period T = 24h is modified from [36], and the RT market
price λRTt is assumed to be 1.5λDAt . The generation data of the
WPP participating in the LCEM obeys a Gaussian distribution
[37]. We modify IEEE 33-bus test feeder and place wind
generation and EV nodes in the network. WPP generation
capacity were obtained from China east coast producers [38],
and the time-of-use price of grid used to calculate λav is
sourced from [28]. The number of EVs is 80 whose driving
behavior is divided into three types, typical day, night work,
and random travel. We solve the pricing problem of the
Stackelberg game in LCEM based on YALMIP and GUROBI
under the MATLAB platform. The algorithmic procedure of
the Starkberg game for LCEM is shown in Algorithm 1.
The transaction information transmission experiment of LCEM
is to build a consortium blockchain with PoA consensus
mechanism based on Ethereum to realize on-chain functions,
and test the performance with Truffle.
Algorithm 1: LCEM Trading Mechanism
Input: RT price λRT,Sell, electricity demand PRESt ,
uncertainty cost λIEt SIE ; Energy storage
charging and discharging in RT market
P
RT,Buy/Sell
ES,t ; charging power PDAi,t of EV
node i, charging period t (i ∈ N , t ∈ T )
Output: DA price λDAt , LCEM trading plan TP
At period t, find the reserve of energy storage BES,t
and the number of charging EV i (i ∈ N )
forall t = 1; t ≤ T ; t++ do
if Nash equilibrium not achieved then
if WPP’s revenues have the potential to
increase then
Update λDA,Sellt based on Equation (11);
else
Update λDA,Sellt and PDAi,t based on
Equation (16);
else
Nash equilibrium achieved and trading
clearned;
return λDAt ; PT
B. Results and Discussions
1) Performance analysis of blockchain information systems:
The LCEM consortium blockchain information system is
designed on the Ethereum platform. The realization of its
prototype is shown in Fig. 3. It also shows the transaction
accounts of WPP and EVs, that is, the Ethereum address. The
address is represented by a hash value and has privacy protec-
tion. The gas consumption of the operation is also included.
As mentioned in Section III, the transaction account addresses
of WPP and EVs are replaced by hash values, which protect
the user’s privacy information and give the gas consumption
of the transaction process. And we demonstrate the transaction
between WPP and EV based on the METAMASK platform as
shown in Fig. 4.
Fig. 3. Blockchain test.
(a) EV charging (b) WPP profit
Fig. 4. Metamask case
The blockchain framework LCEM has excellent scalability.
Since EVs act as light nodes in the blockchain system, the
increase in their number can not be a significant burden on the
system. As shown in Fig. 5, the time delay of the blockchain
system increases slightly when the number of EVs is expanded
from the initial set of 80 to 700. However, the changes in
time delays are all at the millisecond level, and the delays
are negligible relative to the minimum scheduling time of the
power system, which is 5-15 min.
In Ethereum’s smart contracts, each data transfer requires
a certain amount of gas, so gas consumption can reflect
the overhead of performing operations on the blockchain.
Usually, this is an important criterion for measuring whether a
blockchain network design is reasonable. Fig. 6 shows the gas
consumption of the main operations that need to be performed
on the blockchain in our scheme. In the process of energy
trading based on blockchain, WPP and EVs need to upload
information and operate on the chain.
As shown in Fig. 6, due to the large amount of information
that WPP needs to upload, the reputation ranking of EVs
by smart and contract processing information is relatively
large, consuming about 600, 000 units of gas. The actual
generated data that needs to be stored is relatively less amount
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
9
1 0 0 2 0 0 3 0 0 4 0 0 5 0 0 6 0 0 7 0 03 0
6 0
9 0
1 2 0
1 5 0
Tim
e d
ela
y (
ms
)
N u m b e r s  o f  E V s
Fig. 5. LCEM Blockchain Information System Scalability for EV.
W P P  f o r e c a s t
W P P  a c t u a l  g e n e r a t i o n
E V  e l e c t r i c i t y  d a t a
D A  p r i c e
R T  p r i c e
S m a r t  c o n t r a c t
0
1 x 1 0 5
5 x 1 0 5
6 x 1 0 5
Ga
s c
ons
um
pti
on
Fig. 6. LCEM blockchain information system node gas consumption.
of operation. The number of EVs in one RSU area is small, so
the data it uploads and stores consume less gas than 100, 000.
The smart contract needs to store the transaction completion of
LCEM, so it consumes 150,000. The rest of the operations are
mainly to store data on the blockchain. Their gas consumption
is less than 150,000, which is acceptable to all nodes in the
system.
2) LCEM Transaction effectiveness: To deal with the un-
certainty of LCEM Stackelberg pricing game caused by renew-
able energy power generation and EV charging in the market,
we introduced WPP’s IE pricing mechanism and EV’s DA
contract charging method.
The optimal solution of MILP is the market clearing price
of LCEM which is the equilibrium of the Stackelberg game.
Since the MILP model is an NP-hard problem, its solution
performance is mainly influenced by variables and constraints.
The scale of LCEM is the dominant representation of the
model variables and constraints. As shown in Fig. 7, 1X
represents the original system and 2X is the scale expanded
two times. It can be seen that the computation time is still
less than the power system scheduling time(15 min) when the
system scale is expanded to 32X. When the scale is 16x or
less than the original system, the solution time of the model
is at the second level. The model shows good performance for
system scaling.
LCEM deals with the uncertainty of renewable generation in
a different way than conventional electricity markets that rely
only on RT market transactions. WPP measures it through IE
and expresses this cost in the DA market through the product
of the IE price and the IE capacity, which is paid to the energy
storage. As can be seen in Fig. 8, our mechanism has an
1 × 2 × 4 × 8 × 1 6 × 3 2 ×0 . 1
1
1 0
1 0 0
1 0 0 0
Ca
lcu
lati
on 
tim
e(s
)
S y s t e m  s c a l e
Fig. 7. Performance analysis of LCEM trading model.
advantage when the prediction accuracy is 90% and below.
Because the more uncertainty costs quantified by information
entropy in the DA market, the less high adjustment costs paid
in the RT market, and the fewer total costs incurred by WPP
due to generation errors. The net profit for WPP by more
than 2% when the prediction error is greater than 10%. This
is because the IE price is lower than the RT price. When
the RT deviation of power generation is too large due to
the uncertainty of the forecast, the high RT price will make
WPP pay too much. In contrast, our mechanism measures the
uncertainty of WPP power generation in the DA market and
converts it to cost in the DA market to the transaction with
energy storage with IE prices.
Fig. 9 shows the price changes of LCEM, RT market
electricity price, and DA price as constraints considering WPP
cost electricity price and EV charging contract in DA market.
From 3 A.M. to 8 A.M. when there is less electricity purchased
in the DA market, the WPP electricity price considering IE
cost is higher due to the high uncertainty cost. On the contrary,
when the transaction volume from 8 P.M. to 12 P.M. is large,
the cost is lower, so there is not much difference between the
price considering and not considering the IE cost.
As an important part of uncertainty cost, IE capacity is
affected by WPP generation forecast IE and WPP capacity as
shown in Fig. 10 and Fig. 11. The former shows that the IE
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
10
1 2 % 1 0 % 8 % 6 % 4 % 2 % 0 . 5 %
2 3 6 0
2 3 7 0
2 3 8 0
2 3 9 0
2 4 0 0
Pro
fit 
(Y
uan
)
F o r e c a s t  E r r o r
 W i t h  o u r  m e c h a n i s m
 W i t h o u t  o u r  m e c h a n i s m
Fig. 8. WPP total net profit.
0 5 1 0 1 5 2 0 2 5
0 . 3
0 . 4
0 . 5
0 . 6
0 . 7
0 . 8
0 . 9
1 . 0
Pri
ce 
(Y
uan
)
T i m e  ( h )
 D A  P r i c e
 W i t h  I E  P r i c e
 W i t h o u t  I E  P r i c e
 R T  P r i c e
Fig. 9. LCEM trading price changes.
1 2 % 1 0 % 8 % 6 % 4 % 2 %0
1 0
2 0
3 0
4 0
5 0
6 0
IE 
Ca
pac
ity
 (k
Wh
)
F o r e c a s t  E r r o r
 I n f o r m a t i o n  E n t r o p y  C a p a c i t y
 I n f o r m a t i o n  E n t r o p y
4
5
6
7
IE 
(N
at)
Fig. 10. Information entropy and information entropy capacity.
capacity increases as the IE increases when the WPP capacity
remains unchanged and the generation uncertainty increases.
Fig. 10 illustrates that, in the case of IE determination, the
increase of WPP capacity will lead to the increase of IE
capacity, which increases the uncertainty of WPP and reduces
its profit.
0
5 0
1 0 0
IE 
Ca
pac
ity
 (k
Wh
)
W P P  C a p a c i t y  ( M W )
 I n f o r m a t i o n  E n t r o p y  C a p a c i t y
 P r o f i t  o f  W P P
1 5 1 0 1 5 2 02 3 6 0
2 3 7 0
2 3 8 0
2 3 9 0
2 4 0 0
Pro
fit 
(Y
uan
)
Fig. 11. Profit and information entropy capacity of different capacity WPP.
1 2 % 1 0 % 8 % 6 % 4 % 2 %
2 3 6 7
2 3 7 0
2 3 7 3
2 3 7 6
2 3 7 9
Pro
fit 
(Y
uan
)
4
5
6
7
IE 
(N
at)
F o r e c a s t  E r r o r
 P r o f i t  o f  t h e  W P P
 I n f o r m a t i o n  e n t r o p y
Fig. 12. Information entropy and profit of WPP.
As shown in Fig. 12, the IE of WPP corresponds to its
power generation forecast accuracy, which affects the profit
of WPP. It can be seen that as uncertainty costs are taken
into account in the pricing mechanism of IE, when the IE
of WPP increases that is, the accuracy of power generation
forecast decreases), the net profit of WPP decreases because
of the elevated uncertainty costs. The net profit with a forecast
error of 12% and IE of 6.56 Nat is reduced by about 10 yuan
compared to the forecast error of 2% and of 4.77 Nat.
The EV charging method in LCEM is the DA market
contract charging. Since the DA price proposed by WPP in
LCEM is a time-of-use price, the driving behavior of EVs has
a significant impact on the net profit of WPP and its own
charging cost.
We set five groups of EV charging behavior as shown in
Fig. 13, and adjusting the ratio of three behavior typies as
shown in TABLE II can get different WPP profit and EV
charging costs. The 80 EVs in group A are all typical day
driving behaviors and have the highest WPP profit, but the
charging cost of EVs is too high due to the high electricity cost
of charging time of EVs in typical day behaviors. The majority
of EVs in group E work at night and travel randomly, resulting
in the need for WPP to purchase additional low-carbon energy
to meet the charging power of EVs that travel randomly
outside the contract resulting in lower benefits. Taking into
account the charging cost of EVs and the net benefit of WPP,
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
11
2 3 3 0
2 3 4 0
2 3 5 0
2 3 6 0
2 3 7 0
2 3 8 0
2 3 9 0
2 4 0 0
2 4 1 0
Pro
fit 
(Y
uan
)
 P r o f i t  o f  W P P
 C o s t  o f  E V  C h a r g i n g
A B C D E 5 0 0
5 1 0
5 2 0
5 3 0
5 4 0
5 5 0
5 6 0
Co
st (
Yu
an)
E V  D r i v i n g  B e h a v i o r
Fig. 13. WPP profit and EV charging costs.
TABLE II
EV DRIVING BEHAVIOR GROUP
Group Typical day Night work Random travel
A 80 0 0
B 65 10 5
C 50 20 10
D 35 30 15
E 20 40 20
the ratio of EV behavior in group B is optimal and is also the
ratio of EV charging behavior set in other experiments in this
paper.
VI. CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK
This paper proposes a blockchain-based LCEM considering
renewable energy uncertainty. In the process of Stackelberg
game pricing, the definition of WPP power generation un-
certainty through IE theory and the DA contract charging
management of EVs have a profit advantage of greater than
2% when the power generation error is 10% or more. The
market facilitates WPP to set reasonable prices and capacity to
improve the accuracy of generation forecasts while measuring
the uncertainty. The experiment shows LCEM can accurately
measure the uncertainty of wind power generation and manage
EV charging in the DA market to maximize the benefits for
both parties. In addition, an information system based on the
blockchain have been established to complete the transmission
of electricity data to ensure the trustless and privacy of the
transaction.
For future work, we will deal with the uncertainty cost
of the supply side and demand side based on IE theory in
concert, not only limited to supply-side renewable energy in
this paper. Further, a system cost function will be defined
by combining the energy efficiency cost quantified by exergy
with the uncertainty cost of RES quantified by IE. In addition,
the construction of an integrated energy low-carbon network
market that considers hot and cold loads and heat and gas
transmission is also part of the subsequent work. At the level
of blockchain design, we will improve the efficiency of trans-
actions to expand the scope of blockchain deployment. We
will further improve the stability and efficiency of electricity
market and support the construction of a net-zero emission
power system.
REFERENCES
[1] R. Saidur, M. R. Islam, N. A. Rahim, and K. H. Solangi, “A review on
global wind energy policy,” Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews,
no. 7, pp. 1744–1762, 2010.
[2] S. Abolhosseini and A. Heshmati, “The main support mechanisms to
finance renewable energy development,” Renewable and Sustainable
Energy Reviews, vol. 40, pp. 876–885, 2014.
[3] N. Zhang, Z. Hu, D. Dai, S. Dang, M. Yao, and Y. Zhou, “Unit com-
mitment model in smart grid environment considering carbon emissions
trading,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 420–427,
2016.
[4] B. Huang, L. Liu, H. Zhang, Y. Li, and Q. Sun, “Distributed optimal
economic dispatch for microgrids considering communication delays,”
IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol. 49,
no. 8, pp. 1634–1642, 2019.
[5] L. Hirth, “The market value of variable renewables : The effect of
solar wind power variability on their relative price,” Energy Economics,
vol. 38, pp. 218–236, 2013.
[6] H. Zhao, J. Zhao, J. Qiu, G. Liang, and Z. Y. Dong, “Data-driven risk
preference analysis in day-ahead electricity market,” IEEE Transactions
on Smart Grid, vol. 12, no. 3, pp. 2508–2517, 2021.
[7] R. Wang, Q. Sun, J. Han, J. Zhou, W. Hu, H. Zhang, and P. Wang,
“Energy-management strategy of battery energy storage systems in
dc microgrids: A distributed dynamic event-triggered H∞ consensus
control,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems,
vol. 52, no. 9, pp. 5692–5701, 2022.
[8] J. Yan, F. Li, Y. Liu, and C. Gu, “Novel cost model for balancing
wind power forecasting uncertainty,” IEEE Transactions on Energy
Conversion, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 318–329, 2017.
[9] F. Bouffard and F. D. Galiana, “Stochastic security for operations
planning with significant wind power generation,” IEEE Transactions
on Power Systems, vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 306–316, 2008.
[10] L. Hua, W. Jia, and Z. Chi, “Adaptive electric vehicle charging coor-
dination on distribution network,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid,
vol. 5, no. 6, pp. 2666–2675, 2014.
[11] Q. Sun and L. Yang, “From independence to interconnection–a review
of ai technology applied in energy systems,” CSEE Journal of Power
and Energy Systems, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 1–14, 2019.
[12] B. Huang, S. Zheng, R. Wang, H. Wang, J. Xiao, and P. Wang,
“Distributed optimal control of dc microgrid considering balance of
charge state,” IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, vol. 37, no. 3,
pp. 2162–2174, 2022.
[13] L. Fernando, S. Joao, H. L. Pablo, K. Michael, P. Tiago, and A. Maria,
“Local energy markets: Paving the path towards fully transactive energy
systems,” IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4081–
4088, 2019.
[14] Q. Huang, Y. Xu, and C. Courcoubetis, “Strategic storage operation
in wholesale electricity markets: A networked cournot game analysis,”
IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering, vol. 8, no. 2,
pp. 1789–1801, 2021.
[15] Z. Shen, C. Wu, L. Wang, and G. Zhang, “Real-time energy management
for microgrid with ev station and chp generation,” IEEE Transactions on
Network Science and Engineering, vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 1492–1501, 2021.
[16] Z. Su, Y. Wang, Q. Xu, M. Fei, Y. C. Tian, and N. Zhang, “A secure
charging scheme for electric vehicles with smart communities in energy
blockchain,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 4601–
4613, 2019.
[17] Q. Sun, N. Zhang, S. You, and J. Wang, “The dual control with
consideration of security operation and economic efficiency for energy
hub,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 6, pp. 5930–5941,
2019.
[18] Shannon and E. C., “A mathematical theory of communication,” Bell
Systems Technical Journal, vol. 27, no. 4, pp. 623–656, 1948.
[19] H. Li, S. Zhong, Y. Wang, J. Zhao, and J. Zhu, “New understanding on
information’s role in the matching of supply and demand of distributed
energy system,” Energy, vol. 206, 2020.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
12
[20] C. Wan, Z. Cao, W. Lee, Y. Song, and P. Ju, “An adaptive ensemble data
driven approach for nonparametric probabilistic forecasting of electricity
load,” IEEE Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 5396–5408,
2021.
[21] J. Yang, J. Zhao, F. Wen, and Z. Dong, “A model of customizing
electricity retail prices based on load profile clustering analysis,” IEEE
Transactions on Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 3374–3386, 2019.
[22] A. Botterud, Z. Zhou, J. Wang, R. Bessa, H. Keko, J. Sumaili, and
V. Miranda, “Wind power trading under uncertainty in lmp markets,”
IEEE Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 27, no. 2, pp. 894–903, 2012.
[23] E. Mengelkamp, J. Gärttner, K. Rock, S. Kessler, L. Orsini, and
C. Weinhardt, “Designing microgrid energy markets: A case study: The
brooklyn microgrid,” Applied Energy, vol. 210, pp. 870–880, 2018.
[24] W. Hua, J. Jiang, H. Sun, and J. Wu, “A blockchain based peer-to-
peer trading framework integrating energy and carbon markets,” Applied
Energy, vol. 279, 115539, 2020.
[25] H. T. Doan, J. Cho, and D. Kim, “Peer-to-peer energy trading in
smart grid through blockchain: A double auction-based game theoretic
approach,” IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 49 206–49 218, 2021.
[26] I. Petri, M. Barati, Y. Rezgui, and O. F. Rana, “Blockchain for energy
sharing and trading in distributed prosumer communities,” Computers
in Industry, vol. 123, 103282, 2020.
[27] M. Zhang, F. Eliassen, A. Taherkordi, H.-A. Jacobsen, H.-M. Chung,
and Y. Zhang, “Demand–response games for peer-to-peer energy trading
with the hyperledger blockchain,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man,
and Cybernetics: Systems, vol. 52, no. 1, pp. 19–31, 2022.
[28] Y. Xu, Z. Liu, C. Zhang, J. Ren, Y. Zhang, and X. Shen, “Blockchain-
based trustworthy energy dispatching approach for high renewable
energy penetrated power systems,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal,
vol. 9, no. 12, pp. 10 036–10 047, 2022.
[29] A. Bischi, M. Basile, D. Poli, C. Vallati, F. Miliani, G. Caposci-
utti, M. Marracci, G. Dini, and U. Desideri, “Enabling low-voltage,
peer-to-peer, quasi-real-time electricity markets through consortium
blockchains,” Applied Energy, vol. 288, 116365, 2021.
[30] M. Baza, A. Sherif, M. M. E. A. Mahmoud, S. Bakiras, W. Alasmary,
M. Abdallah, and X. Lin, “Privacy-preserving blockchain-based energy
trading schemes for electric vehicles,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular
Technology, vol. 70, no. 9, pp. 9369–9384, 2021.
[31] Z. Liu, Y. Xu, C. Zhang, H. Elahi, and X. Zhou, “A blockchain-based
trustworthy collaborative power trading scheme for 5G-enabled social
internet of vehicles,” Digital Communications and Networks, 2022, doi:
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.dcan.2022.10.014.
[32] K. Christidis, D. Sikeridis, Y. Wang, and M. Devetsikiotis, “A framework
for designing and evaluating realistic blockchain-based local energy
markets,” Applied Energy, vol. 281, 115963, 2021.
[33] Y. Zheng, J. Zhao, Y. Song, F. Luo, K. Meng, J. Qiu, and D. J. Hill,
“Optimal operation of battery energy storage system considering distri-
bution system uncertainty,” IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Energy,
vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 1051–1060, 2019.
[34] X. Ding, J. Guo, D. Li, and W. Wu, “An incentive mechanism for build-
ing a secure blockchain-based internet of things,” IEEE Transactions on
Network Science and Engineering, vol. 8, no. 1, pp. 477–487, 2021.
[35] Q. Sun, R. Fan, Y. Li, B. Huang, and D. Ma, “A distributed double-
consensus algorithm for residential we-energy,” IEEE Transactions on
Industrial Informatics, vol. 15, no. 8, pp. 4830–4842, 2019.
[36] Y. Cao, S. Tang, C. Li, P. Zhang, Y. Tan, Z. Zhang, and J. Li, “An
optimized ev charging model considering tou price and soc curve,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 388–393, 2012.
[37] R. A. Jabr, “Adjustable robust opf with renewable energy sources,” IEEE
Transactions on Power Systems, vol. 28, no. 4, pp. 4742–4751, 2013.
[38] P. Du, Z. Liu, B. Huang, G. Jing, L. Feng, and C. Yang, “Blockchain
based peer-to-peer energy trading between wind power producer and
prosumers in short-term market,” Frontiers in Energy Research, vol. 10,
923292, 2022.
Ziming Liu (S’20) received his B.S. degree in elec-
trical engineering and automation from Shenyang
Institute of Engineering, Shenyang, Liaoning, China,
in 2017. He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree
in School of Information Science and Engineering,
Northeastern University, Shenyang, China. His re-
search interests mainly focus on the information
entropy theory, electricity market, renewable energy
generation and blockchain.
Bonan Huang received the B.S. degree in electronic
information engineering from Tianjin University,
Tianjin, China, in 2005, and the M.A.Sc. and Ph.D.
degrees in control theory and control engineering
from Northeastern University, Shenyang, China, in
2008 and 2014, respectively. He is currently an
Associate Professor with the School of Information
Science and Engineering, Northeastern University.
His research interests include the collaborative con-
trol and operation optimization of energy Internet
and multienergy systems, and cyber-physical secu-
rity analysis of smart energy systems.
Xuguang Hu received the M.S. degree in control
theory and control engineering from Northeastern
University, Shenyang, China, in 2017, where he
is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree in control
theory and control engineering with the College
of Information Science and Engineering. His cur-
rent research interests include cyber-physical system
fault diagnosis based on data-driven, modeling, and
optimal control of cyber-physical systems.
Pengbo Du received her B.S. degree in new en-
ergy science and engineering from Hohai University,
Nanjing, Jiangsu, China, in 2021. She is currently
pursuing the master’s degree in School of Informa-
tion Science and Engineering, Northeastern Univer-
sity, Shenyang, China. His research interests mainly
focus on the renewable energy trading, game theory,
and blockchain.
Qiuye Sun (M’11-SM’20) received the Ph.D. degree
in control theory and control engineering from the
Northeastern University, Shenyang, China, in 2007,
where he has been a Full Professor and the Ph.D.
Supervisor since 2014. His current research inter-
ests mainly include modeling and optimal operation
of Energy Internet, complementary optimization of
multienergy system, and network control of dis-
tributed generation systems.
He has authored or co-authored over 100 pa-
pers, applied for/been authorized over 110 invention
patents, and has published over 10 books or textbooks. He was a recipient of
the New Century Talents of the Education Ministry of China, the “Millions
of Talents Project” of Liaoning Province (100 Level) and the Dawn Scholar
of Northeastern University. He, as the Key Finisher, was a recipient of over
ten major awards, including the Second Class Prize of the National Science
and Technology Progress Award. He has presided over or participated in a
number of scientific research projects, including the National Natural Science
Foundation of China, National Key Research Project of China (863 Program),
Key Research Project of the State Grid.
This article has been accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on Network Science and Engineering. This is the author's version which has not been fully edited and 
content may change prior to final publication. Citation information: DOI 10.1109/TNSE.2023.3238110
© 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:16:35 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.