Electricity market transaction model design combining blockchain and machine learning
20
21
 I
E
E
E
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
on
su
m
er
 E
le
ct
ro
ni
cs
 a
nd
 C
om
pu
te
r 
E
ng
in
ee
rin
g 
(IC
C
E
C
E
) 
| 9
78
-1
-7
28
1-
83
19
-0
/2
0/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
21
 I
E
E
E
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
C
E
C
E
51
28
0.
20
21
.9
34
22
01
2021 IEEE International Conference on Consumer Electronics and Computer Engineering (ICCECE 2021)
Electricity market transaction model design 
combining blockchain and machine learning
YunXiang Liu
Shanghai Institute of Technology 
SIT
Shanghai, China 
yxliu@sit.edu.cn
Abstract—With the deteriorating environment and the 
issuance of various national policies, green energy has begun to 
rise and become an important part of the energy market. The 
traditional energy trading model is a centralized management 
model, and new energy is not suitable for the current situation 
due to its wide distribution. Some traditional transaction models, 
so we use blockchain technology to solve this problem. Aiming at 
the problems of transaction methods, energy price competition 
and how to implement the blockchain in energy transactions, the 
K-nearest neighbor algorithm in machine learning is used to 
realize the automatic auction at the same time, and the ACO 
algorithm competition based on multiple time scales is studied. 
The game realizes the legality of using smart contracts to restrict 
market transactions, solves the problem of distributed green 
energy grid connection, and combines with appropriate incentive 
mechanisms to increase the utilization rate of green energy and 
promote the rational development of ecology and human life.
Keywords- Blockchain; Energy Trading System; Ant Colony 
Algorithm; Machine learning; KNN
I. In t r o d u c t
With the development of the energy Internet, renewable 
energy such as solar energy, wind energy, and water energy is 
an energy source that does not emit pollutants and can be 
directly used for production and life, and has high energy 
conversion rate, high operational reliability, and equipment 
Distributed energy with the advantages of simple and 
convenient installation. On September 20, 2019, L i Fulong, 
Director of the Development Planning Department of the 
National Energy Administration, said that he is studying the 
" 14th Five-Year" energy development plan and will continue to 
strengthen the development of clean energy. Under the national 
environment, distributed clean energy participation w ill be 
encouraged. The trend of market transactions is becoming more 
and more urgent. At the same time, the liberalization of the 
power sales side [1] makes the types of competition subjects in 
the market more flexible, and the boundaries between 
producers and consumers are gradually blurred [2], and the 
types of power transactions and management models show a 
diversified trend [3].
In the traditional energy trading market, most of the 
transactions are carried out in a centralized mode: State Grid 
sends the power generation data to the system, and at the same 
time collects user data and uploads it to the grid management 
system, to adapt to users through centralized matching or 
optimization methods. When purchasing electricity and
Feng Zhou
Shanghai Institute of Technology 
SIT
Shanghai, China 
zf_0128@163.com
transacting with the generator, it must go through the grid 
management system. The advantages of the centralized 
transaction model are unified management and unified 
standards, which have played a key role in the stable operation 
of my country's power system. However, with the continuous 
emergence of distributed renewable energy, centralized and 
unified transactions have exposed many problems: the first is to 
respond to electricity. Measurement and accounting are not 
transparent enough. Secondly, it is difficult to form a 
reasonable market supervision mechanism. Finally, the market 
mechanism is not flexible enough, and the price of electricity 
cannot fluctuate with market demand.
In order to solve the above problems, a new management 
system is needed to adapt to this diversified energy transaction. 
The demand response transaction model based on the 
blockchain has the characteristics of decentralization, 
traceability, transaction transparency, and non-tampering, 
which is completely compatible with the solution. The 
technical structure, bidding mechanism and trust supervision of 
multi-agent market transactions [4-6]. The blockchain is 
essentially a decentralized database, similar to a well-designed 
distributed database system. These characteristics of the 
blockchain can meet the requirements of electricity transactions.
In recent years, some scholars have begun to use 
blockchain technology to integrate microgrid resources and 
have some research and corresponding results. Literature [7] 
uses blockchain incentives to realize energy and electricity the 
supply-demand network coordinates the independent grid- 
connected behavior of distributed energy sources. On this basis, 
the collaborative co-evolutionary algorithm (CCEA) is used to 
establish a power model through objective functions such as 
the lowest operating cost and the lowest active power loss; 
literature [8] uses blockchain technology The management 
platform obtains relevant data and information, combined with 
the model prediction algorithm (MPC) method, to optimize the 
dispatch of distributed energy. The above is the use of 
blockchain technology to integrate information such as 
distributed energy generation status and the load status of 
various entities in the grid, and the feedback of this information 
is used to control the grid connection of distributed energy. For 
the literature [9], a non-cooperative game multi-dimensional 
grid transaction model and solution process was established 
between the microgrid and the distribution network, and the 
conditions and influencing factors of the transaction between 
the microgrid and the distribution network were explained. 
Literature [10] used a multi-agent dynamic game model in a
978-1-7281-8319-0/21/$31.00 ©2021 IEEE
458
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
microgrid with storage energy units to solve the problem of 
competition and game between distributed energy sources in 
the microgrid system under island operation. At the same time, 
there are also some research and application systems for the 
development of blockchain transactions at home and abroad. 
For example, the distributed photovoltaic power sales 
blockchain platform Transactive Grid jointly established by the 
US energy company LO3 and the Bitcoin development 
company Consensus Systems developed the world's first 
energy source the blockchain market [11] combines green clean 
energy with blockchain technology, and users can feed back 
excess clean energy to the grid. The Energo project builds a 
decentralized autonomous energy community (DAE) 
decentralized system, establishes an automatic energy trading 
platform based on the Qtum- quantum chain, and uses the 
digital currency TSL to realize the clean energy measurement, 
registration, management, and management of micro-grids, 
trading and settlement [12].
For the existing research situation, most of the research is to 
use the blockchain technology to integrate information 
resources to rationally dispatch distributed energy or the game 
competition between the power generation side and the supply 
side, and it has not yet involved the diversified competition 
game among the various entities in the power grid.
This article combines the research at home and abroad, 
based on the blockchain-based distributed energy trading 
program, first, the application of blockchain technology in the 
smart grid is introduced. The consensus algorithm and 
cryptography principles ensure the transparency, security and 
non-tampering of power transaction data. Secondly, based on 
the blockchain technology, the power transaction model is 
proposed, the smart contract for demand response is designed, 
and then the mathematical model of the demand of each subject
in the power market environment is designed. At the same time, 
starting from each subject in the power grid, it is established 
based on microgrid companies, energy bureaus and general 
User and other multi-agent diversified non-cooperative game 
model, using ant colony algorithm (ACO) to solve the above 
game model, realize the method of peer-to-peer (P2P) 
transaction, automatic auction based on K-nearest neighbor 
algorithm, and finally analyze through simulation experiments 
to verify the model and algorithm The feasibility.
II. M e t h o d s  a n d  Co n c l u s io n s
A. Blockchain-based transaction model
Taking into account the characteristics of power 
transactions, a typical blockchain system is divided into six 
levels of business, from bottom to top, data layer, network 
layer, consensus layer, incentive layer, contract layer and 
application layer. The data layer encapsulates the underlying 
data organization and representation, related timestamps and 
data encryption technology, etc.; the network layer logically 
organizes physical nodes into a point-to-point network, 
including point-to-point networking mechanisms, data 
dissemination mechanisms, and data verification mechanisms; 
consensus layer in a highly decentralized system, coordinate all 
parties to reach consensus and complete tasks such as 
transactions. This layer completes various consensus 
algorithms that encapsulate network nodes; the incentive layer 
contract layer mainly encapsulates various agreements, 
algorithms, and contracts as programs that can trigger 
execution (smart contract) is the basis of the programmable 
features of the blockchain; the application layer implements 
application scenarios and specific cases based on the services 
provided by the bottom layer.
459
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
The model design based on the blockchain power 
transaction studied in this paper is shown in Figure 1. The 
balance model of Ethereum is used as the account model. The 
account includes the electricity sales account and the electricity 
purchase account; at the same time, due to the special nature of 
the distributed energy market in energy transactions the 
consortium chain is selected as the blockchain model [13]. The 
consortium chain has the characteristics of auditing 
participating nodes, and each participating node needs to be 
audited. This model uses the PBFT (Practical Byzantine Fault 
Tolerance) consensus algorithm to improve the efficiency and 
safety of the overall system. This consensus algorithm uses 
mathematical calculations to quickly distribute the accounting 
rights, without the need to compete in computing power, 
reduce power consumption, and achieve a consensus in the 
shortest time [15].
The main bodies of the distributed energy market mainly 
include microgrid companies, energy bureaus, and ordinary 
users. A ll entities in the distributed energy market hope that 
their rights and interests are maximized. It can be seen from 
Figure 1 that micro-grid companies and energy bureaus are the 
main producers of energy. Micro-grid companies mainly focus 
on green and clean energy such as wind power generation and 
solar power generation. Under the condition of meeting their 
own load, they w ill store the excess energy for supply. The 
Energy Bureau or user groups sell it. I f  the microgrid company 
lacks energy, it can purchase energy from the Energy Bureau; 
the Energy Bureau mainly uses nuclear power and thermal 
power generation in a centralized power generation mode. The 
Energy Bureau is ensuring the safety of the entire system load. 
Under the circumstances, the energy generated by the 
microgrid company is merged into the main grid to reduce its 
own power generation and resource loss. At the same time, the 
Energy Bureau can also purchase the excess energy generated 
by the microgrid and sell it to the user group, earning money 
through the price difference. Take profits; user groups only 
consider meeting their own electricity needs with the smallest 
cost.
The distributed energy framework design mainly includes 
smart meters, central management systems, and smart routing. 
In this framework, every producer and consumer install a smart 
meter, which collects and records the production and 
consumption of energy at all times, and transmits the situation 
to the central management system and uploads to the block, 
from the block in real time Read the information to monitor the 
status of each node at all times. The legality of the transaction 
is determined by the smart contract in the blockchain and the 
Energy Bureau. I f  any violation is found, it w ill be directly 
recorded in the credit report of the block and account. The 
system provides reliable measurement authentication 
technology, and all measurement data is on the chain to further 
ensure the reliability and traceability of measurement data. 
Smart contracts ensure the fairness of all market participants.
B. The Mathematical Model o f the Demand o f Power
Transaction
Blockchain-based power trading is a power trading model 
that considers microgrid companies, energy bureaus, ordinary 
users, etc., and is also a multi-time-scale demand response
bidding for "day-ahead-intraday-real-time" rolling dispatch 
between transaction subjects' resources Mechanism, that is, the 
supply and demand information issued by each subject and the 
signed supply and demand contract do not need to be 
authenticated by an intermediate authority. The system 
guarantees that the transaction data has the properties of 
tamper-proof and non-repudiation. The cryptography principle 
of the blockchain can ensure that the transaction information 
has the above properties. The principle and technology of 
traceability, tamper-proof and smart contract based on 
blockchain can support the establishment of a transparent and 
efficient power supply and demand transaction model [16].
In order to maximize their own interests, the microgrid 
companies, energy bureaus, and ordinary users participating in 
the market game w ill influence market changes by formulating 
different strategies for purchasing and selling electricity at 
different stages. Therefore, how to obtain excess profits 
through competition and game in the market conditions 
supported by blockchain technology is the most concerned 
issue of all players. In addition, the power purchase subsidy for 
micro-grid companies and ordinary users w ill be added to the 
system to promote the prosperity of the electricity market.
1) Microgrid company needs
For micro-grid companies, due to the uncontrollability of 
the energy produced by the environment, it cannot guarantee 
that the energy produced w ill be in balance with its own load. 
There w ill be a lack of electricity or excess electricity, and the 
lack of energy requires the purchase of energy. Excess energy 
can be released to participate in the auction.
PT green 
± sell (t) = p t  ( t) Q T  (t) + pT  (t) QGlC (t) ( i ) 
SLgur (t ) = c G ( t) q z ?  ( t) (2)
S E T  (t) =0.05 • Q Cr ( t) C G (t)2 (3)
PT green ( t)
sell represents the benefits of green energy,
SLfbuy (t) ;cis the micro-grid company sells surplus energy to 
ordinary users or sells energy to the energy bureau. When there 
is a shortage of power, the micro-grid company will purchase
SEgreen (t)
energy from the energy bureau. get is subsidies for
p GtoU ( t)
power purchase by microgrid companies. seU \ ' indicates 
the price of electricity sold by the microgrid company to
QGtoU (t)
ordinary users at time t. Sell indicates the amount of 
electricity sold by the microgrid company to ordinary users at 
time t. The same goes for other representations. G stands for 
microgrid companies, U stands for ordinary users, and C stands 
for Energy Bureau.
2) Demand from Energy Bureau 
As the largest producer, the Bureau of Energy can 
continuously generate energy to satisfy the perfect operation of 
the overall system. Of course, the Bureau of Energy can also 
purchase excess energy from micro-grid companies at a low 
price and auction it out. In this system, the energy bureau does 
not need load.
460
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
PTCountry / f \ _ pCtoU (Z Q  
r  1 sell \ l ) ~ r sell V ) ̂
CtoU
CSell ( t) + PCO (t) QCO (t)
(4)
sLCzn,ry ( t) _  p g o  (t) qg: c (t)
SECountry (t) _ 0.05QCe‘r  (t ) P“ oU (t )2 + 
0.05QCr (t ) P - G (t )2
(5)
(6)
p̂ Country (t)
sdl '  ' is revenue of the Energy Administration, the
source of the energy bureau’s income is mainly the demand for 
energy load of ordinary users and the cost of energy purchase 
by microgrid companies in the case of power shortage.
SLCoun‘ry (t)
uy v J is the cost of purchasing the excess electricity
SECountry ( t) . . . . .
generated by the microgrid company. is subsidies
from the Energy Administration.
3) Ordinary user needs
As the largest energy consumer in this system, it is mainly 
for getting lower electricity prices to invest in life and 
production. Ordinary users do not have the ability to generate 
energy and can only purchase energy.
s l U:; ( t) _ pZ  (t) Q Z  (t) + pT  ( t) Q Z  (t)
SEUser (t)_  o ^ Q C r  (t ) pT  (t )
(7)
(8)
SC  (t) .is the cost of purchasing energy for ordinary users,
SE (t) is ordinary users receive subsidies from the Energy
Administration.
2
C. Design o f multi-time scale demand response bidding 
mechanism based on blockchain
In order to maintain the balance of the entire system and the 
stability of the market, this system uses the ACO algorithm 
competition game based on multiple time scales in order to 
prevent any one of the energy bureau, micro-grid companies, 
and ordinary users from gaining the most benefits. According 
to the ACO (Ant Colony Algorithm) algorithm, the hourly best 
bid price is obtained and displayed to the users participating in 
the bidding and publishing bids for reference. The main 
participants in the optimization are the Energy Bureau, micro­
grid companies, and ordinary users.
The supply and demand parties release power supply and 
demand information, and comprehensively consider the form of 
energy, time scale ("day-ahead-intraday-real time"), electricity, 
policies, etc. during the game. Factors, to achieve the balance 
of supply and demand income, to reach power supply 
transactions, and to provide a basis for optimal power dispatch.
1) The main body o f the algorithm A
The main body of the algorithm model of the distributed 
energy trading system studied in this system is mainly N micro­
grid companies, M energy bureaus, and K ordinary users at 
time t.
A  _ { G P  ^ , G 3 , • • • , G n  , Z  C 2 , . . . , C m  , U 1, U  2 , U 3 , - - - , U K  }
(9)
2) Algorithm strategy
The algorithm strategy of this system is to maximize the 
revenue of the Energy Bureau and the micro-grid company by 
changing the price of electricity sold by each subject, and 
minimize the cost of ordinary users.
3) The objective function o f the algorithm
a) The objective function o f the microgrid company:
maxHGT _ X
( PCo )Q Z  z  )+ p CCog (t, )QCf (t,) A
pZ  (t.) q z  (t.))+0.05-q c t  (t,) p z  (t, ) \
(10)
b) The objective function o f the Energy Administration:
max H C : r  _ E
(  P T  (b) Q Z  ( t ) + P T  ) Q Z  ( t ) ^
P Z  ( t )Q Z  ( t )) -  0.1-QSr (b)P Z  ( t ) j
11)
c ) The objective function o f ordinary users:
m inR Ue _ t ( P 2 T ( t , ) Q C t U ( t . ) + p T ( t , ) q T ( t , ) -0 .05 .Q S G T (t , ) P T ( t ,)2)
( 12)
In formulas (10), (11), (12), ti is in which time period.
4) Constraints o f ACO algorithm
Pmin (t) £ {P Z  (t), P Z  (t), P Z  (t), P Z  (t)} £ Pmx  (t)
( 13)
5) Adaptive pheromone volatilization factor in ACO 
algorithm
The information volatilization factor p in the ant colony 
algorithm, 1-p represents the residual factor. When p is too 
small, the residual information factors on each path are not 
much different, which w ill cause invalid paths to be searched 
continuously, which affects the optimal algorithm. The 
convergence speed of the solution; when p is too large, some 
effective paths w ill be ignored, which affects the optimal 
solution of the algorithm to be ignored.
Suppose the initial value of p is p(0)=1. When the ACO 
algorithm cannot obtain the optimal solution or the optimal 
solution cannot be improved, p w ill be adjusted according to 
the following formula (14):
f0.8p(? - 1) 0.8p(t - 1) >p, 
l  Ppn 08P(t -1 ) <P,
(14)
6) The probability o f ACO algorithm calculates the 
position o f the next moment:
461
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
X(t +1) =
X  (t) + rand x 2, p t < p 0 
(upper -  lower)
X  ( t) + rand x , p t > p0
2
X(t +1) = X  (t) + rand x
(upper -  lower)
2 (15)
In formula (15), rand is a random number with a value
range of [-1,1], p ° is a transition probability constant, where 1
will decrease as the number of iterations increases. For p  < p°
time, is a local Search; For
(upper -  lower)
^  X(t +1) = X  (t) + rand x
Pt > po , w  2
global search.
was a
7) The steps o f the algorithm:
Step1: First calculate the income and expenses of micro­
grid companies, energy bureaus, and ordinary users before the 
current time, and then generate a set of initialization ants 
according to the given price range, according to the predicted 
value of green energy production at the next time and each 
object Predict the load value, initialize a set of data, and record 
the current global optimal position.
Step2: According to the setting, 35 groups of ants are 
generated and start to explore the optimal solution.
Step3: The choice of ant's path is related to the intensity of 
information. Initially, the pheromone is set to be equal, and the 
pheromone is proportional to the quality of the solution.
Step4: When 35 groups of ants search once, it is iterated 
once. After each iteration, pheromone updates w ill be 
performed on all the plans, and then the ants participating in the 
next iteration w ill make new explorations based on the last 
pheromone.
Step5: When the predetermined number of iterations (such 
as the 2oo iterations of this algorithm) is reached, the type of 
ant w ill no longer change (that is, the value of the array 
contained in the ant w ill no longer change), the algorithm will 
end, and the final data is the Excellent solution about the 
current problem.
8) k-nearest neighbor algorithm 
This system uses the k-nearest neighbor algorithm in 
machine learning to realize automatic trading. The system 
automatically collects each user’s quotation, constructs the data 
set generated by the user’s quotation into a kd-Trees, and then 
generates it according to the above ACO algorithm the best 
value is regarded as the target value X, and then the leaf node 
containing the target value X is found in kd-Trees. This leaf 
node is the best quote among many users' quotes. I f  no leaf 
node is found, the nearest leaf node is found as the best offer. 
This offer satisfies the strategy of the game algorithm. The 
system w ill automatically generate orders and smart contracts 
to monitor the execution of transactions.
D. Simulation experiment and result analysis
The test environment of this algorithm is Python software. 
In order to simplify the complexity of the test, the algorithm 
uses a micro-grid company, an energy bureau and two ordinary 
users to participate in the algorithm test. This article also 
stipulates that the excess electricity produced by the micro-grid 
company should be sold first. For ordinary users, i f  it is 
redundant to sell to ordinary users, then sell to the Energy 
Bureau, and ordinary users only buy electricity but not sell 
electricity, further reducing the calculation dimension of the 
algorithm. The bidding space of microgrid companies is 0.5-0.7 
yuan/(kw*h); the bidding space of the Energy Bureau is 0.4-0.6 
yuan/(kw*h); the bidding space of ordinary users is 0.4-0.6 
yuan/(kw*h).
The verification data of this algorithm includes a 
photovoltaic power generation system with an installed 
capacity of 800KW and a wind power generation system with 
an installed capacity of 800KWd. The following figures shows 
the real and predicted values of the 24-hour wind power 
generation system and photovoltaic power generation system, 
and Figure 2 shows the real and predicted values of the load 
demand of ordinary users and micro-grid companies in 24 
hours.
Load
(b)
wind power
MO
1 i  i  /  9 11 13 l i  1? 19 *1 l i
(c)
Fig.2 Load true value and predicted value
Figure 5 is the best value of the ACO algorithm obtained 
from the 24-hour compilation and running of the system, 
Figure 3 is the 24-hour saleable electricity generated by the 
micro-grid company and the Energy Bureau, and Figure 4 is 
the effective filter of the system according to the specific sales 
situation in Figure 5 value. In the figure, G->U refers to the 
micro-grid company selling electricity to ordinary users, G->C 
refers to the micro-grid company selling electricity to the
462
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Energy Bureau, and C->G refers to the energy bureau selling 
electricity to the micro-grid company. C->U Energy Bureau 
sells electricity to ordinary users. Taking 12:00 as an example, 
the best values obtained by the ACO algorithm are: 
p C_>G = 0.420585yuan / (KW  • H ) ,
p c_>u = 0.555435yuan / (K W  • H ) ,
p G >c = 0.595725yuan / (KW  • H ) ,
p G _>A = 0.687799yuan/( K W  • H ) . The above data shows
that during the peak period of electricity consumption at 12 
o'clock, each object tries its best to meet its own electricity 
consumption. Sell at a high price to obtain the highest profit. 
For example, for a micro-grid company, the purchase price of 
electricity should not be higher than 0.420585 yuan/(KW-H), 
otherwise the income will be small, and for the Energy Bureau, 
i f  the price is lower than this price, no high profit w ill be 
obtained. Comparing the prices sold to ordinary users by the 
Energy Bureau and the Micro-grid Company, it is obvious that 
the price of electricity sold by the Micro-grid Company is 
higher than the price of the Energy Bureau. According to the 
figures, this is because the Micro-grid Company is 
guaranteeing its own use. In the case of electricity, the amount 
of electricity sold is smaller than that of the Energy Bureau, so 
in order to achieve higher profits, a higher price is set.
Fig.4 Actual competitive value
Fig.5 Best bid value of each object
III. Co n c l u s io n
This paper designs a new energy trading system based on 
blockchain technology, ACo algorithm and machine learning. 
According to the cryptographic principles of blockchain, the 
system can ensure that the transaction data has the properties of 
tamper-proof and non-repudiation, and fully consider multi­
party entities. The competitive relationship between each other 
and their respective goals establishes a game model for local 
grid market competition. The advantages of an energy trading 
system based on blockchain technology are that one is to make 
energy transactions transparent and open, and the other is that 
smart contracts in blockchain technology ensure the legitimacy 
of various energy transactions under decentralized management. 
For smart contracts, signing smart contracts does not need to be 
authenticated by an intermediate authority, which ensures that 
there is no human intervention in the transaction contract. 
However, due to the immutability of blockchain technology, it 
needs to be tested repeatedly before entering the market, 
because smart contracts once deployed, it cannot be modified, 
and there is a sentence: Code is the law. This sentence vividly 
describes smart contracts, so the writing and logic of smart 
contracts need to be very rigorous. This paper also uses the k- 
nearest neighbor algorithm in machine learning to 
automatically find the best auction price and automatically sign 
smart contracts. In the future, the blockchain-based energy 
trading market may be multi-chain cooperation, which w ill be 
combined with carbon emissions, reputation rankings, and 
energy project capitalization.
Re f e r e n c e s
[1] Wang Lei, Wang Chaoli, He Lianghua. License plate recognition 
algorithm based on double edge detection[J]. Computer Engineering and 
Applications, 2013, 49(8): 169-174.
[2] Zhao Zhihong, Yang Shaopu, Ma Zengqiang. Research on License Plate 
Character Recognition Based on Convolutional Neural Network LeNet- 
5[J]. Journal of System Simulation, 2010, 22(3): 638-641.
[3] Ping Jian, Chen Sijie, Zhang Ning, etc. Decentralized transaction 
mechanism of exchange network based on smart contract[J]. 
Proceedings of the Chinese Electrical Engineering, 2017, 37 (13): 3682­
3690.
[4] Han Dong, Zhang Chengzhenghao, Sun Weiqing, et al. Architecture 
design of intelligent distribution and sale trading platform based on 
blockchain technology [J]. Automation of Electric Power Systems, 2019, 
3(7): 89-99.
[5] Li Bin, Tan Qiuyue, Qi Bing, et al. Overview of the design of distributed 
energy trading schemes based on blockchain[J]. Power System 
Technology, 2019, 43(3): 961-972.
[6] Yang Xiaodong, Zhang Youbing, Lu Junjie, etc. Automatic demand 
response of energy storage system in energy local area network based on 
blockchain technology [J]. Proceedings of the Chinese Electrical 
Engineering, 2017, 37(13): 3703-3716.
[7] Hu Wei, Yao Wenhui. Blockchain-based dispatch optimization model 
for energy and power supply and demand network [J]. Journal of System 
Management, 2019, 28(06): 1134-1142.
[8] Yang Mingtong, Zhou Buxiang, Dong Shen, Lin Nan, Li Zugang, He 
Feiyu. Microgrid power market design and dispatch optimization 
supported by blockchain [J]. Power Automation Equipment, 2019, 12 
155-161
[9] Liu Yanbo, Qiu Xiaoyan, Qiu Gao, et al. Multi-agent game model of 
microgrid with energy storage system under island operation [J] . High 
Voltage Electrical Apparatus, 2016(7): 75-81
[10] Zhang Jun, Gao Wenzhong, Zhang Yingchen. Intelligent distributed 
power energy system running on the blockchain: demand, concept,
463
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
method and outlook [J]. Acta Automatica Sinica, 2017, 43(9): 1544­
1554.
[11] Wang Beibei, Li Yachao, Zhao Shengnan, Chen Hao, Jin Yi, Ding Yu. 
Key technologies of distributed energy trading based on blockchain[J]. 
Automation of Electric Power Systems, 2019, 7, 25. vol 43, No. 14, 53 - 
64.
[12] M. Kaufman, “Meditation gives brain a charge, study finds,” The 
Washington Post, 2006.
[13] Yuan Yong, Wang Feiyue. Current status and prospects of blockchain 
technology development [J]. Acta Automatica Sinica, 2016, 42(04): 481­
494.
[14] Yuan Yong, Wang Feiyue. Current status and prospects of blockchain 
technology development [J]. Acta Automatica Sinica, 2016, 42(04): 481­
494.
[15] Li Bin, Qin Qiuyue, Qi Bing, Sun Yi, Li Dezhi, Shi Kun, Yang Bin, Xi 
Peifeng. Overview of distributed energy transaction scheme design 
based on blockchain[J]. Power System Technology, 2019, 43(03): 961­
972.
[16] Ma Tiannan, Peng Lilin, Du Ying, Gou Quanfeng, Wang Chao, Guo 
Xiaofan. Local multi-microgrid market competition game model and 
solution algorithm under blockchain technology[J]. Electric Power 
Automation Equipment, 2018, 38(05): 191-203.
464
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:20:44 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.