The application of blockchain algorithms to the management of education certificates
Vol.:(0123456789)1 3
Evolutionary Intelligence 
https://doi.org/10.1007/s12065-022-00812-0
SPECIAL ISSUE
The application of blockchain algorithms to the management 
of education certificates
Raúl Jaime Maestre1 · Javier Bermejo Higuera1 · Nadia Gámez Gómez1 · Juan Ramón Bermejo Higuera1 · 
Juan A. Sicilia Montalvo1  · Lara Orcos Palma1
Received: 31 January 2022 / Revised: 10 August 2022 / Accepted: 8 December 2022 
© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer-Verlag GmbH Germany, part of Springer Nature 2022
Abstract
Blockchain is a new application technology in many sectors and the same is true in the world of education. Therefore, there 
is an increasingly emerging need to research blockchain technology, as it is still taking its first steps in different sectors, such 
as education. This article presents a review of the state of the art of blockchain technology in the education sector, focusing 
on identifying the advantages, disadvantages, and challenges associated with the introduction of blockchain technology in 
the education sector. In addition, the implementation of a title certificate solution through blockchain technology through 
the BeCertify project is presented. In this solution, the development stages of the platform, the system architecture, and the 
operation of the API have been carried out, resulting in a platform that constitutes the first step towards a more transparent 
and technologically advanced way of managing the certifications of the students’ qualifications.
Keywords Blockchain · Cryptographic algorithms · Technology · Digital certificates · Cybersecurity
1 Introduction
The education sector, like the rest of the sectors, continues 
to move towards the digital age. Technology and education 
are combining better and better, transforming it [1].
The adoption of technology in the education sector is a 
slow and difficult process. Researchers, teachers, and pro-
fessionals have established different steps to support the 
implementation process, and in the case of blockchain tech-
nology, to implement security measures. Blockchain tech-
nology offers great potential in the area of security. In recent 
years, there has been a great boom and interest in the secu-
rity of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) 
and specifically in the Bitcoin cryptocurrency, devised by 
Satoshi Nakamoto [2], who indicates in the article “Bitcoin: 
an electronic peer-to-peer cash system” that it has provided 
a possible solution to transaction security. Therefore, there 
are different possibilities for applying blockchain in differ-
ent processes and therefore it is attracting the attention of 
researchers and professionals. As projects and applications 
based on blockchain technology grow, it is important to have 
access to the practice and current state of technology.
In this article, a research to understand the state of the art 
for the application of blockchain technology in education is 
presented. The objective of this article is to provide a clas-
sification and synthesized vision of current practices as well 
as to present the implementation of a platform for academic 
degree certificates based on this technology. This constitutes 
the first step toward a more transparent and technologically 
advanced way of managing Certifications of the degree of 
the students that have collaborated with the INITIA com-
pany in IEBS Business School. The research questions are:
• Is there evidence of the application of blockchain tech-
nology in the educational sector to solve problems or 
offer solutions?
• What are the specific applications of blockchain technol-
ogy in the education sector?
• What are the results offered according to the study of the 
state-of-the-art?
• What are the results of the implementation of a block-
chain-based academic degree certificate platform for the 
education sector?
 * Juan A. Sicilia Montalvo 
 juanantonio.sicilia@unir.net
1 Escuela Superior de Ingeniería y Tecnología, Universidad 
Internacional de La Rioja, Avda. de La Paz 137, 
26006 Logroño, La Rioja, Spain
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/s12065-022-00812-0&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0002-5962-4147
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
One of the main objectives of this article is to present the 
process of implementation of an academic degree certifica-
tion system using blockchain technology with the start-up 
BeCertify. In this system, there are analyzed the different 
stages of development that the platform has to pass for the 
generation of academic degrees with blockchain technol-
ogy, the system architecture a platform should have, and the 
operation of the REST API, present the problems that have 
arisen and the result of the internal management system for 
certification of degrees for students in an educational center.
The structure of this article is as detailed below. The cur-
rent section presents the work motivation and contributions 
of the article in detail. Section 2 “Blockchain-based solu-
tions for the education sector” presents important projects 
and research in the field related to this study. The main con-
tribution of the article is presented in Sect. 3 “Implemen-
tation of a platform for issuing academic certificates”, in 
which the proposed concept of the platform, the implemen-
tation of the prototype and the inclusion of the reflections 
and problems of the work are presented. Finally, the “Con-
clusion” and “Future directions” sections provide a summary 
of the proposed solution and some future plans.
1.1  Motivation
Most higher education institutions maintain records of 
their programs in a proprietary format. These databases are 
structured to be accessed exclusively by center staff and in 
dedicated online systems, therefore with little or no com-
patibility. In addition, most centers have their specialized 
system for maintaining complete student course records 
and preserving a data structure for information. In general, 
these databases are housed in a data center, with restricted 
access. Students can have external access to their degrees in 
a restricted and password-protected way, just to see the title 
of their program. There are different points regarding these 
systems, including data standardization, storage location, 
security, and secure sharing of title information. According 
to these problems, educational centres maintain the titles of 
their programs indefinitely.
This is done for legal reasons, depending on the policy of 
the country where the educational centre is. Also, in most 
cases, schools do not share the data of their students, not 
even the records of completed programs. Therefore, students 
may experience difficulties in demonstrating the comple-
tion of a program to another school, while retaining and 
demonstrating completion of the program at the previous 
school. This problem is even more evident in cases where 
the student wants to demonstrate a degree from one country 
to another, where there is a validation barrier at the adminis-
trative level. In addition, these registers are generally stored 
by different standards, making it difficult to exchange infor-
mation between educational centres.
In the case that the student applies for a job and has to 
prove his/her qualification in a foreign country, problems 
arise from the centralized storage of complete records of 
the student’s program due to its inaccessibility, and lack of 
standardization of student information. Title, etc. There-
fore, students have to translate and validate their academic 
qualifications, which can be a complex, slow and expensive 
process.
Also, after completing their degree, sometimes, students 
do not have access to the academic certificate. Moreover, if a 
student loses it, he or she needs to reapply for a copy, which 
can be expensive and time-consuming.
Although there are some standards for the degree certifi-
cation system, the adoption and implementation of a decen-
tralized, reliable, and secure platform is a great challenge. 
There are many obstacles stemming from the fact that the 
academic information of the degrees is sensitive and has 
complex management regulations.
1.2  Contribution
To solve the aforementioned problems, we propose a plat-
form for the management and implementation of certificates 
in Blockchain technology for decentralized higher education 
centres, called BeCertify. It is based on the peer-to-peer.
distributed network (P2P) system. This system is flexible, 
safe, and resistant due to its global storage and data exchange 
capacity. The BeCertify platform transfers the certificate of 
higher education degrees from the physical and analog world 
to an efficient and simplified version, based on Blockchain 
technology. The BeCertify platform provides a unified and 
simplified higher education degree system. Through this 
initiative, the researchers plan to advance and develop the 
BeCertify concept in other sectors.
2  Background and related works
Due to the benefits of Blockchain technology, different plat-
forms based on it have been launched. Therefore, some of 
the most popular platforms are presented, focusing on those 
most suitable for their application in the educational sector 
[3].
Blockchain technology is relatively new and so is its 
application in the educational sector is very recent. How-
ever, there are already a large number of proposals based on 
Blockchain technology that improve certain aspects of the 
educational sector [4].
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
2.1  Blockchain technology 
Blockchain technology and digital currencies, also called 
cryptocurrencies, are key applications of distributed 
accounting technologies that became a star issue in 2016 and 
2017. Powered by their potential to revolutionize multiple 
industries, and the increased value of digital currencies, par-
ticularly Bitcoin, this technology has become a top strategic 
priority for some companies [5].
Considering the potential of technology to reduce costs, 
create capital, improve trust systems, minimize inefficien-
cies, and radically transform business models [5], it is not 
surprising that multinationals research and reap the benefits 
of this technological innovation.
Blockchain technology is similar to a shared database. 
A "distributed ledger" is a special type of ledger in which 
transaction logs are distributed across a network that spans 
multiple locations. Each participant in the network has an 
identical copy of the ledger. As a result, when a change is 
made to the general ledger, it is spread and reflected on all 
copies held by network participants (the speed of this pro-
cess depends on the type of network, however some net-
works require several seconds or even minutes to extend and 
reflect the changes). Distributed books maintain the security 
and precision of transactions by implementing cryptographic 
protocols and signatures to control access and permissions 
of the shared book. Access control rules are generally agreed 
upon and applied by the network [6].
This special type of distributed ledger supports the Bit-
coin cryptocurrency. The key feature of a blockchain is that 
it employs a data structure where transactions are organized 
and grouped into a block, as can be seen in Fig. 1.
Like [7] comments each block is linked or linked, that is, 
chained, along with a previous block using a hash crypto-
graphic function. Therefore, each block that is added to the 
chain carries an encrypted reference to the previous block. 
This reference is part of the mathematical problem to solve 
to add the following block to the network and the chain [2]. 
Part of the solution to this math problem is to solve random 
numbers called "nonce."
The “nonce” combined with other data, such as the size of 
the transaction, using a mathematical algorithm creates the 
fingerprint that transforms an arbitrary block of data into a 
new one of fixed length using the hash function.
As it is encrypted, it makes it secure against attacks on 
confidentiality and integrity. Each hash, as can be seen 
in Fig. 2, is unique and has to face certain mathemati-
cal and cryptographic conditions. Once the above is done, 
the block is completed and added to the Blockchain. To 
manipulate each previous block, it is necessary to remem-
ber the cryptographic puzzles, which have been impossible 
until the date [2].
Blockchain networks are classified as open or closed, 
depending on how they approach their security and threat 
model. Open Blockchains, also called public Blockchains 
without permission, are considered untrusted or less 
trusted environments because anyone, including hack-
ers, can join the network. As a result, it is an incentive 
mechanism that rewards honest behavior among partici-
pants. This is done to preserve the integrity of the Block-
chain network. An is Bitcoin, where so-called miners are 
rewarded for their effort by participating in the profits of 
carrying out a transaction [8].
On the other hand, closed or private Blockchains net-
works operate in a trustworthy environment and are con-
sidered relatively more secure than public Blockchains. 
The participants are known, and this eliminates the need 
to encourage their honest behavior [8].
An example of a private Blockchain is the custom-made 
Blockchain for a company, where participants do not need 
incentives because they share the same general objective, 
for example, tracking the company's supply chain. Here, 
participants must be held accountable through legal terms 
and conditions (external to the Blockchain) and encour-
aged to behave honestly to avoid legal repercussions [9].
Fig. 1  Blockchain
Fig. 2  Hash configuration (ID of a Block in a Blockchain)
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
Therefore, Blockchain technology is considered the key 
to solving scalability, privacy, and reliability problems in 
several areas [10]. In other words, a Blockchain network 
is a distributed digital ledger that allows registering and 
exchanging information by a community of users in which 
each member keeps a copy of the information, and any 
update has to be validated collectively [2].
This technology is a self-regulating, auditable, tamper-
proof, trustworthy system that does not need third-party 
intervention to execute its computational processes [11]. 
This database is encrypted and serves to store irreversible 
and incorruptible information, it allows people who are not 
related to each other to reach a consensus on a particular 
transaction or event without the need for an authority to 
control it [4].
Another example of the use of this technology is pro-
vided by Abba Garba et all in [12]. This paper presents the 
design and implementation of a blockchain-based domain 
authentication scheme with privacy-preserving features for 
mobile, browser, and IoT devices. In addition, a compari-
son with other authentication methods is included. Its main 
advantages are its storage capacity and low bandwidth for 
authenticating certificates.
Another use of technology in the health sector, specifi-
cally for use in the fight against the current COVID-19 pan-
demic, is presented in [13] which proposes a blockchain-
based platform that can provide pandemic research data 
sharing while preserving data privacy.
Therefore, Blockchain technology is increasing in pop-
ularity because it exhibits a series of security properties 
that make it useful in various applications. The technology 
is implemented in use cases and applications where the 
participants do not necessarily trust each other or prefer to 
reduce their dependence on other third-party service provid-
ers and intermediaries [8].
2.2  Blockchain‑based solutions 
In Spain, the UOC (Universitat Oberta de Catalunya) 
established the OpenDCert project, (decentralized appli-
cation for academic certificates), shown in Fig. 3, which 
was developed for a Final Degree Project where the public 
version uses one of the test networks (Rinkeby) of the 
Ethereum Blockchain [14]. The application is designed to 
enable training entities (schools, universities, training cen-
tres, etc.) to manage student certificates safely and without 
intermediaries, showing a management alternative based 
on this technology. The application is designed to store 
any private data, and public keys that are associated with 
each type of user (organizations, students, and adminis-
trators) are always used, as indicated in Fig. 3. The func-
tionality of organizations or training entities is to manage 
certificates of students associated with a public key. Stu-
dents can only consult, download and share the certificates 
and, on the other hand, the administrator validates that the 
entities are correct [14].
Another initiative can be found at UNIR (Universidad 
Internacional de La Rioja) and the Certiblock project for 
the issuance of academic degrees and certificates safely 
and efficiently, which also enables these documents to be 
available to other universities or companies [15]. That is, 
issuing academic certificates with Blockchain guarantees 
efficiency, security, and accessibility, where all interested 
parties can access the information and the title, which once 
Fig. 3  Proyect OpenDCert [14]
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
it is registered in the blockchain, is unalterable. The title 
is always available within the Blockchain itself, but it is 
also a validation mechanism so that students, regardless of 
whether the institution disappears or not, can demonstrate 
the veracity of the certificate. For this, the entity responsible 
for issuing the certificate registers the smart contract on the 
network and issues a certificate for the student with an ID. 
An attempt to create an ecosystem is made, in which all uni-
versities participate in a distributed database in which they 
are shared, also with companies that want to check whether 
a degree issued to a candidate or worker is real or not [15].
The reference article [16] presents the Blockchain for 
Education platform for issuing, validating, and sharing digi-
tal certificates. According to the authors, the main advan-
tages of this platform are the ability to store immutable and 
decentralized digital certificates, the existence of a service 
that verifies the authenticity of the certificate, and the secure 
storage of the identity of the organization. Platform-issued 
certificates are based on the Mozilla Open Badges specifica-
tion and allow for viewing or validating revoked certificates.
The Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) and the 
company Learning Machine have developed another uni-
versity project called Blockcert [17] [18] [19]. The main 
objective of this initiative is the development of an open 
standard available to any educational institution that issues 
certificates. It provides open-source libraries, tools, and 
mobile apps. This system is currently implemented at MIT, 
the University of Nicosia and the University of Birmingham.
Another one can be found at IEBS Business School 
which is starting the transformation of its business model 
to a Blockchain education company with the help of the 
startup BeCertify. The business model of the company want 
to develop it is based on a Blockchain infrastructure. In sum-
mary, it plans to break into the sector, by improving its ser-
vices, using Blockchain technology, and reating an incentive 
system that rewards the best teachers and the best students. 
The platform wants five essential elements: students, teach-
ers, workers, advertisers, and sponsors to push through the 
Blockchain, as Fig. 4 indicates. The personal benefits of 
using the platform are:
• Students: they will receive paid tokens to learn, they will 
benefit from learning minutes, they will have a history 
of achievements and they will get social comments from 
other students and teachers, in addition to having access 
to work. Opportunities are created through networking.
• Teachers: they will receive paid tokens to teach, and, 
through their personal history, they will be able to 
become star teachers. At the same time, they will also 
be able to earn tokens for helping students with fewer 
resources.
• Workers: their main advantage comes from their access 
to the records and achievements of the training campus. 
They will be able to follow the achievements of potential 
candidates and even build promotion programs.
• Advertisers: they may create brand recognition for sup-
porting an IEBS program or programs.
• Sponsors: they can sponsor individual talents or courses 
from the available catalogue.
Kanan et all, in reference to article [20] present SmartCert 
as a Blockchain-based platform for issuing and verifying 
the authenticity of academic degrees and digital certificates 
implemented on Ethereum. For this purpose, it implements 
the cryptographic services provided by this technology. The 
platform is implemented at the University of Al-Zaytoonah.
Another initiative is the network CRUE—ICT. The 
CRUE—ICT project is made up of a group of private and 
public Universities in Spain (the University of Jaén, Uni-
versity of Extremadura, Polytechnic University of Madrid, 
Public University of Navarra, Polytechnic University of 
Valencia, Complutense University of Madrid, University of 
Murcia, University from Alicante and the University of San-
tiago de Compostela), each of which has its node, and works 
to connect to the European BLUE network [21].
Other higher education institutions that have adopted 
Blockchain to certify degrees are the ISDI business schools, 
ESADE, ESIC, and the Carlos III University of Madrid, 
which carry out-degree certification with the start-up Smart-
Degrees, in addition to a mobile application through which 
students can manage or share the certificates with work plat-
forms and companies [22].
On the other hand, the 3 Chain CEU (Universities in 
Madrid, Valencia, and Barcelona), both members of ALAS-
TRIA [23], are entered into the Ibermatic Chain Talent 
platform.
Another initiative born in the framework of the European 
Union is EduCTX [24] developed to digitize the European 
Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS). The plat-
form implements a system to process, verify and monitor 
ECTX tokens as academic credits. The users of this platform Fig. 4  Business model (Blockchain infrastructure)
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
are students and universities and higher education organiza-
tions. Each institution has its EduCTX address. The main 
feature of this system is the multi-signature authorization 
capability of the different actors involved in the process pro-
vided by the open ARK Blockchain, distributed P2P network 
architecture and its performance in terms of concurrent data 
processing of multiple users.
Other similar solutions in this field found in the litera-
ture but for which not enough information is available are 
RecordsKeeper [25], TrueRec [26], Sovrin [27], Taiwan 
Ministry of Education [28] and UZHBC [29].
In summary, Table 1 makes a comparison of the most 
important projects and their main characteristics. As we 
have safely and efficiently catalogued the seen in the article, 
the academic records of a person, such as degrees, are data 
stored in databases of various education providers, and stu-
dents or graduates do not have the authority to manage their 
information. Furthermore, another person does not have 
access to modify or even view these records. But in a con-
text of a greater internationalization of education and work, 
with the increasing mobility of students and graduates, it is 
essential to have easy access to the registration of degrees 
on a personal level.
Other studies identify the challenges related to the 
recognition of degrees, certificates, and diplomas issued 
by foreign education providers, taking into account the 
Table 1  Comparison of the projects
* Not available information
Institutions Blockchain Network type Consensus algorithm Type of consensus
Certiblock UNIR Ethereum Public Proof of Work (PoW) Proof of work (51%)
OpenDCert UOC Rinkeby Public PoW Proof of work (51%)
Blockchain for Educa-
tion
Fraunhofer, University 
of Luxenbourg
Ethereum Permitted Private – * – *
Blockcert MIT, University of 
Nicosia, University 
of Birmingham, 
South Ural State 
University, Univer-
sity of Rome and 
University Fernando 
Pessoa
Ethereum, 
Hyperledger, Bitcoin
PublicPermitted 
Private
Proof of Authority – *
BeCertify IEBS Business School Europe Chain Permitted Private PoW Proof of work (51%)
CRUE Jaén Univ., Extrema-
dura Univ., etc
BLUE Permitted Private – * – *
SmartCert University of Al- Zay-
toonah
Ethereum Public – * – *
Smartdegrees Carlos III Univ Quorum Permitted Private QuorumChain Red T: QuorumChain
Red B: PoW, PoA e 
IBFT
Chain Talent CEU Red T: Quorum
Red B: Hyperledger 
Besu
Permitted Private Red T: QuorumChain
Red B: PoW, PoA e 
IBFT
Red T: Majority vote 
(BFT / RAFT)
Red B: Proof of work 
(51%), etc
EduCTX University of Maribor
BRNO University of 
Technology, Sara-
jevo University
ARX Public Proof-of-Stake (PoS) Distributed PoS
RecordsKeeper – * RecordsKeeper
Open-source
Public or Private PoW
Proof-of-Existence 
(PoE)
– *
TrueRec openSAP Ethereum Public PoW – *
Sovrin – * Ethereum Public Permissioned Byzantine fault-toler-
ant (BFT)
Plenum an enhance-
ment of RBFT
Taiwan Ministry of 
Education
Southern Taiwan Uni-
versity of Science 
and Technology
Ethereum Permitted Private
QR code
– * – *
UZHBC University of Zurich Ethereum Public – * – *
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
dangers of counterfeiting. They developed some recom-
mendations to ensure that a document is not fraudulent 
[30]. One of these recommendations is a complete and 
reliable system to record, store and retrieve educational 
information, such as degrees, certificates, diplomas, edu-
cational credentials, training, etc. Among other purposes, 
this type of system would help to prevent fraud, ensuring, 
data management and access to third parties (other uni-
versities, recruiters, or employees), even between different 
countries.
2.3  Benefits of blockchain technology 
in the education sector 
Blockchain technology has not yet realized its full potential 
and could become an important part of educational systems. 
Some of the benefits of adopting this technology in the field 
of education are the following [31]:
• Decentralization: considering a distributed peer-to-peer 
architecture over a centralized one, improves fault toler-
ance, by eliminating the central points of failures and 
bottlenecks.
• Scalability: allows the elimination of situations in which 
one or more entities control the storage and processing 
of information of a large number of people.
• Reliability: the information can remain unchanged, 
immutable, and distributed overtime on the Blockchain. 
Any participant in the system can verify the authenticity 
of the data and ensure that it has not been altered.
• Reduction of administrative costs and reduction of 
bureaucracy.
• Security: information and communications can be secure 
when considering Blockchain transactions, based on 
cryptographic protocols. Thus, for example, Blockchain 
offers the potential to make title records more secure.
2.4  Limitations of the application of blockchain 
technology in the educational sector
Several problems in the implementation of education appli-
cations based on Blockchain technology have been detected. 
Mainly, these revolve around compliance with data protec-
tion laws, ownership of data, and the authenticity of data 
sources.
Latency time is another limitation in Blockchain tech-
nology because the transaction can a lot of time. Increased 
storage capacity due to data redundancy, as each node has 
a copy, could also be a technology adoption problem. In 
addition, some publications reveal a major security problem 
in the proof of work (PoW) consensus algorithm, called the 
“51% attack” [8].
On the other hand, it is important to mention that the 
adoption of Blockchain technology in the educational sector 
makes it necessary to solve several legal problems [32]: for 
the determination of who is responsible for the treatment 
-data controllers- as well as the viability of fulfilling the 
obligations that correspond to them, they would anonymize 
the personal data, or, finally, the exercise of some subjective 
rights related to the data. As noted above, the compatibility 
problems with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, of April 27, 2016, 
which entered into force on May 25, 2018, are greater in the 
chains of public blocks that are private and have not been 
definitively resolved either by the laws of some countries or 
by the community data protection authorities.
3  Implementation of an academic certificate 
issuance platform
This section describes the development of the INITIA com-
pany in the BeCertify project for the IEBS Business School 
client and the management and implementation platform for 
degree certificates in Blockchain technology for decentral-
ized higher education centers.
INITIA and IEBS Business School believe that digital 
transformation is the key to seeking competitive advantages 
and, thus, to be able to explore new business opportunities. 
In this context, INITIA has become a technology provider 
for IEBS Business School, to detect some of the oppor-
tunities that exist in the market and accompany it in their 
materialization.
This section includes the services necessary to carry out 
the implementation of a certificate issuance platform based 
on Blockchain technology, which allows IEBS Business 
School to guarantee the authenticity of the degrees it issues.
One of IEBS Business School's needs is to focus on issu-
ing certified academic degrees in Blockchain technology. 
These certificates can be managed from mobile applications 
and shared with recruiting companies and social media plat-
forms like LinkedIn, in a way that guarantees the inviolabil-
ity of the title.
INITIA presents to the IEBS Business School a solution 
with the BeCertify-based. BeCertify is a digital certifica-
tion platform based on Blockchain technology through the 
EuropeChain network, a technology derived from EOS, as 
opposed to Bitcoin or Ethereum. This network allows great 
scalability while keeping costs low and complies with Euro-
pean data protection regulations.
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
3.1  Platform development phases
The development of the platform has been addressed in three 
different phases. The first "Phase 1" consists of a proof of 
concept. The objective of this phase is to demonstrate that 
the solution is valid to meet the objectives of IEBS Busi-
ness School and to demonstrate the technical robustness of 
the platform.
It is implemented through a technical infrastructure 
necessary to create the certificates and host them in Eur-
opeChain. In addition, a REST API is provided to IEBS 
Business School to connect to the Blockchain network and 
internal business processes when certifying degrees and 
checking their validity. The tasks, as shown in Fig. 5, car-
ried out were:
• Deployment of the Smart Contract.
• Management of the private key.
• REST API creation:
• Certification registration service: Service that allows 
IEBS Business School to create a new certificate. Its 
main argument is the certificate code, and it returns 
a HASH code to identify the certificate within Euro-
peChain.
• Certification consultation service: Service that 
allows IEBS Business School to validate the authen-
ticity of a certificate. The HASH code is accepted 
and returns a boolean indicating the authenticity.
Phase 2 consists of developing the minimum viable prod-
uct. In this phase, a services module is developed on the 
Blockchain layer that allows IEBS Business School to manu-
ally manage the creation of certificates. This tool allows, in 
Fig. 5  Architecture developed 
in phase 1
Fig. 6  Architecture developed 
in phase 2
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
the future, to expand the business logic necessary for any 
operation with smart contracts, betting on a modularized 
cloud architecture that allows a scalable and maintainable 
solution. The tasks that were carried out during this phase 
were:
• Management of status of a title (pending certification, 
certified, expired, etc.).
• Linking metadata by certificate (centre, degree, student, 
date, issue, etc.).
• Control of access to services.
• Collect and analyze usage statistics.
• Performance reports.
In the architecture developed in “Phase 1”, the BackEnd 
component is added, as shown in Fig. 6, which isolates the 
service layer of IEBS Business School's business special-
ists, offering a friendly interface aligned with its objectives.
Phase 3 consists of the complete certification of the 
degree and integration with business processes. In this 
phase, the suitability of the platform and the correct inte-
gration in the dynamics of degree management are validated. 
It is important to consider the evolution of the solution to 
seek greater synergies.
The scope of the third phase is defined during service. 
The possibilities that can be developed according to INITIA 
are:
• Complete certification of the degree:
• The creation of partial certifications is allowed, 
which certify that the student has achieved certain 
milestones in their training itinerary (passing exams, 
evaluating assignments, doing practicals, etc.).
• Once all the necessary certifications have been col-
lected, the certification of the student's title can be 
issued.
• This solution allows IEBS Business School to guar-
antee the authenticity of the degree and the merits of 
the students.
• Integration with business processes:
• The corporate systems of IEBS Business School can 
be analyzed to perform automatic integrations of the 
REST API.
• The technical nature of the integration has to be 
defined, and the solutions proposed must have to be 
compatible with the technical ecosystem of IEBS 
Business School.
3.2  System architecture
At this point, the main characteristics of the technical solu-
tion that gives service to IEBS in its issuance of digital cer-
tificates are collected. The architecture diagram, as shown 
in Fig. 7, shows the main components of the system, bear-
ing in mind that BeCertify is a key element and isolates all 
the complexity of access and management of the blockchain 
network.
The description of the different components is determined 
in the architecture diagram and details the following respon-
sibilities (IEBS Business School management module):
• Module deployed in IEBS Business School systems.
• Aims to:
• Encapsulate the use of BeCertify.
• Manage BeCertify credentials and authentication.
Fig. 7  Architecture diagram
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
• Host customized business logic for IEBS Business 
School as a result of your business requirements or 
your corporate systems.
• It offers an API in RESY format to be consumed 
from IEBS Business School corporate systems.
• Technology:
• Node.js in version 8.
• Express as a development framework.
3.3  Framework of Blockchain development
At this point, the Blockchain Development Framework 
concept is presented within the scope of the BeCertify 
implementation project as a component in the issuance of 
certificate certificates based on Blockchain technology for 
certification of degrees at IEBS Business School.
In the project, to implement the BeCertify solution at 
IEBS Business School, as Fig. 8 shows, a technological base 
called the IEBS Blockchain Framework has been developed. 
It is a set of components and tools useful for implementing 
solutions and processes based on Blockchain technology.
The components of the IEBS Frawework blockchain 
would be:
• Blockchain framework:
• Node.js application that brings together the logic 
necessary for the current and future use of several 
Blockchain technology solutions.
• This application can be evolved according to the 
needs, to incorporate new functionalities and access 
to new services based on blockchain technology.
• External service:
• Market service that provides IEBS Business School 
with a concrete value proposition based on Block-
chain technology.
• These external services are responsible for accessing 
the Blockchain network directly.
• Internal Service:
• Development services at IEBS Business School to 
incorporate functionalities based on Blockchain tech-
nology into the organization that does not depend on 
the service of third-party companies.
• The services has to be designed to be integrated through 
the REST API.Corporate systems:
• Tools and systems that serve IEBS Business School 
in its processes and business.
The scope of version 1 of the Framework, as Fig.  9 
shows, includes the necessary mechanisms for the issuance 
of degree certificates.
However, with the implementation of Blockchain tech-
nology with Node.js, the Framework is prepared to carry 
out the necessary integrations with all kinds of services, 
both internal and external, products and tools of blockchain 
technology, as Fig. 10 shows.
3.4  Use of the API REST
This point aims to clarify the concepts related to the con-
sumption of the IEBS Business School API to create certifi-
cates based on Blockchain technology for their degrees, as 
shown in Fig. 11. Certificate management functionalities are 
available through a REST API. It is important to consider 
the following concepts when using it:
• Endpoint: URL through which it is possible to access the 
method.
• Operation: Information access method (GET, POST, 
PUT, PATCH or DELETE).
• Body: Arguments of the method. Typically, this is infor-
mation that must be processed by the API.
• Status and error code HTTP: Success or failure in execut-
ing the method.
• Answer: JSON file with the data returned by the method.
• The methods available in the API are as follows:
• Create-Cert: Method dedicated to the creation of a new 
certificate in BeCertify and its registration in the Block-
chain network, as Fig. 11 shows.
• Endpoint: / api / v1 / certificate
• Access method: POST
• Headers: Not necessary
• Body: JSON with the following arguments:
Fig. 8  Framework Blockchain
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
Fig. 9  Version 1 of the Blockchain Framework
Fig. 10  Version of the Blockchain Framework
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
“ ” “ ”
“ ” “
”
“ ” “
”
“ ” “ ”
• Verify-Cert: Method dedicated to verifying the validity 
of a certificate and its associated data.
• Endpoint: / API / v1 / certificate / {certificate_id}
• Access method: GET
• Headers: Not necessary
• Body. JSON with the following arguments: unique 
ID of the certificate
• Answer. JSON with the following data:
“ ” “ ”
“ ” “
”
“ ” “
”
“ ” “
”
“ ” “ ”
“ ” “ ”
“ ” “ ”
“ ” “ ”
“ ” “ ”
The access and consumption of the different Endpoints of 
the REST API, as Fig. 12 shows, depends on the technology 
that is being used for development. They can be developed 
in some modules and components of the most common web 
technologies, such as the following:
• JavaScript: Fecth API or JQuery AJAX
• Ruby: Net:HTTP class
• Python: Requests Module
For validation and testing, all these tools and components 
can be accessed using the POSTMAN graphical tool.
3.5  Certificate of the degree for the student 
of the IEBS Business School
Once all the development of the REST API has been com-
pleted, the internal IEBS Business School system was devel-
oped. In the internal system, a specific section is created 
where the different fields are generated to connect to the 
API and generate the BeCertify JSON file, as Fig. 13 shows.
Once the internal system develops, the diploma creates, 
and it can be consulted from the student's profile. In this sec-
tion you can verify the title, the course completed, the date 
of issue and a button has been created to verify the diploma, 
as Fig. 14 shows.
Fig. 11  Creation of the certification
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
When the diploma is verified, as Fig. 15 shows, the digital 
credential with the Blockchain ID can be consulted. On the 
same verification screen, the JSON test file that has been 
created in the title accreditation circuit can be downloaded 
(Fig. 16).
Ten (10) tests were performed for the issuance of titles 
generating, for example, the following JSON file: 
ó
In order to test the system, 34 issues of titles were 
launched. In 6 of them, an error occurred in which it 
appeared that the UUIDS was not valid, and the rest was 
valid information. This error occurred when validating 
UUIDS with the 'PostgreSQL' driver used. The identified 
problem was solved, and the tests were subsequently re-run 
without the error appearing.
Fig. 12  Certificate verification
Fig. 13  Certification creation 
system
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
4  Discussion
The research presented in this article consisted of the 
implementation and development of a BeCertify certifi-
cation and degree issuing platform for educational centers 
based on blockchain technology and a distributed peer-
to-peer (P2P) network system. The tests were carried out 
and developed in a real environment provided by a higher 
education center.
All stakeholders (the educational institution, the student 
and the company) can benefit from a system for issuing and 
managing the certification of higher education qualifications 
that is decentralized, reliable in terms of the security it pro-
vides, easy to use and relieves administrative burdens on 
management staff.
The BeCertify platform makes it possible to move 
the issue and management of degree certificates from a 
physical and analog version to a much more efficient and 
simplified digital version, thanks to the use of disruptive 
Fig. 14  Public certificate
Fig. 15  Verification screen
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
blockchain technology. This technology enables globaliza-
tion and scalability of the solution, as well as eliminating 
the problems that have arisen over the years regarding the 
veracity of the certificates issued.
It is an example of the benefits of this technology. It is 
also a major breakthrough in the field of education, as it 
allows verification of students' tenure at an educational 
institution and ensures that they are prepared for the world 
of work. In addition, value is given to schools by providing 
them with a quick and efficient mechanism to verify the 
qualifications of a student.
The intention of the BeCertify initiative is not to change 
and transform the system of qualification certification estab-
lished by the different countries, but to improve transparency 
and automation of the administrative processes related to the 
issuing and management of certificates and qualifications in 
schools. Therefore, schools would be able to use this certifi-
cation and degree issuing platform simultaneously with their 
management processes.
Using a platform such as BeCertify has several advan-
tages. Primarily, it allows companies the possibility to verify 
the academic qualifications of their future employees in a 
Fig. 16  Error UUIDS no valid
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
transparent way. Educational institutions get a decentralized 
and transparent way to validate qualifications. The platform 
gives the possibility to detect and prevent degree fraud. 
Therefore, the need for a more complex verification process 
can be avoided. In addition, students are given a system that 
is transparent and allows instant verification of the comple-
tion and awarding of the degree of the program they have 
completed at an educational institution.
The system solves the problem of obtaining access to data 
related to students or graduates, which is often stored in 
educational institutions in particular databases that are not 
accessible or in paper documents. Blockchain technology 
solves this problem while allowing it to continue as "open 
data".
The platform has been implemented in an educational 
center, which has allowed the analysis and debugging of 
any type of error, both on the technical and conceptual side. 
It is currently in the expansion phase to other educational 
centers.
The model has been materialized through the imple-
mentation of a functional system that has obtained positive 
results in the tests carried out. One of the main characteris-
tics of the proposed model is its wide range of applicability 
to any educational institution that prepares students and has 
to issue a certification degree. It allows to check for sure 
that the competences have been achieved by the student and, 
what is more, to be able to guarantee that the preparation of 
these studies is in accordance with the qualification awarded 
by an educational institution.
The research also includes specific assumptions and 
limitations. The first deployment of the platform has been 
carried out at the first collaborating center, IEBS Business 
School. The platform presented several problems during its 
implementation and development. In the beginning, only a 
few nodes were part of the network, which could pose a 
security risk. However, over the course of its implementa-
tion, the number of nodes increased, which improved its 
security. Other problems are related to the storage and pro-
tection of schools' private keys.
It is necessary for all educational institutions to protect 
their private keys, credentials, signatures, etc. It may happen 
that a student loses his or her private key and is therefore 
unable to prove possession of an educational institution's 
degree. In this case, the student could request the school to 
send a new blockchain address after verifying their records. 
For added security, each stakeholder on the BeCertify plat-
form could be issued a multi-signature, multi-level address, 
ensuring that an address will work even if one of the keys 
is lost.
In relation to data privacy and GDPR compliance, IEBS 
Business School's data treatment managers and data protec-
tion officers were appointed, personal data was anonymized, 
public and private keys were used, and security measures 
were included to protect the storage and private keys of all 
members based on the risks identified. On the other hand, 
Blockchain cannot guarantee the privacy of transactions due 
to the risk of data leakage through frequent updates or the 
possibility of linking user transactions to their publicly avail-
able public key. In the case of BeCertify, the latter risk is 
lower as it is a private network to which not all members of 
the public have access.
From the study of the art, it can be concluded based on 
Table 1 that the number of projects like the one presented 
in this article is growing, as well as the number of organiza-
tions involved and their mutual cooperation to create bet-
ter applications of blockchain technology. The launch of 
blockchain-based platforms in the area of education has been 
studied, most of them presented in this article.
It is difficult to see in which direction and to what extent 
technology will provide a solution to the new proposals for 
daily implementation and adaptation. Currently, there are 
many challenges in scalability, security, and implementa-
tion of different consensus algorithms. One of the future 
lines of research proposed in this article is a comparison 
of the performance of the two most widely used consensus 
algorithms in use today.
The potential for the application of this technology in 
the field of education is unlimited considering the value of 
the secured data and the future functionalities it can pro-
vide. The possibilities of blockchain technology have not 
yet reached their full potential, but decentralization, secu-
rity, and independence are becoming more and more valued 
among educational institutions that increasingly value the 
authenticity and credibility of certified data.
This article opens up the possibility of exploring the 
potential of blockchain technology in other areas of the 
education sector and extrapolating it into the creation of a 
system for acquiring students' skills and demonstrating them 
in the labour market.
5  Conclusion
This article presents an implementation model for certifica-
tion and degree issuance in open higher education, based 
on Blockchain technology, which certifies the acquisition of 
competencies by students trained in educational institutions.
Due to the benefits of this technology, various Block-
chain-based platforms have been launched and various 
applications have been developed in many diverse areas, 
including education, some of which are presented in this 
document.
Blockchain technology opens up a new approach to edu-
cation that expands the possibilities of protecting users' 
data and guarantees the authenticity and security of vari-
ous academic records, transcripts, and certificates. With 
Evolutionary Intelligence 
1 3
decentralized access to that kind of valuable information, it 
becomes truly independent like its senders and allows open 
and secure access.
This first approximation of the model has materialized in 
the form of the implementation of a platform. This imple-
mentation has been verified and validated, and the system is 
currently in production. Until its definitive implementation 
at the end of 2022, the errors detected have been progres-
sively solved and improvements in its functionality have 
been developed.
6  Future directions
As the completion of the implementation is near, we con-
sider new lines of future work:
• To create a model that allows the comparison of training 
entities dedicated to training students in the same profes-
sional skills.
• To create a model that allows the verification of student 
knowledge and their identification, as a source of infor-
mation to attract talent for companies.
• To create a model that allows the construction of formal 
and non-formal education to adapt it to business real-
ity, where a prototype of professional profiles is created, 
which includes more technical skills and representative-
ness of professional roles.
• To implement the "Proof of Stake" consensus algorithm 
in the system and compare the results with the already 
implemented in the system "Proof of Word" to study 
which of the two gives better results.
References
 1. FlipowSki A (2018) Blockchain for 2018 and beyond: a (growing) 
list of blockchain use cases, 2018. [En línea]. https:// medium. com/ 
fluree/ block chain- for- 2018- and- beyond- a- growi ng- list- of- block 
chain- use- cases- 37db7 c19fb 99.
 2. Nakamoto S (2019) A peer-to-peer electronic cash system, Man-
ubot, 11 2019. [En línea]. https:// git. dhimm el. com/ bitco in- white 
paper/. [Último acceso: 24 04 2021]
 3. Malviya H (2016) How Blockchain will defend IOT, SSRN 
2883711
 4. Wright A, De Filippi P (2015) Decentralized Blockchain technol-
ogy and the rise of lex cryptographia, SSRN 2580664
 5. Gräther W, Kolvenbach S, Ruland R, Ruland J, Torres C, Wend-
land F (2018) Blockchain for education: lifelong learning pass-
port. In Proceedings of 1st ERCIM Blockchain workshop. Euro-
pean Society for Socially Embedded Technologies (EUSSET)
 6. Atzori M (2017) Blockchain-based architectures for the internet 
of things: a survey, SSRN 2846810
 7. Androulaki E, Barger A, Bortnikov V, Cachin C, Christidis K, 
De Caro A, Yellick J (2018) Hyperledger fabric: a distributed 
operating system for permissioned blockchains. In: Proceedings 
of the thirteenth EuroSys conference, pp 1–15
 8. Maestre R (2019) La blockchain revolucionara la comunicacio 
de l'empresa, Comunicació: revista de recerca i d'anàlisi, pp 
95–116
 9. Mougayar W (2016) The business Blockchain: promise, practice 
and application of the next internet technology. Wiley, New Jersey
 10. Marco I, Lakhani KR (2017) The truth about Blockchain. Harvard 
Bus Rev 95(1):118–127
 11. Matilla J, Seppälä T (2015) Lockchains as a path to a network 
of systems. In An emerging new trend of the digital platforms in 
industry and society. ETLA-The Research Institute of the Finnish 
Economy
 12. Garba A, Chen Z, Guan Z, Srivastava G (2021) LightLedger: a 
novel blockchain-based domain certificate authentication and vali-
dation scheme. IEEE Trans Netw Sci Eng 8(1):1698–1710
 13. Yu K, Tan L, Shang X, Huang J, Srivastava G, Chatterjee P (2020) 
Efficient and privacy-preserving medical research support plat-
form against COVID-19: a blockchain-based approach. IEEE 
Consum Electron Magazine 10(2):111–120
 14. Atienza D (2018) Gestion de certificados academicos sobre la 
blockchain Ethereum, 06 09 2018. [En línea]. https:// blogs. uoc. 
edu/ infor matica/ gesti on- de- certi ficad os- acade micos- sobre- la- 
block chain- ether eum/. [Último acceso: 24 04 2024]
 15. Gonzalez R, Paniagua F, Nombela JJ, Delgado C, Rodriguez C, 
Gil R, Sanjuan O, Chaveli E. CertiBlock: Emision y validacion 
de titulos universitarios con Blockchain, de In Congreso Inter-
nacional de Educacion Superior de Calidad en el Espacio Lati-
noamericano (ESCEL)
 16. Gräther W, Kolvenbach S, Ruland R, Schütte J, Torres C, Wend-
land F (2018) Blockchain for education: lifelong learning pass-
port. In: Proceedings of 1st ERCIM Blockchain workshop. Euro-
pean Society for Socially Embedded Technologies (EUSSET)
 17. Juričić V, Radošević M, Fuzul E (2019) Creating student’s profile 
using blockchain technology. In 2019 42nd international conven-
tion on information and communication technology, Electronics 
and Microelectronics (MIPRO) IEEE, pp 521–525
 18. Nikolskaia K, Snegireva D, Minbaleev A (2019) Development 
of the application for diploma authenticity using the Blockchain 
technology. In International conference "quality management, 
transport and information security, information technologies 
(IT&QM&IS) IEEE, pp 558–563
 19. Capece G, Levialdi Ghiron N, Pasquale F (2020) Blockchain 
technology: redefining trust for digital certificates. Sustainability 
12(21):8952
 20. Kanan T, Obaidat A, Al-Lahham M (2019) SmartCert block-
chain imperative for educational certificates. In: 2019 IEEE Jor-
dan international joint conference on electrical engineering and 
information technology (JEEIT), pp 629–633
 21. Grupo de Trabajo Intersectorial de Crue Universidades Españolas, 
Informe de procedimientos de evaluación no presencial CRUE, 
16 4 2016. [En línea]. Available: https:// tic. crue. org/ wp- conte nt/ 
uploa ds/ 2020/ 05/ Infor me- proce dimie ntos- evalu aci% C3% B3n- no- 
prese ncial- CRUE- 16- 04- 2020. pdf. [Último acceso: 24 4 2022].
 22. SmartDegrees, SmartDegrees and TechHeroX certify corporate 
training with blockchain, 2019. [En línea]. https:// www. smart 
degre es. es/ en/ smart degre es- and- techh erox- certi fy- corpo rate- train 
ing- with- block chain/. [Último acceso: 24 04 2022].
 23. Ibermatica, Nace la primera aplicación de blockchain para la 
gestión interuniversitaria de títulos académicos, 29 1 2019. [En 
línea]. https:// iberm atica. com/ nace- la- prime ra- aplic acion- de- 
block chain- para- la- gesti on- inter unive rsita ria- de- titul os- acade 
micos/. [Último acceso: 24 04 2022].
 24. Turkanović M, Hölbl M, Košič K, Heričko M (2018) Kamišalić 
A (2018) EduCTX: a blockchain-based higher education credit 
platform. IEEE Access 6:5112–5127
https://medium.com/fluree/blockchain-for-2018-and-beyond-a-growing-list-of-blockchain-use-cases-37db7c19fb99
https://medium.com/fluree/blockchain-for-2018-and-beyond-a-growing-list-of-blockchain-use-cases-37db7c19fb99
https://medium.com/fluree/blockchain-for-2018-and-beyond-a-growing-list-of-blockchain-use-cases-37db7c19fb99
https://git.dhimmel.com/bitcoin-whitepaper/
https://git.dhimmel.com/bitcoin-whitepaper/
https://blogs.uoc.edu/informatica/gestion-de-certificados-academicos-sobre-la-blockchain-ethereum/
https://blogs.uoc.edu/informatica/gestion-de-certificados-academicos-sobre-la-blockchain-ethereum/
https://blogs.uoc.edu/informatica/gestion-de-certificados-academicos-sobre-la-blockchain-ethereum/
https://tic.crue.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Informe-procedimientos-evaluaci%C3%B3n-no-presencial-CRUE-16-04-2020.pdf
https://tic.crue.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Informe-procedimientos-evaluaci%C3%B3n-no-presencial-CRUE-16-04-2020.pdf
https://tic.crue.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/Informe-procedimientos-evaluaci%C3%B3n-no-presencial-CRUE-16-04-2020.pdf
https://www.smartdegrees.es/en/smartdegrees-and-techherox-certify-corporate-training-with-blockchain/
https://www.smartdegrees.es/en/smartdegrees-and-techherox-certify-corporate-training-with-blockchain/
https://www.smartdegrees.es/en/smartdegrees-and-techherox-certify-corporate-training-with-blockchain/
https://ibermatica.com/nace-la-primera-aplicacion-de-blockchain-para-la-gestion-interuniversitaria-de-titulos-academicos/
https://ibermatica.com/nace-la-primera-aplicacion-de-blockchain-para-la-gestion-interuniversitaria-de-titulos-academicos/
https://ibermatica.com/nace-la-primera-aplicacion-de-blockchain-para-la-gestion-interuniversitaria-de-titulos-academicos/
 Evolutionary Intelligence
1 3
 25. Saleh OS, Ghazali O, Rana ME (2020) Blockchain based 
framework for educational certificates verification. J Critic Rev 
7(03):79–84
 26. Boeser B (2017) BMeet TrueRec by SAP: Trusted Digital Creden-
tials Powered by Blockchain, 24 07 2017. [En línea]. Available: 
https:// news. sap. com/ 2017/ 07/ meet- truer ec- by- sap- trust ed- digit 
al- crede ntials- power ed- by- block chain/. [Último acceso: 2022 05 
09]
 27. Khovratovich D, Law J (2017) Sovrin: digital identities in the 
blockchain era. Github Commit Jasonalaw 17:38–99
 28. Cheng JC, Lee NY, Chi C, Chen YH (2018) Blockchain and smart 
contract for digital certificate I. In: EEE international conference 
on applied system invention (ICASI), pp 1046–1051
 29. Gresch J, Rodrigues B, Scheid E, Kanhere SS, Stiller B (2018) 
The proposal of a Blockchain-based architecture for transparent 
certificate handling. In: International conference on business 
information systems, pp 185–196
 30. Grech A, Camilleri AF (2017) Blockchain in education. Luxem-
bourg: Publications Office of the European Union
 31. Efanov D, Roschin P (2018) The all-pervasiveness of the block-
chain technology. Procedia Computer Science 123:116–121
 32. Legerén-Molina A (2019) Retos jurídicos que plantea la tec-
nología de la cadena de bloques, (Aspectos legales de blockchain)/
Legal challenges about blockchain. Revista de Derecho Civil 
6(1):177–237
Publisher's Note Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to 
jurisdictional claims in published maps and institutional affiliations.
Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a society or other partner) holds 
exclusive rights to this article under a publishing agreement with the 
author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author self-archiving of the accepted 
manuscript version of this article is solely governed by the terms of 
such publishing agreement and applicable law.
https://news.sap.com/2017/07/meet-truerec-by-sap-trusted-digital-credentials-powered-by-blockchain/
https://news.sap.com/2017/07/meet-truerec-by-sap-trusted-digital-credentials-powered-by-blockchain/
	The application of blockchain algorithms to the management of education certificates
	Abstract
	1 Introduction
	1.1 Motivation
	1.2 Contribution
	2 Background and related works
	2.1 Blockchain technology 
	2.2 Blockchain-based solutions 
	2.3 Benefits of blockchain technology in the education sector 
	2.4 Limitations of the application of blockchain technology in the educational sector
	3 Implementation of an academic certificate issuance platform
	3.1 Platform development phases
	3.2 System architecture
	3.3 Framework of Blockchain development
	3.4 Use of the API REST
	3.5 Certificate of the degree for the student of the IEBS Business School
	4 Discussion
	5 Conclusion
	6 Future directions
	References