Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class with Natural Resource Partnerships: Propinquity, Behavioral Economics, and Blockchain Game Theory Strategy
Building Human Security
and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class
with Natural Resource Partnerships:
Propinquity, Behavioral Economics,
and Blockchain Game Theory Strategy
Michael H. Peters
Abstract A 2500-year history of invasion, conquest, and resistance has left
Afghanistan ethnically diverse and culturally rich. And yet, this storied history has
bequeathed to the nation’s people a legacy of political fragmentation, economic
impoverishment, and in recent times, even some international isolation. The last
40 years of relentless conflict, encompassing two superpower invasions and decades
of a smoldering civil war, have placed entire generations of Afghans at risk for post-
traumatic stress disorder and have pushed the nation into a cycle of poverty, reduced
educational opportunity, and violence. It is the contention of this paper that several
academic concepts–the neuroscience principle of propinquity, the scholarly disci-
plines of behavioral economics and game theory, and the blockchain technology
promoted by “Satoshi Nakamoto”—can be woven together into a practical appli-
cation to create business partnerships, jobs, and an entrepreneurial middle class for
Afghanistan, thereby decreasing poverty and the fallout of crime and violence signif-
icantly. Based on these principles, a genuinely non-exploitative partnership structure
can be built between United States and Afghan interests. The central role of military
can be replaced by private sector players, to achieve through human security what
could not be achieved through kinetic force. In such a diverse culture, and amidst
the difficulties of Afghanistan’s geographical and topographical scenario, military
dominance in Afghanistan has always failed, for thousands of years. Yet, that never
would have been the true solution anyway. It seldom is. Afghanistan may utilize its
vast mineral wealth as a starting place for trade, human security and national secu-
rity, assisted but unexploited. And done in partnerships rather than as suppliers, they
may then begin to extract the wealth of its human resources and find its future as
a contributing and secure world citizen. The discussion below will sketch a broad
outline of a possible path forward, employing twenty-first century innovative busi-
ness structure to solve for the underlying long-standing impediments to security and
prosperity. Like gravity, applications of these principles are true whenever humans
compete for value or security.Anywhere self-interests have vetoed the commongood,
M. H. Peters (B)
Expert In Residence, Harvard University Graduate School of Design, 611 Pennsylvania Ave SE,
Suite 404, Washington, DC 20003, USA
e-mail: mpeters@trustedblockchain.com
© The Author(s), under exclusive license to Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021
A. Farhadi et al. (eds.), The Great Power Competition Volume 1,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64473-4_11
215
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-64473-4_11&domain=pdf
mailto:mpeters@trustedblockchain.com
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-64473-4_11
216 M. H. Peters
to the ultimate demise of both, these principles and guidelines that follow will prove
useful for building the hope of a nation.
Introduction
The United States has spent $2 trillion in the war in Afghanistan. This comes to
32 times more than in the war’s predecessor, the Gulf War. Add to that cost lost
lives, lost capacity, US and Afghan internal political strife, regional foreign policy
mayhem, and incalculable damage to an entire generation of children, and the cost
of war can be seen as incalculable. There are consequences to the decades of war,
poverty, uncertainty, surge and withdrawal, aid and no aid, missing limbs, widowed
heads of household, and lost educational opportunity. What can we do to promote
peace and human security that we have not already tried?
In the centuries of interaction between the West and East, more narrowly focused
in this document on the United States and the Silk Road of Central Asia and the
Middle East, the working model has been vendor and purchaser, supplier and buyer.
While this seems reasonable, of course, there are scenarios where national security,
human security, and economic developmentmust be valuedmore heavily than simply
getting a good price for raw material.
The true cost of exploitative transactions are seldom considered for natural
resources. Whether short-term exploitation of trees in Malawi or the rain forests,
or of minerals and gemstones in Afghanistan, or of cheap labor markets, the true
long term costs of shortcuts are generally not pondered or weighed. The short-term
gain and stockholder appeasement model of capitalistic enterprises is naturally first
priority, even if unsustainable in a timeframe as short as ten years. The billions of
dollars spent in aid and trillions in war are proof enough that the effort to control
resources and advantageous labor markets, while neglecting the people themselves
of resource-rich nations, will eventually create a hot spot of strife, if not induce moral
decay and corruption.
In what follows, I will put forth the structural revolution of building innovative
private sector partnerships to harvest humanpotential, and to capture the compounded
value of the supply chain for Afghanistan and developing nations for security and
international prosperity. This can be accomplished by combining already-recognized
elements of Behavioral Economics, Game Theory, intentional propinquity, a twenty-
first century project-based entrepreneurial education model, and mobile technology
to create the multiplying power of an entrepreneurial middle class for small busi-
ness job creation and human security. The undisputed engine of the most powerful
economy in history, twentieth and twenty-first century United States, has been its
entrepreneurship, and the “small business” job creation that naturally precipitates.
Small businesses are also the businesses that become large businesses, and continue
to create jobs. The development of human creativity, the ability to have and follow
dreams in security fuels growth in knowledge and skills, health and culture, while
reducing crime. Private sector seeding, via partnerships, can accomplish what the
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 217
military is not designed to accomplish. We will explore all of this together, and how
the principles may be intentionally employed, so to speak.
Aid is helpful, but cannot accomplish what private sector non-exploitative part-
nerships can create amongst the ambitious youth and the next generation. This
chapter will discuss this strategic approach to building a nation’s future for its chil-
dren and children’s children in the pages that follow. Blockchain game theory for
business partnerships, mobile technology previously unavailable, “scalable project-
based entrepreneurial education,” togetherwith trillions inAfghanistan’s own natural
resources, will jumpstart their future of creativity and an entrepreneurial generation.
TheBonus: Thismodelwill simultaneously develop international human potential
to tackle issues such as water and food security, emerging diseases, climate change,
and other potentially existential issues in the days to come. Every community has
genius that is tapped because of opportunity or remains untapped for a lifetime.
Developing human potential while reducing the number of emotionally damaged
youth holds a promise that kinetic military action coupled with even the best aid
programs can never accomplish. Meaningful opportunities and inspirational “educa-
tion” absolutely reduces crime and violence, and creates a future for the children of
the world.
Far and away, the best prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard, at work worth
doing. (Roosevelt 1903).
A Dilemma of Historic Magnitude
Referred to as “theCentral Asia roundabout” due to its passageway of SilkRoad trade
from the Mediterranean, Middle East, India, and China, Afghanistan has acquired
resultant settlers for millennia (Starr 2011). Yet there is even more to Afghanistan’s
ethnic and cultural diversity: the region has suffered a relentless series of invasions
and accompanying seismic cultural shifts throughout all of recorded history. From
Darius I (516 BCE) and Alexander the Great (330 BCE) to Genghis Khan (1219–
1221), from theBritish (three times from 1838–1919) to the Soviets (three times from
1929–1979), each invader has left its deposit of culture and values. This interplay of
cultural influences is dizzyingly complex. Darius Imanaged to extend Persian control
into parts of modern Afghanistan before the arrival of Alexander. The Macedonian’s
bloody foray into Bactria resulted not only in a Hellenistic-Persian-Buddhist hybrid
culture that persisted for centuries, but also in an enduring Western fixation with the
strategic importance of the region, a view that has persisted to this day (Holt 2012).
Persianizing influences continued with the emergence of the Sassanian Empire as a
regional power (224–651 (Payne 2014)). A seismic shift was set in motion by Arab
conquest of the region in the seventh and eighth centuries, although full Islamization
required nearly 500 years (Kennedy 2007). During a respite coincidingwith Europe’s
Middle Ages, Central Asia—including much of Afghanistan—experienced what
has been termed its Golden Age (Starr 2013). In the ensuing centuries, waves of
Turkic invasion and peaceful settlement left their own mark on Afghan ethnicity and
218 M. H. Peters
culture. In the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries, the invasions ofGenghis andTimur
swept through the region, causing massive depopulation (Saunders 2001). After the
rise of European colonialism, Afghanistan found itself caught up as a buffer state
between Russia and British India in the notorious Great Game contest for Central
Asian influence, suffering invasion and attempted regime change in the nineteenth
century—and arguably the twentieth as well—in consequence (Murray 2016). The
twenty-first century has yet to see a truly new paradigm emerge.
This historical sketch, while all too brief, serves to underscore an inevitable
conclusion: the legacy of this cycle of invasion and resistance has been incalcu-
lably costly. This region has fiercely retained its independence at the price of internal
fragmentation, economic underdevelopment, political isolation, and frequent radical-
ization. In the apt words of military historian Tanner (2009), “In between enduring or
resisting invasions from every point of the compass (and most recently from the air),
the Afghans have honed their martial skills by fighting among themselves, in terrain
that facilitates divisions of power and resists the concept of centralized control.”
The dream that a unified nation state could be created by pencil strokes on a map
guided the decisions of Western political elites working hurriedly and secretively in
the postwarworld to respond to the collapse of British colonialism and the emergence
of new geopolitical realities. In truth, their artificially created national boundaries
for Afghanistan stitched together a patchwork of people groups. The Constitution
of Afghanistan officially lists 14 distinct ethnic groups before adding “and others,”
an admission that even this extended list is far from complete (The Constitution
of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 2004). Indeed, modern Western academics
have tallied no fewer than 55 Afghan ethnicities (Orywal 1986). Pashtuns (40%) and
Tajiks (36%) comprise the largest ethnic groups, followed by Hazara (10%), Uzbek
(8%), and Turkmeni (2%). Each of the other recognized groups accounts for 1% or
less of Afghanistan’s population (Akseer et al. 2019). Besides the official languages
of Dari and Pashto, eight other tongues, including English, are spoken by at least 1%
of the population (Central Intelligence Agency 2020). Ethnicities remain regionally
concentrated. “The effort of European surveyors has borne fruit mainly in the form
of constant civil wars among the Afghan people. The Uzbeks, Tajiks, and Turkmen
north of theHinduKush, aswell as theHazaras among themountains, have constantly
resisted rule by the Pashtuns of the south; and vice versa” (Tanner 2009). As Nigel
J. R. Allen has commented, “Much of the problem in Afghanistan today stems from
the Eurocentric view that Afghanistan is a sovereign state internally consistent with
an undifferentiated population” (Allan 2001).
With each group come anthropologically diverse folkways andmores and dramati-
cally different embedded convictions about forms of governance, law, and leadership.
For a nation state to bring unity to a heterogenousmixture of peoples with such a high
degree of diversity is a staggering challenge, one with few parallels on the planet.
Western concepts of artificial national boundaries, forms of government, contract law
and property rights, partnerships (transactional versus relational), and definitions of
honesty and fairness, cannot be assumed. InAfghanistan, the corresponding concepts
are as diverse as the people groups and as varied as the radical and isolating regional
topography of the nation.
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 219
To illustrate an essential priority in Afghanistan, little understood by presump-
tuous or non-studious outsiders, by and large the country prefers jirga decisions—
respected village or regional leaders sitting in an egalitarian circle so that none are
viewed as superior—over the Western model of contract or criminal law, argued by
a lawyer in front of a judge and jury (Taizi 2006; Reichel 1998). That changes quite
a lot in one’s approach to the country and business and unwelcome intervention, if
one were to understand and respect this fact. In a 2019 nationwide survey of nearly
16,000 Afghans, local jirgas were rated much higher than state courts for being “fair
and trusted” (81% vs. 66%), “following local norms and values” (74% vs. 57%),
“effective at administering justice” (74% vs. 53%), and “resolving cases promptly”
(73% vs. 47%) (Akseer et al. 2019). When asked how much trust they have in any
certain groups to “do their jobs,” 67% of these Afghans expressed “some” or “a lot”
of confidence in local jirgas, while only 53% expressed confidence in their local
member of parliament, 47% in international NGOs, and 44% in government minis-
ters (Akseer et al. 2019). This example from the justice system offers a warning and a
lesson. To ignore the value system and governance convictions of a people would be
to diminish them—and to welcome the consequences of having attempted to super-
impose one’s own will and values over theirs.1 How different would this be from
trying to impose one’s religion or non-religion over an unwilling participant? Such
a misstep would be unsustainable and futile. Instead, the way forward for a viable
future for Afghanistan must resonate with local values, as diverse and nuanced as
they may be. Relationships and decisions must be embraced from within rather than
imposed from without.
Even guided by this understanding, there are formidable obstacles to helping
Afghanistan resolve the internal pain points and press outward. It is a landlocked
nation, with no rivers that can be navigated to an open sea. Roughly the size of Texas
but with a topography more analogous to Switzerland’s, Afghanistan has only 12%
arable land, with 50% of its land mass at 6550 feet elevation (2000 m) or above, and
80% of its inhabitants living in rural areas with little infrastructure or communication
(Library of Congress 2008). As a result, education for most has been informal at best.
In 2014, 59% of a national sample of Afghans reported that they had never attended
a school of any kind, while only 10% had received a high school diploma and a
scant 1% had completed a university education (Warren et al 2014). The national
poverty rate has soared in recent years, with 55% of all Afghans forced to subsist
on less than one dollar per day in 2016–2017 (Akseer and Rieger 2018). In urban
areas, 29% live in crushing poverty, while in rural areas the problem is even more
severe (Ministry of Economy 2010). There are demonstrable correlations between
poverty of this magnitude with its subsequent lack of hope and the occurrence of
violent crime stemming from convenience and need for means of subsistence (Kelly
2000). In the United States, low-income youths with few opportunities for education
or meaningful employment are much more likely to commit violent crimes than are
their higher income peers (Kearney & Harris 2014). When asked in 2019, Afghans
1See, for example, the carefully reasoned analysis of Wardak, A. (2004) Building a post-war justice
system in Afghanistan. Crime, Law and Social Change 41, 319–341.
220 M. H. Peters
troubled about the direction of their nation most often named violence and crime
(75%) and a weak economy (42%) as the cause of their pessimism (Akseet et al.
2019). When asked how often they fear for their personal safety, three-fourths of all
Afghans responded “always,” “often,” or “sometimes,”while fewer than half did so as
recently as 2012 (Akseer and Rieger 2018). One in six Afghans reported that they or
someone in their family had experienced crime during the previous year, most often
physical attack and beating (mentioned by 36% of those who reported crimes) but
also including extortion, burglary, suicide attacks, and murder (Akseet et al. 2019).
And the vicious cycle relating diminished educational opportunities and increased
violence continues full circle; in 2018, more than a thousand schools remained closed
due to security concerns, while 192 schools suffered violent attacks (Akseer et al.
2019). There is no reason to believe that hopelessness in Afghanistan has not affected
the region and the world at the cost of tens of thousands of dismembered or lost lives
and trillions of dollars, as well as a staggering opportunity cost for the Afghan people
and the world community.
Firsthand experience brings the point home. During the author’s visit to Kabul
in January 2020, virtually every building of significance was surrounded by one of
thousands of high concrete walls protected by some of themiles of razor wire in view,
and descriptions of real estate that are unimaginable to the western world (Fig. 1).
Tens of thousands of blast walls line streets and divert traffic frommain roads to side
streets. To get some idea, a reader in the West could visualize the main streets of
any familiar city and imagine that they were all blocked indefinitely with concrete
barricades and armed security checkpoints. Traffic moving at 2 km/h through key
parts of the city and diesel smoke hovering in the air are amongst the maddening
consequences of the security concerns that continue unabated even after so many
years.
Fig. 1 Kabul homes for
rent, January 2020.
Photograph by author
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 221
High Level Solution
Over the last twenty years, the United States, the UNDP, USAID, NGOs and many
additional players have sacrificed deeply in attempts to establish their closest approx-
imation of best practices for governance, economic development, and human security
in Afghanistan. According to the Watson Institute for International Affairs at Brown
University, the total cost to the US federal government alone of the so-called “War on
Terror” in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Pakistan has been $6.4 trillion, financed primarily
by borrowing at interest (Watson Institute at Brown University 2020). Human costs
on the Afghan side are harder to quantify but no less staggering. To gain some
intuition, we can consider the emotional cost.
Posttraumatic Stress Disorder (PTSD) is the subject of voluminous research
(Shalev et al. 2000). In response to a threatening or horrifying experience, victims
who develop PTSD exhibit a range of symptoms, including recurrent, involuntary
memories (“flashbacks”) and dreams; intense mental and physiological reactions to
cues that trigger these memories: avoidance of external reminders, such as people,
places, and topics of conversation; persistent negative beliefs about oneself, others,
or the world; persistent fear, horror, anger, guilt, or shame; detachment from others;
and low interest in participation in important activities (Bisson et al. 2015). PTSD is
also associated with a whole range of negative effects on overall health, taking a toll
on the immune, cardiovascular, and digestive systems and leading to unexplained
dizziness, blurred vision, sleep disorders, and chronic pain (Gupta 2013). Although
PTSD has been especially well studied in combat veterans, it has a significantly
high prevalence in civilian populations and may become widespread in a community
experiencing traumatic events. At the beginning of 2020, for example, one in three
Hong Kong adults were exhibiting symptoms consistent with PTSD after experi-
encing nine months of sporadic protests and isolated riots (Ni et al. 2020). A similar
proportion of teens in impoverished Los Angeles and Chicago neighborhoods have
been found to exhibit mental and behavioral traits consistent with PTSD (Gudiño
2013). One in three direct victims of terrorist attacks likewise experience long-term
PTSD symptoms (Paz Garcia-Vera et al. 2016). In this light, what have the 40 years
of gunshots, brawls, hatred, civil war, invasions, landmines, poverty, and joblessness
done to two generations of Afghan adults and youth?
At this point, a bit of risk for a new and creative approach may be welcome for
preserving lives, livelihoods, human security, and national/regional/world security.
What is there to lose? There is widespread realization that a change in the current
paradigm is clearly needed (Cornell and Starr 2018). If we were to look for solutions
to protect the future, taking into account the high cost of PTSD on their youth,
while recognizing the diverse priorities and convictions of Afghanistan’s ethnicity
and culture, we’re faced with a choice: We could give up (to their peril and our own,
as history has shown), or we could begin here.
222 M. H. Peters
Behavioral Economics and Anthropological Levers
If there are some common themes of passion and priority amongst all languages and
cultures and ethnicities, even in a land so diverse as Afghanistan, what would they
be? If there is a common language, non-spoken and beyond ethnic boundaries, how
might that play a role in solving security and crime problems, knowing how crime
and violence are directly correlated to economic hope and self-determination?
What drives and motivates the human species, and how might this information
serve to develop a war-torn nation without kinetic force, and without eternal depen-
dence on aid-related approaches? Here is a list of prime movers most influential to
individuals and governments, in varying degrees:
• Greed
• Fear
• Pride
• Survival instinct
• Family: protection, provision, love
• Power hunger
• Drugs, creating irrational or unintended behavior
• Exceptional individuals (the notion that nothing terribly good or terribly bad
happens without an extraordinary person who has escaped the limitations and
mediocrity of his time, for better or worse, the “great man theory” of history)
Any and all of these listed factors can alter or define the path of a man or woman
or child, or of a nation. Religion and nationalism, per se, are not listed, since humans
are prone to use these to manipulate others and to contort ideas to serve their own
ends, using deity or national pride and raw emotion to justify their actions. The list
above encompasses most religious zeal or nationalistic fervor in such cases. We will
leave the rest outside of the scope of this conversation.
Let’s return to the search for a Rosetta Stone solution to anguish and chaos,
when the tools of hope, quality of life, and intellectual stimulation are generally
unavailable to most. Such a search must begin with this list above, topics that remain
relevant—regardless of language and culture. How can this list then be woven into
a cross-cultural, multi-lingual, education-and-wealth-agnostic approach to building
relationships, business, an economy, and human security? It should be apparent
that the solutions to these problems, or circumvention thereof, must be the goals.
Regardless of language or customs, preferences for a type of governmental construct
or lifestyle, religion or geographical constraints, humans are much the same in what
they fear and what they desire. Is there a way to get to the heart of this, using internal
means, rather than simply laws or military, or external constraints fraught with the
perils of loopholes or rebellion? How might we develop human potential in a region
or nation or neighborhood filled with bad memories and a primary need for self-
preservation? Is “aid” the solution? Do natural resources alone provide a reason for
hope? I submit the answer has always been a firm “no,” generation after generation.
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 223
As a case study, while much of the world’s natural resources are found in what
are still the poorest and most violent countries on earth, South Korea became an
economic powerhouse from zero, via human development and a focus on human
capital (Kim 1991). In the spirit of Adam Smith, we can also agree that Great Britain
developed human resources and technology—and soon owned the gold and wealth
collected by Spain in that same era. Money does not solve generational problems,
directly. Afghanistan currently ranks 170 in the Human Development Index (HDI)
and relies on foreign aid for asmuch as 90%of the national budget (UNDP2019). The
literacy rate is only 31% of the adult population—17% among females nationwide,
with only 1.6% in two southern provinces (UNESCO 2020). As one of the world’s
youngest nations, with nearly two-thirds of the population under 25 years of age, the
upside potential is staggering (UNFPA 2020). So is the downside potential: if the
opportunity today in Afghanistan is lost, the consequences for future world security
cannot be ignored.
Afghanistan, with massive yet largely untapped mineral wealth, can be likened to
a family sleeping on the driveway of their $100 million mansion, because they don’t
have the keys to their own home (Risen 2010). Successful transformation of mineral
mining from a hobby economy to modern industry (Fig. 2) is a path that leads to
both human development and resource development, in contrast to merely selling
the material to others, who become wealthy at the developing country’s expense. It is
the thesis of this article that the same path of partnerships, human development, and
internal resource development (starting with the less capital expenditure-intensive
and more scalable minerals) will also lead to human security, breaking the cycle of
poverty, crime, and violent ideology—and all of this with much lower risk to human
lives or national economies.
Partnerships
With the above list of prime movers in human culture always in mind, let us now
explore how to define a cross-ethnic strategy, based on Behavioral Economics,
Blockchain Game Theory, intentional propinquity, a twenty-first century project-
based entrepreneurial education model, and mobile technology. To what end? To
foster the creation of an entrepreneurial middle class, unleashing its massive power
for small business job creation, in the process decreasing crime and violent conflict.
I suggest the seeding of a generationally secure solution for Afghanistan is
not primarily a military endeavor at this point, nor merely an “investment” of
CapEx industry or infrastructure by outside agencies or nations alone, but rather
lies in creating human development and micro-disposable income to create an
entrepreneurial creative middle class. The seed of the future is to bring the
compounded value of the supply chain for Afghan minerals “home” to them via
business partnerships between Afghans and Americans (in particular). Contrast a
partnership concept with a conventional supplier/purchaser model for raw materials.
Historically, the latter ultimately nearly guarantees failure for the nation supplying the
224 M. H. Peters
Fig. 2 Transformation of mineral resources from “hobby” economy to modern industrial economy
raw material. Exploitative removal and sale of lithium, copper, rare-earth minerals,
precious and semi-precious gemstones and other raw materials from the Hindu Kush
and other regions does not provide a future for Afghanistan, as similar extraction
models have not for other mineral rich nations.
The alternative concept reflects the reality that a simple and low purchase price
for raw materials is universal in the world of manufactured and marketed goods.
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 225
As an example, in 1996 it was estimated that the raw material of rubber used to
manufacture an automobile tire costs $8.87 (equivalent to $14.62 in 2020 dollars);
a typical manufactured tire retails today for $200 (Ferrer 1997). Another classic
example is “bottled water” that costs between 300 and 2000 times as much as tap
water (Colas 2013). And yet, selling bottled water at market prices does not yield
massive profits. Why? Because the cost of pallets, truckers’ wages, fuel, plastic
bottles, insurance, warehousing, marketing and the rest has increased the actual
manufactured cost of a third of a penny of water into seventy-five or eighty cents
of actual cost to the manufacturer. That’s how it is in the world of supply chain
management and wholesale/retail. The rubber farmer makes very little; everyone
along the chain makes at least as much. The actual profit at the point of sale may be
small, but far exceeds the rubber farmer’s portion of the product’s sales price, after
he or she has supplied the very material to create the product.
What if the raw material owner had the skills and access to control half or more
of the supply chain, processing, and marketing? What if the raw material supplier
and the rest of the supply chain were partners, rather than vendor/buyer? What if
all parties could avoid the implied struggle over price cuts, profit distribution, and
gamesmanship? Instead of the golden rule of the twenty-first century, “He who has
the gold, rules,” we might harken back to the original quotation and see what the
results may be.
Let us consider a very different model of creating wealth, capacity, and secu-
rity using a business partnership structure that leverages behavioral economics,
blockchain game theory, the neuroscience concept of propinquity, and technology
for a synergistic future. True private sector partnerships in Afghanistan with United
States partners would share the value-add multiplier that typically lands largely in
the pocket of the refiners, marketers, developers, manufacturers, branders, retailers,
and other governments. In this model, in return for providing the natural resource at
no cost to their US partner (thus solving innumerable issues), Afghans would receive
training and human resource development across the full spectrum of the required
steps to market. Afghans would share in the full revenue model as partners—rather
than remaining in the dead-end role of being a supplier only. This model creates
an entirely different and powerful dynamic, reminiscent of the “Satoshi Nakamoto”
masterpiece, the 2008 Blockchain Game Theory strategy whitepaper, which we will
address soon (Nakamoto 2008). There is a way to build security into a business
relationship that simultaneously changes the life trajectory of everyone involved.
Defining Propinquity
TheMerriam-Webster Dictionary (2020) says that “Propinquity and its cousin ‘prox-
imity’ are related through the Latin root prope, which means ‘near.’ That root gave
rise to ‘proximus’ (the parent of ‘proximity’) and ‘propinquus’ (an ancestor of
‘propinquity’).”
226 M. H. Peters
The field of social psychology has identified propinquity as a principal cause for
interpersonal attraction (Small and Adler 2019). It is nearness, rather than absence,
that tends to make the heart grow fonder—a nearness in physical proximity that
in turn fosters the increased frequency of positive experiences (Alphonso 2016).
And in any cosmopolitan or multi-ethnic society, this transfer of spatial closeness to
relational closeness is the key to building a civil society. The concept of “neighbor”
must translate into “neighborliness,” the point of the story of the Good Samaritan
(Chan 2019).Without the trust that comes from relationships that are personal, the list
of motivators in the human condition listed above, such as greed, fear, pride, power
and the like will succeed in making business and cultures mistrusting and always
searching for ways to win, rather than partner for the greater good. Humans are not
“wired” to trust, and the self-fulfilling prophecies of bad experiences only reinforce
the self-preservation motives that impede progress and human security. And yet,
“propinquity” breaks down seemingly unbreakable barriers. Whether “accidental”
or intentional, prejudices and fears are often removed bypropinquity, close proximity,
particularly in the context of shared goals or experiences.
This “propinquity effect” has beenwell documented for nearly a century. A classic
study traced the development of friendships in a small, two-floorNewYorkCity apart-
ment building in the 1940s. Unsurprisingly, near neighbors tended to be the closest
friends, while those living on separate floors were unlikely to form close relation-
ships (Festinger et al. 1950).Another frequently cited study followed the relationships
formed in the Maryland State Police Training Academy in the 1970s. Researchers
discovered that most friendships formed between trainees whose last names were
close together in an alphabetized list. Why? Because this list was used to assign the
officers to dormitory rooms and classroom seating (Segal 1974). Frequent contact
allows the discovery of commonalities and the experience of mutually enjoyed
interaction, leading to greater relationship intimacy.
That is the point. Propinquity is a neuroscience building block. Studies have
shown that proximity helps overcome racism, ethnic bias, clothing style differences,
language barriers, income inequality, education diversity, and nearly any other barrier
to relationship (Korol et al. 2018). A near-desk coworker, a next-door apartment
neighbor, mailbox neighbor, a roommate or bunkmate, or even an alphabetically
sequential classmate is up to six timesmore likely to be a friend than someone further
away or seen less frequently, regardless of race or religion or unfamiliar dress, or age
or education or marital status. In fact, to make the point on the negative side, but just
as revealing of the premise, the frequency of marriages or trysts between coworkers
who share space and meetings and deadlines is a staggering 62%, statistically. Even
in a world where business interactions are increasingly becoming more “virtual,”
they can still be infused with a sense of “social presence” if built with care—a
significant factor in harnessing the benefits of propinquity in an environment marked
by geographic isolation (Oh et al. 2018).
Propinquity is an international language and neuroscience magnet. Propinquity
applied to people intentionally empowers the development of relationships between
diverse people groups, religions, ethnicities, languages, age, and more. Break-
throughs can create a ripple effect throughout society: if my friend makes a friend
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 227
outside our “group,” this person will likely become my friend as well, a dynamic
frequently observed in children but possible for adults (Jugert and Feddes 2017).
Previous enemies for many years, suspicious and hostile due to rumor or history
or physical or cultural differences, often become friends when propinquity is intro-
duced, even against advice and contrary to their own prejudices and intentions. It’s
like gravity—it’s very hard to fight.
The power of propinquity has historically been unrecognized as a tool, and only
studied as an accidental effect. Propinquity relationship, security, and business value
have been especially difficult for Afghanistan to harness, in no small part because
of geographic and cultural barriers. What if now, propinquity could be fostered
through business structure innovation, and priming the economic and security pump
by developing Afghanistan’s mineral wealth? Mutually beneficial, positive shared
security and prosperity among people of different ethnic and tribal loyalties, while
simultaneously better integrating the nation into the global economy is surely a
legitimate objective for any nation on the world stage. Might we utilize intentional
propinquity in our structure of partnerships amongst rival tribes or international
partners previously untrusted, to build both relationships and wealth, security and
quality of life, all of which diminish crime and violence?
Intentional propinquity has been built into security structure for centuries, such
as European royalty and native Americans who intentionally shared grandchildren
across previously hostile borders and tribes to build loyalties and shared time and
mutual interests. The propinquity neuroscience effect has proven to overcome ethnic
and racial boundaries, economic, educational, language or social barriers, and of
being suspicious of the unfamiliar. The latter is often referred to today as xenophobia
or islamophobia, as well as terms yet uncoined involving distrust of American “cow-
boys” by UK business, or white carpetbaggers distrusted due to legitimately bad
experiences in many eastern countries. Intentional propinquity is to execute strate-
gically the principles of the many studied cases of happenstance propinquity in a
neighborhood or workplace.
How might this be done? Employed intentionally in business partnership struc-
tures, bring together (with a stake in the outcome of a business enterprise) the children
of leaders and youth from previously warring or competitive or untrusted families
or tribes, or foreign companies or countries, into mutually dependent business rela-
tionships. The neuroscience effect of propinquity is to build trust where there was
only suspicion or even hostility. This, combined with behavioral economics, twenty-
first century project-based entrepreneurial scalable education, and Tragedy of the
Commons game theory to make every transaction or partnership “everyone must
win or everyone will lose,” can allow business relationships structure to be utilized
for human security, job creation, and improved standards of living, rather thanmerely
the historic model of “extreme wealth to the most shrewd and most powerful,” and
the resulting hot embers of income inequality.
Since lack of challenging education and meaningful work are at the root of 60–
70% of criminal activity in the US, as revealed by a quick search of “education
employment and crime,” it stands to reason that international partnerships done well,
for human development rather than exploitation, will help break a cycle of poverty,
228 M. H. Peters
crime, and violence. This will significantly reduce the need for law enforcement
and military intervention, with their financial and social costs, as well as assist in
replacing illicit and dangerous agricultural crops often used for survival of local
villagers.
Blockchain Theory
The brilliance of Satoshi Nakamoto (likely a pseudonym) in his 2008 whitepaper
outlining a newmethodof a decentralized and secure cryptocurrency (whichmorphed
into blockchain in 2013) lies not in the cryptographic methods (Nakamoto 2008).
That is a technologywith a long and continuous history of development. The power of
Satoshi’s big idea is actually, inmy opinion, the game theory at the root of blockchain
(a word that is not used in his whitepaper, actually). What challenge was he facing,
as he hoped to create a currency that could not be controlled by a central bank, could
reflect true market value internationally, and could not be stolen by bank robbers or
embezzlers?
Satoshi baked “Tragedy of the Commons” game theory into blockchain, for the
purpose of de-incentivizing what would have been inevitable continuous “hacks” to
steal the billions in US dollars deposited in a decentralized international ungoverned
“blockchain” as cryptocurrency. Tragedy of the Commons, like “chicken” and “pris-
oner’s dilemma” and “Nash bargaining” and “Pirate,” are studies in human propen-
sities and statistical probabilities in decision making. Tragedy of the Commons, in
particular, involves the war between personal self-interest versus the common good.
If an action (say, the exploitation of a resource) creates both a benefit and a cost, and
the benefit is experienced by the individual while the cost is shared among the entire
community, an ethical dilemma is born (Hardin 1968). Originally applied to human
impact on the environment, Tragedy of the Commons theory has been shown to apply
to any number of human interactions (Hardin 1998). Antibiotic overuse, for example,
may benefit an individual yet promote the spread of antibiotic resistant superbugs
to the entire community (Porco et al 2012). Or, consider debris in near-earth orbit:
deployment of a satellite, with no ability to safely deorbit it after failure, may benefit
the nation or organization that owns the craft, while simultaneously adding to the risk
experienced by others who wish to use near-earth orbital space, or not to experience
the dangers of loss of orbit by something from which they never benefitted (Salter
2015). The applications of Tragedy of the Commons theory to economics are legion.
That is the Tragedy of the Commons game theory strategy, in short.Who benefits?
Whogains?What are themotivations formaking a deal, or violating a deal, or stealing
from that deal?Howmight the deal be constructed so that the common good, the good
of others, coincides rather than competes with individual personal benefit? Satoshi
built “the blockchain” (although this word was not present in his initial whitepaper,
and supply chain use of this idea and “blockchain” was not introduced until 2013)
in such a way that a person seeking to steal or destroy would lose more (mining,
“proof of work,” computing and electrical costs, peer reputational destruction, and
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 229
immediate devaluation of stolen assets) by the theft than would be gained by that
same player spending his energy protecting the blockchain from others.
One can make the case that the deep mathematical encryption within the
blockchain structure is always conquerable to the clever, gifted, and determined.
And that encryption, no matter how powerful, is far less powerful in mitigating
corruption than his introduction of Tragedy of the Commons Game Theory where
the dishonest have their own motives used against them to preserve the value of the
deal. Satoshi turned the insidious hackers of the world into defenders and protectors
of the blockchain, they themselves closing doors as quickly as anyone else could
open them. The enemies became allies, because self-interest and the common good
have become identical.
The technical details of the technology are not our discussion point here, perhaps
to the readers’ relief. The underlying principles are remarkably simple. In a busi-
ness structure “use case” of blockchain theory the risk of a tarnished reputation
is so visible that a violator may be forever ending future business relationships.
In addition, there is the financial cost of dishonesty or broken trust exceeding the
value of disingenuous, greedy, or corrupt behavior. The loss of financial and business
value to themselves due to the nature of the “blockchain partnership structure” of
shared responsibility is a powerful disincentive to engage in behavior that benefits
“self” at others’ expense. In short, selfish interests resolved in the common good
and “reputation helps solve the ‘tragedy of the commons,’” even when dealings are
with individuals outside one’s own social group, such as from another country but
built into their “blockchain” business partnership (Millinski et al. 2002). Blockchain
forges a link between ethical social behavior and individual reputation by creating
a transparent, verifiable, traceable, and permanent record of the deal and business
transactions, distributed openly to the entire community (Iansiti and Lakhani 2017).
Unethical behavior is immediately daylighted, and the consequences are likewise
immediate.
As we build partnerships and foster propinquity in Afghanistan, we are proposing
to utilize the power of blockchain philosophy social and economic “technology” as
a structural component for conducting business in an environment where security
and trust concerns play a major role—as, in fact, they always do. If partnerships are
structured to incorporate “we allwin orwe all lose,” trust is built based on self-interest
and the structure itself.
Our team has developed and patented supply chain blockchain software and hard-
ware for Afghanistan’s mineral industry to demonstrate and prove anti-crime ethical
sourcing, and fair trade, from the mine to customer (ethicallysourced.com, trust-
edblockchain.com) using human-free oracles for geotagging, time stamps, baro-
metric pressure and AI to chart topography to market, RFID control points, fair trade
biometrics, material science scans, photos of the miners, and all data unalterably
on the blockchain and IPFS. This blockchain application is likewise available for
Afghanistan voting, licenses, property rights, records, medical use, and other areas
of need. But, more importantly in some ways, we have also quite successfully imple-
mented this “tragedy of the commons blockchain business structure” in Afghanistan,
to the benefit of all. Win–win.
230 M. H. Peters
Behavioral Economics
A recent Nobel Prize in this field and the publication of many books and papers on
the topic2 have made unnecessary a deep discussion here. Instead, we will consider a
quick listing of the Behavioral Economics (BE) principles that should be considered
as business structure is framed to overcome language, culture, bias, distance, and
security issues.
Defaulting. Keep it simple. The simplest path is usually the path most chosen,
especially in complex scenarios with a proliferation of options (Huh et al. 2014).
Social Proof . Among participants in a study, 44% more people will make a choice
because others are known to be doing it, rather than basing their choice on the factual
options themselves (Cialdini 2001). In themarketplace, customer ratings and reviews
have emerged as a powerful motivator—or demotivator—for sales (Amblee & Bui
2011). Word of mouth and visible participation builds community trust.
Loss Aversion. Humans are twice as likely to make the exact same decision if the
question is framed in terms of protection against losing something they have or
might have had, versus promoting what they might gain from a decision (Kahneman
& Tversky 1979). Loss aversion is a deeply human trait, apparently hardwired in
certain dopamine-regulated regions of the human brain (Tom et al. 2007).
Greed, Fear, Pride, Survival, Family, Power, Drugs, Great Man Theory… I submit
that, just as the list above reflects some of the reasons that “rational” economics don’t
always “work”—this list hasmore power over decisions than normal logical behavior
might have predicted. Flight-or-fight adrenaline and norepinephrine hormones, while
they are helpful for exercising power, are not useful for promoting business collabo-
ration, whereas dopamine, serotonin, and oxytocin are relationship and deal builders
(House and Singh 1987; Shamay-Tsoory and Abu-Akel 2016). Everyone who has
lived with a marriage partner, raised children, or negotiated a difficult business deal
already has experience in initiating hormone dumps of either category. An awareness
that these same principles affect human interactions at all levels will be required to
forge a way forward in Afghanistan.
In short, building mutually beneficial, propinquity-promoting business relation-
ships in Afghanistan will not come by defining rational behavior in a policy meeting
and enforcing it by a show of power. Experience teaches us otherwise. Instead, it
will rely, among other things, on the principles of Behavioral Economics, such as
Nobel Laureate Richard Thaler’s “Nudge”: decision makers “choosing actions that
are intended to make the affected parties better off as defined by themselves,” and
2See, for example: Camerer, C. F., Loewenstein, G., &Rabin,M. (Eds.). (2004).Advances in Behav-
ioral Economics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press; Camerer, Colin F. and Loewenstein,
George (2003)Behavioral Economics: Past, Present, Future. In:Advances in Behavioral Economics.
Roundtable Series in Behavioral Economics. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press., pp. 1–61;
Wilkinson, N., & Klaes, M. (2017). An Introduction to Behavioral Economics. Macmillan Interna-
tional Higher Education; Camerer, C. (1999). Behavioral economics: Reunifying psychology and
economics. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 96(19), 10,575–10,577.
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 231
creating a “choice architecture” that will make entering into collaboration “easier,
but no one is forced to do anything” (Thaler).
Business and Partnership Structure to Rebuild a Nation
Imagine a group of people trapped in an auditorium by a criminal gang, bent on
extorting a ransom—or they will murder all of the hostages. We can’t know what
would cause the gang leader to gas to death all of the hostages.We do know, however,
what would guarantee that he would not gas the auditorium: if he were told his
grandchildren were now inside the auditorium. The siege will turn 180 degrees and
be lifted in a heartbeat. Regardless of culture or religion or form of governance pref-
erence, regardless of greed, fear, pride, power, or other motivators, the “deal” can be
constructed to turn self-interest into the protection of the common good. Partnerships
created this way, the way of propinquity/game theory/behavioral economics, project
based scalable education, and the macroeconomic concept of creating a multiplying
economy via a seeded entrepreneurial middle class, rather than “investments” and
“aid” and “supplier–buyer” supply chain management. As one renowned expert on
this part of the world said recently, “This can work. It has the right stuff” (Shivers
2020).
We have established that trust is difficult enough to come by, and guarantees are
nonexistent on this planet.We have further established that PTSDof a nationweighed
down by 50 years of unspeakable stress does not help foster trust or stability. We
have mentioned the lack of technology, the isolating topography, the multitude of
ethnic groups and cultures in Afghanistan effecting philosophies of governance and
relationships and religious nuance, and the Silk Road and invasion influences.
Butwhat is commonamong the diverse groups?They all,we all, have children, and
we all are someone’s child. And regardless of race or religion or age or education or
financial status, everyone desires their children have hope and provision and a future.
There are motives that exceed greed and fear, when opportunities are presented and
executed fairly, and the alternatives are understood to be “more of the same” that no
one desires.
So, using the “technologies” mentioned above, how do we create an
entrepreneurial middle class? In the US, 60% of jobs are “small business” jobs,
originally created by an “average” person with a great idea, and a little bit of money
to hire two of his friends in a garage (Erlanger andGovela 2019). If the reader requires
convincing, he or she need only consult the histories of now immense companies
such as Amazon, Apple, Disney, Google, Harley Davidson, Hewlett Packard, and
Mattel, to name but a few examples. Even the photos of their original garages are
available to one searching for them. The “design” of the powerful US economy is
the freedom of a little time, connected relationships, and a little bit of extra money
to create and explore new ideas. How do we open this door for developing nations?
As mentioned, “investments” alone are not the secret sauce, nor are aid programs
or intervention by NGO’s or governments. That is merely feeding and teaching a
232 M. H. Peters
nation to fish, and walking away leaving them without bait or fishing poles or nets,
or a place to market their goods. These well-meaning measures have never worked
to build human security or to develop human resources and a sustainable, secure
economy or life for a nation, long term. In truth, no one denies the fact that “aid” can
create the exact opposite effect of the self-determined future everyone would prefer.
We need different measures, different structures built on the above principles where
exploitation is nearly impossible and partnerships are win–win for all of the private
sector partners and governments, in international and local relations.
A Current Example of These Principles Implemented in One
Industry
The classic business structures of contract law, hierarchy, debt and equity, supplier
and buyer are deeply inadequate in an environment as diverse and difficult as
Afghanistan. Let’s reimagine the paradigm.The following simple but powerfulmodel
is already proving successful in its early days in Afghanistan, with colored precious
gemstones as a test case. What if we were to structure our business deals that might
surround the $3 Trillion or so in natural resources in Afghanistan in a way that:
• Afghans and US are equals in the business, 50–50. Equals. No vendor/buyer
environment—where a struggle for better prices may result in dishonesty, or lack
of safety for workers, or other forms of loss for one party or another. This is
inevitable in old-school competitive structures.
• Afghans add the raw materials to the supply chain, incentivized to keep costs
low and safety high because they share in the final profit margin of the entire
compounded value of the supply chain, rather than single transactions. 1.2 times
1.2 times 1.2 times 1.2 equals a doubling of cost with four steps of profit taking in
the supply chain after the raw material stage. If villagers are partners rather than
suppliers, they can easily double their income with exactly the same amount of
work.
• All of the other elements of Intellectual Property, and the manufacturing and
marketing and distribution, are provided by the US partner with all of the upline
profits being split with the Afghans.
• In return for raw material access, the children of the leaders from all areas of the
country, as well as villagers with previously little hope for upward mobility, are
trained in every aspect of the chain, from lapidary skills, to inventory control and
software, to app development and ecommerce, to blockchain coding, to graphic
design, and laboratory skills.
As with Blockchain game theory, it is in no one’s best interest to damage the
business or steal from it or misrepresent it to others. To the contrary, everyone who
may have been inclined to use their power to damage the business or steal its assets
now has every interest in protecting that business, for their children and for their
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 233
nation. If onewins, everyonewins. If anyone loses, everyone loses. If bias or prejudice
or culture get in the way, everyone loses. Propinquity, game theory, and behavioral
economics are harnessed to create a scalable entrepreneurial middle class with its
generational multiplier effect. The opportunities for creative application of these
principles are endless.
As an academic, a scientist, and an entrepreneur it is my observation that we,
in the west, have been trapped for many years into our perspectives and structures
borrowed from Athens, Rome and the British Empire. In so doing, we have been at
a loss of how to overcome barriers, build trust, and do business by using universal
communicators rather than contract law and western (often alienating) assumptions.
While the various means of applying the above principles are endless, it is my
contention that these are the principles required to overcome the tragedies of poverty,
war, crime, and alienation, as well as for building strong families and communities
and domestic businesses.
Days are early, but the author can report the following observations:
• During a January 2020 visit to Kabul, from the highest level of Afghan officials,
“Contact me anytime day or night,” and “Expect my full support, and always at
no charge,” with “no corruption.”
• During the autumn of 2019, previous tribal leaders, some referred to by others
as “warlords” (though perhaps more aptly sometimes “those who were trying to
protect their families in a nation at war”) and businessmen who had been at odds
for two or three generations, now warmly shake hands and share meals together
and with us.
• During the spring of 2019, Afghan young peoplewhose liveswere at risk from bad
influences, drugs, and crime, express excitement that they are learning a lucrative
life-skill.
• In 2018, in the executive lunch hall on Capitol Hill, a 30-year US Congressman
who had “opposed Afghanistan involvement” his entire career, changed his mind
during lunch after discussing these principles.
The above evidence is anecdotal, of course, and many challenges must be
overcome. However, I put forth the proposition that it is possible to create an
entrepreneurial middle class that multiplies jobs, rather than merely adding jobs.
Henry Ford created unknowingly a happy accident at the turn of the last century Ford
paid assembly line workers double daily pay to slow turnover rates, resulting inmany
workers with a little extra money starting a new business with a friend. Since then,
well over half of all jobs in the United States, the powerhouse economy of the world
for 100 years, are “small business” jobs, created by an entrepreneurial middle class.
The driver of the US economy is still a middle class with a tiny amount of extra cash,
and a good idea. Investment in large capital expenditure projects and aid programs is
incapable of accomplishing the multiplier effect of an entrepreneurial middle class.
In fact, at some point such expensive projects may damage self-determination and
human growth and security, more than they assist, as anti-trust advocates have argued
at times. In contrast, there is reason for optimism that the principles outlined in this
234 M. H. Peters
paper can prove successful in creating a long-term platform for peace and economic
growth in Afghanistan and potentially in other developing nations.
Consequences for Great Power Competition
The timehas come to reimagine the role ofAfghanistan in theworld.No longer should
it be considered a “buffer state,” a shock absorber to keep superpower combatants
fromdirect conflict. It is possible forUSbusinesses and public–private partnerships to
build a truly collaborative relationshipwithAfghanistan interests. Both parties would
gain from the partnership, and the increase in regional stability and security would
truly benefit the entire planet. The consequences of missing an opportunity to build
deep relationships in “the roundabout of Central Asia” is reflected in this statistic
from the International Monetary Fund regarding the Great Power competition: In the
year 2000, 80%of all nations tradedwith theUnited States as their top trading partner.
By 2018, that number was less than 30%. China now holds the top trading position
with 128 out of 190 nations (Leng and Rajah 2020). While most trading partners and
allies still regard the US as the world’s leading economic power, China is moving
rapidly toward that position in the eyes of many (Wike et al. 2017). China is utilizing
both scale (the engine of profit and growth) and international dependent relationships
to become the great power of the future. As they control relationships internationally,
resources for electronics such as rare earth minerals, as well as transportation and
energy hubs and pathways, the case for the United States playing a stronger strategic
role via partnerships is strong. Instead of the inevitability of losing tender bidding
wars to the cash-heavy Chinese (government controlled and subsidized) operators,
or Russia or Iran, we can simultaneously solve national security, regional security,
human security, and business opportunities, reduce military costs, and build lasting
relationships based on trust and friendships of mutual benefit, across cultural and
religious barriers.
How? A Marshall Plan of Sorts.
Help create an entrepreneurial middle class anywhere a footprint is useful or help is
needed for security, via scalable entrepreneurial project-based education (this does
not require dedicated structures and the exceptional teachers required by a reused-but-
now-deficient nineteenth century “lecture” and repeat “simon-says” model of educa-
tion). Add to this business partnerships in any industry that incorporate the struc-
ture previously discussed of game theory, propinquity, and behavioral economics.
Sharing of the supply chain can replace the vendor/buyer relationships that persist
in extracting wealth from those who need it most. As has been proven repeatedly,
the resultant loss of societal equilibrium, loss of security and prosperity, and the
crescendo of anger and hopelessness—is a gap soon filled by nefarious characters or
by internal turmoil for neighborhoods, nations, and the world. With some creativity,
a little courage, and an innovative strategy we can take back what has been taken
from us in the last 18 years we’ve been busy, engaged in other matters.
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 235
References
T. Akseer, J. Rieger (eds.), Afghanistan in 2018: A Survey of the Afghan People (The Asia
Foundation, San Francisco, 2018)
T.Akseer,K.Hayat, E.C.Keats, S.R.Kazimi,C.Maxwell-Jones,M.S. Shiwan,D. Swift,M.Yadgari,
F.A. Yousufzai, A Survey of the Afghan People: Afghanistan in 2019 (The Asia Foundation, San
Francisco, California, 2019).
N.J.R. Allan, Defining place and people in Afghanistan. Post-Sov. Geogr. Econ. 42(8), 545–560
(2001)
C. Alphonso, Propinquity, in Encyclopedia of Family Studies (2016), pp. 1–3
N. Amblee, T. Bui, Harnessing the influence of social proof in online shopping: the effect of
electronic word of mouth on sales of digital microproducts. Int. J. Electron. Commerc. 16(2),
91–114 (2011)
J.I. Bisson, S. Cosgrove, C. Lewis, N.P. Robert, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder. BMJ (Clinical
Research Ed.) 351, h6161 (2015)
Central Intelligence Agency, The World Factbook 2019–20. Central Intelligence Agency (2020),
https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/xx.html.
J.K.H. Chan, Propinquity, in Urban Ethics in the Anthropocene (Palgrave Macmillan, Singapore,
2019)
R.B. Cialdini, Harnessing the science of persuasion. Harv. Busin. Rev. 79(9), 72–79 (2001)
N. Colas, As quoted in Rosenberg A. Message in a Bottle: What Water Sales Tell Us About
the Economy. CNBC, July 12, 2013 (2013), https://www.cnbc.com/id/100883042. Accessed 22
March 2020
The Constitution of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan (Ratified) (2004), https://www.embassyof
afghanistan.org/page/constitution/. Accessed 22 March 2020
S.E. Cornell, F.S. Starr, Modernization and Regional Cooperation in Central Asia: A New Spring.
CentralAsia-Caucasus Institute&SilkRoadStudies Program, SilkRoadPaper, November (2018)
O. Erlanger, L.O. Govela, Garage (MIT Press, Cambridge, 2019)
G. Ferrer, The economics of tire remanufacturing. Resources, conservation and recycling. Sci.
Direct19(4), 221–255 (1997)
L. Festinger, S. Schachter, K.W. Back, Social Pressures in Informal Groups: A Study of Human
Factors in Housing (Harper, New York, 1950)
O.G. Gudiño, Behaviorial inhibition and risk for posttraumatic stress symptoms in Latino children
exposed to violence. J. Abnorm. Child Psychol. 41(6), 983–992 (2013)
M.A. Gupta, Review of somatic symptoms in post-traumatic stress disorder. Int. Rev. Psychiatr.
25(1), 86–99 (2013)
G. Hardin, Extensions of the tragedy of the commons. Science 280(5364), 682–683 (1998)
G. Hardin, The tragedy of the commons. Science 162(3859), 1243–1248 (1968)
F.L. Holt, Into the Land of Bones: Alexander the Great in Afghanistan, vol. 47 (University of
California Press, Oakland, 2012)
R.J. House, J.V. Singh, Organizational behavior: some new directions for I/O psychology. Annu.
Rev. Psychol. 38(1), 669–718 (1987)
Y.E. Huh, J. Vosgerau, C.K. Morewedge, Social defaults: observed choices become choice defaults.
J. Consum. Res. 41(3), 746–760 (2014); S.S. Iyengar, E. Kamenica, Choice proliferation,
simplicity seeking, and asset allocation. J. Pub. Econ. 94(7-8), 530-539 (2010)
M. Iansiti, K.R. Lakhani, The truth about blockchain. Harv. Busin. Rev. January–February, 118–127
(2017)
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan Ministry of Economy and the World Bank Economic Policy and
Poverty Sector, Poverty Status in Afghanistan. PowerPoint Presentation (2010)
https://siteresources.worldbank.org/AFGHANISTANEXTN/Resources/305984-1326909014678/
8376871-1334700522455/PovertyStatusLaunchPresentation.pdf. Accessed 22 March 22 2020
P. Jugert, A.R. Feddes, Children’s and adolescents’ cross-ethnic friendships, in TheWiley-Blackwell
Handbook of Group Processes in Children and Adolescents (2017), pp. 373–392
https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/xx.html
https://www.cnbc.com/id/100883042
https://www.embassyofafghanistan.org/page/constitution/
https://siteresources.worldbank.org/AFGHANISTANEXTN/Resources/305984-1326909014678/8376871-1334700522455/PovertyStatusLaunchPresentation.pdf
236 M. H. Peters
D. Kahneman, A. Tversky, Prospect theory: an analysis of decision under risk. Econometrica 47(4),
263–291 (1979)
M. Kearney, B.H. Harris, Ten Economic Facts about Crime and Incarceration in the United States
(The Hamilton Project, Brooking Institute, Washington, D.C., 2014)
M. Kelly, Inequality and crime. Rev. Econ. Stat. 82(4), 530–539 (2000)
H. Kennedy, The Great Arab Conquests: How the Spread of Islam Changed the World We Live In
(Da Capo Press, Philadelphia, 2007)
K.S. Kim, The Korean miracle (1962-1980) Revisited: Myths and Realities in Strategy and Devel-
opment (Helen Kellogg Institute for International Studies, University of Notre Dame, 1991); J.
Minns, Of miracles and models: the rise and decline of the developmental state in South Korea.
Third World Q. 22(6), 1025-1043 (2001)
L. Korol, A.W. Fietzer, J.G. Ponterotto, The relationship between multicultural personality, inter-
group contact, and positive outgroup attitudes toward Asian Americans. Asian Am. J. Psychol.
9(3), 200 (2018)
A. Leng, R. Rajah, Chart of the week: global trade through a US-China lens (2020), https://www.
lowyinstitute.org/the-interpreter/chart-week-global-trade-through-us-china-lens. Accessed 25
March 2020
Library of Congress, Country Profile: Afghanistan (Library of Congress—Federal Research
Division, Washington, D.C., 2008)
Merriam-Webster (2020), https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/propinquity#note-1.
Accessed 25 March 2020
M. Milinski, D. Semmann, H.J. Krambeck, Reputation helps solve the ‘tragedy of the commons’.
Nature 415(6870), 424-426 (2002); P. Barclay, Trustworthiness and competitive altruism can also
solve the “tragedy of the commons”. Evolut. Human Behav. 25(4), 209-220 (2004)
C. Murray, Sikunder Burnes: Master of the Great Game (Birlinn, Edinburgh, 2016)
S. Nakamoto, Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System (2008), https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.
pdf
M.Y. Ni, X.I. Yao, K.S. Leung, C. Yau, C.M. Leung, P. Lun, G.M. Leung, Depression and post-
traumatic stress during major social unrest in Hong Kong: a 10-year prospective cohort study.
The Lancet 395(10220), 273–284 (2020)
C.S.Oh, J.N. Bailenson,G.F.Welch,A systematic reviewof social presence: definition, antecedents,
and implications. Front. Robot. AI 5, 114 (2018). https://brandongaille.com/19-unbelievable-wor
kplace-romance-statistics/
E. Orywal, Die Ethnische Gruppen Afghanistans: Fallstudien Zu Gruppenidentitaet Und Inter-
gruppenbeziehungen (The Ethnic Groups of Afghanistan: Case Studies of Group Identity and
Intergroup Relations) (Ludwig Reichert, Wiesbaden, Germany, 1986)
R. Payne, 16: The reinvention of Iran: The Sasanian Empire and the huns, in The Cambridge
Companion to the Age of Attila (2014), p. 282
M. Paz García-Vera, J. Sanz, S. Gutiérrez, A systematic review of the literature on posttraumatic
stress disorder in victims of terrorist attacks. Psychol. Rep. 119(1), 328–359 (2016)
T.C. Porco, D. Gao, J.C. Scott, E. Shim, W.T. Enanoria, A.P. Galvani, T.M. Lietman, When does
overuse of antibiotics become a tragedy of the commons? PLoS One 7(12) (2012)
P. Reichel, Comparative Criminal Justice Systems (Prentice-Hall, New York, 1998)
J. Risen, US identifies vast mineral riches in Afghanistan. The New York Times (2010), https://www.
nytimes.com/2010/06/14/world/asia/14minerals.html
T.Roosevelt,ASquareDeal (Speech given toNewYork StateAgriculturalAssociation inRochester,
NY, 1903)
A.W. Salter, Space debris: a law and economics analysis of the orbital commons. Stan. Tech. L.
Rev. 19, 221 (2015)
J.J. Saunders,TheHistory of theMongol Conquests (University of Pennsylvania Press, Philadelphia,
2001)
M.W.Segal, Propinquity, alphabet and attraction: an unobtrusivemeasure of the effect of propinquity
in a field setting. J. Pers. Soc. Psychol. 30, 654–657 (1974)
https://www.lowyinstitute.org/the-interpreter/chart-week-global-trade-through-us-china-lens
https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/propinquity#note-1
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
https://brandongaille.com/19-unbelievable-workplace-romance-statistics/
https://www.nytimes.com/2010/06/14/world/asia/14minerals.html
Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class … 237
A.Y. Shalev, R. Yehuda, A.C. McFarlane, International Handbook of Human Response to Trauma
(Kluwer Academic/Plenum Press, New York, New York, 2000)
S.G. Shamay-Tsoory, A. Abu-Akel, The social salience hypothesis of oxytocin. Biolog.
Psychiatr. 79(3), 194–202 (2016); M.C. Soares, R. Bshary, L. Fusani, W. Goymann, M. Hau,
K. Hirschenhauser, R.F. Oliveira, Hormonal mechanisms of cooperative behaviour. Philosop.
Trans. R. Soc. B Biolog. Sci. 365(1553), 2737–2750 (2010)
M. Shivers, Great Power Competition Conference (Tampa, Florida, USF, January, 2020)
M.L. Small, L. Adler, The role of space in the formation of social ties. Ann. Rev. Sociol. 45, 111–132
(2019)
F.S. Starr, Afghanistan Beyond the Fog of Nation Building: Giving Economic Strategy a Chance
(Central Asia-Caucasus Institute & Silk Road Studies Program, Washington, D.C., 2011)
F.S. Starr, The Lost Enlightenment. Central Asia’s Golden Age from the ArabConquest to Tamerlane
(Princeton University Press, Princeton, 2013)
S. Taizi, Jirga System in Tribal Life (Tribal Analysis Center, Williamsburg, VA, 2006)
S. Tanner, Afghanistan: AMilitary History from Alexander the Great to the War Against the Taliban
(Da Capo Press, Philadelphia, 2009), p. 1
S.M. Tom, C.R. Fox, C. Trepel, R.A. Poldrack, The neural basis of loss aversion in decision-making
under risk. Science 315(5811), 515–518 (2007)
UNESCO Office in Kabul, Enhancement of Literacy in Afghanistan (ELA) Programme (2020),
https://www.unesco.org/new/en/kabul/education/youth-and-adult-education/enhancement-of-lit
eracy-in-afghanistan-iii/
UNFPA Afghanistan, Young People (2020), https://afghanistan.unfpa.org/en/node/15227
UNICEF spokesperson, as quoted in “Attacks on Afghan Schools Nearly Triple, Warns UNICEF,”
Deutsche Welle, May 28, 2019 (2020), https://p.dw.com/p/3JGJ9. Accessed 24 March 2020
Z. Warren, S.A. Kabuli, S. Sarabi, S.M. Sadat, C. Satkowski, A. Steppe, Afghanistan in 2014: A
Survey of the Afghan People (Asia Foundation, 2014)
TheWatson Institute for International and Public Affairs, Brown University. “Cost of War.” (2020),
https://watson.brown.edu/costsofwar/costs/economic. Accessed 24 March 2020
R. Wike, J. Poushter, L. Silver, C. Bishop, Globally, more name US than China as world’s leading
economic power. Pew Res. Center 13 (2017)
https://www.unesco.org/new/en/kabul/education/youth-and-adult-education/enhancement-of-literacy-in-afghanistan-iii/
https://afghanistan.unfpa.org/en/node/15227
https://p.dw.com/p/3JGJ9
https://watson.brown.edu/costsofwar/costs/economic
	 Building Human Security and an Entrepreneurial Middle Class with Natural Resource Partnerships: Propinquity, Behavioral Economics, and Blockchain Game Theory Strategy
	Introduction
	A Dilemma of Historic Magnitude
	High Level Solution
	Behavioral Economics and Anthropological Levers
	Partnerships
	Defining Propinquity
	Blockchain Theory
	Behavioral Economics
	Business and Partnership Structure to Rebuild a Nation
	A Current Example of These Principles Implemented in One Industry
	Consequences for Great Power Competition
	References