Design and Analysis of Incentive Mechanism for Ethereum-based Supply Chain Management Systems
Design and Analysis of Incentive Mechanism for 
Ethereum-based Supply Chain Management 
Systems 
Pranesh S A
1,a
, Vignesh Kannan V
2,a
, Viswanathan N 
3,a
, M.Vijayalakshmi
4,a
 
a
Computer Science and Engineering,  
Thiagarajar College of Engineering, Madurai, India 
1
pranesh1362@gmail.com 
2
vigneshkannan.vvk@gmail.com 
3
visuct8@gmail.com 
4
mviji@tce.edu 
 
Abstract— Blockchain is becoming more popular because 
of its decentralized, secured, and transparent nature. 
Supply chain and its management is indispensable to 
improve customer services, reduce operating costs and 
improve financial position of a firm. Integration of 
blockchain and supply chain is substantial, but it alone is 
not enough for the sustainability of supply chain systems. 
The proposed mechanism speaks about the method of 
rewarding the supply chain parties with incentives so as to 
improve the security and make the integration of supply 
chain with blockchain sustainable. The proposed incentive 
mechanism employs the co-operative approach of game 
theory where all the supply chain parties show a co-
operative behavior of following the blockchain-based 
supply chain protocols and also this mechanism makes a 
fair attempt in rewarding the supply chain parties with 
incentives.  
Keywords—Blockchain, permissionless, reward, ethereum, 
incentive, game theory, supply chain 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Blockchain is an immutable record of events and 
transactions that can be extended to a number of 
operations and use-cases. Fifty three percent of 
organizations say that blockchain technology has 
become a critical priority for them in 2019 which is a 
ten-point increase over 2018 [1]. Moreover, in India, 
blockchain related job growth rates are at 2000-6000% 
and the salary of blockchain developers is 50-100% 
higher than that of regular developers [2]. The 
following are the reasons that show blockchain is the 
future: (1) no more middle men, (2) diverse 
implementation potential, (3) rapid growth in market 
value, (4) use in e-governance, (5) confidence 
of  business leaders. Blockchain finds its application in 
many avenues such as healthcare [3], supply chain 
systems [4] [5], etc. 
 Supply chain may be a network of components that 
deal with producing and moving a product from 
provisioner to purchaser. There are different parties 
such as designer, manufacturer, distributor, etc., in the 
supply chain those are required to coordinate among 
themselves to ensure on-time delivery without failure. 
All the supply chain parties are to be integrated to 
reduce the costs and increase the operational efficiency 
of enterprises and more importantly to build sustainable 
supply chain [6].The integration of all the supply chain 
parties is possible through blockchain. But to make all 
the supply chain parties follow the protocol, it is 
necessary to introduce attractive incentive mechanisms 
that transfer rewards to the supply chain parties. We 
have developed an AI based incentive mechanism that 
makes a fair attempt in providing incentives to all the 
parties in the supply chain. The incentive mechanism 
was engineered exploiting the co-operative approach of 
game theory. Game theory explores how rational 
individuals make strategic selections in numerous 
eventualities. It is strictly based on mathematical terms 
and has its application in blockchain networks. Co-
operative game theory assumes that a group of players 
called coalitions, is the primary units of decision 
making and may enforce co-operative behaviour 
between coalitions of players striving to achieve a 
common goal. In the supply chain, all the parties 
exhibit a co-operative behaviour by following the 
blockchain based supply chain protocol. 
A. Blockchain 
Blockchain is the kind of data structure that permits 
following transactions digitally and sharing 
information across computers, making an exceeding 
distributed trust in a network. The distributed ledger 
technology offered by blockchain provides a clear and 
secure suggestion for the possession and transfer of 
assets. Blockchain uses cryptography to form a 
distributed trust network where every participant on the 
network is in a position to govern the digital ledger of 
transactions firmly while not requiring a central 
authority. Blockchain is a worldwide ledger that 
anyone on the network will read at any time. All the 
transactions are verified, and clearly recorded in a 
block that is encrypted and saved sporadically and is 
linked to the preceding block, making a series that 
makes the blockchain. Security, time-stamping and 
recording all the transactions makes it extraordinarily 
obedient for a user. Also, a block once mined cannot be 
modified because of its immutable nature which makes 
the blockchain more secured. 
B. Supply chain 
Supply chain management is the phenomenon of 
managing the flow of products and aids and includes all 
processes that overhauls raw materials into finished 
IEEE - 49239
11th ICCCNT 2020 
July 1-3, 2020 - IIT - Kharagpur, 
Kharagpur, India Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
goods. An offer chain could be a network of shops, 
distributors, transporters, storage facilities, and 
suppliers who participate within the production, 
delivery, and sales of a product that converts and moves 
products from raw materials to finished goods. It 
describes the processes and organisations concerned in 
changing and transferring the products from 
manufacturers to customers. Through blockchain, 
corporations gain a time period digital ledger of 
transactions and movements for all participants in their 
offer chain network that successively increase the 
resource utilization and provides additional financial 
gain. A model supply chain is shown in Fig.1. 
 
 
Fig.1. Supply Chain Management System 
C. Game theory  
Game theory is the method of modelling the strategic 
interaction between two or more players during a 
scenario containing a set of rules and outcomes. It deals 
with a scenario containing two or more players that 
involve better-known payouts or quantitative 
consequences. We will use the theory of games to assist 
and confirm the foremost doubtless outcomes like any 
conception in the economy and there's the idea of 
rationality. There is conjointly an assumption of 
maximization and it is assumed that players are rational 
and can try to maximise their payoffs within the game. 
D. Cooperative and Non cooperative game theory  
Cooperative game theory assumes that teams of 
players, referred as coalitions, are the first units of 
decision-making, and will enforce cooperative 
behaviour. Consequently, cooperative games are often 
seen as a contest between coalitions of players, instead 
of contest between individual players. All the players 
in a coalition work along for achieving a standard goal. 
Non-cooperative games are usually analysed through 
the framework of non-cooperative game theory that 
tries to predict players' individual methods and payoffs. 
It is opposite to cooperative theory of games. 
E. Incentives 
Incentive mechanisms are tools accustomed to 
encourage, acknowledge and reward exceptional 
performance. Incentive plans usually are to encourage 
those who are concerned within the network. There are 
various benefits related to encouraging business 
through the employment of incentives, since incentives 
make sure that the work goes on and each of the users 
and also the reward payers have been benefited through 
the inducement of incentive mechanism. Once the 
individuals concerned, work along the incentive plans, 
they establish a way of comradeliness and propulsion 
for the commonweal which can strengthen the 
business. It also leads to enhanced productivity and 
makes sure if the cycle goes on with no delays. 
F. Contribution 
The contribution of this paper is as follows: 
 Design of the algorithm to calculate the 
incentives 
 Analysis of the algorithm with respect to the 
Average transaction fee 
 Establish fairness in rewarding the supply 
chain parties with incentives 
The rest of the paper is presented as follows. Section 2 
reviews the previously published papers and their pros 
and cons. Section 3 describes the proposed algorithm 
for the calculation of incentives. Section 4 analyses the 
performance of the algorithm with respect to the 
Average transaction fee. Finally, the conclusions are 
presented in Section 5. 
II. PREVIOUS WORK AND MOTIVATION 
There are many supply chain systems that are 
integrated using blockchain namely, a novel 
blockchain-based Product Ownership Management 
System (POMS) and the smart contract- based secured 
business to consumer (B2C) supply chain system. The 
Product Ownership Management System (POMS) 
which is an ethereum-based one, just suggests the fact 
of providing incentives to the supply chain parties to 
make them properly follow the protocol, but it doesn’t 
discuss on the mechanism of providing incentives to 
the supply chain parties [4]. Similarly, the smart 
contract- based secured business to consumer (B2C) 
supply chain system focuses on a blockchain-based 
mechanism for ordering, payment, and shipping of 
products from the seller to the consumer. It doesn’t 
speak about incentive mechanisms that are required to 
transfer rewards to the supply chain parties [5]. There 
are incentive mechanisms that have been designed, to 
preserve the security of Electronic Health Records 
(EHR) systems [7], and for mobile health service 
supply chain [8]. Also, Privacy preserving incentive 
mechanism has been designed for crowd-sensing 
applications [9].  
IEEE - 49239
11th ICCCNT 2020 
July 1-3, 2020 - IIT - Kharagpur, 
Kharagpur, India Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 Blockchain, being a secured digital ledger of 
transactions, which will be programmed to record and 
track not only simple money transactions but it has 
many other use cases. Blockchain-based 
cryptocurrency get a lots and a lots of market 
capitalisation. Therefore, developing a Blockchain 
based incentive mechanism for distributed peer-to-peer 
applications to provide incentive to users for better 
cooperation is indispensable [10]. The blockchain 
technology is employed to make the primary incentive 
mechanism of nodes as per knowledge on storage for 
wireless device networks. During this system process, 
the nodes storing the information are rewarded with 
digital cash [11]. Peer-to-Peer (P2P) systems suffer 
from many sorts of non-contribution that depend upon 
potential cooperative operations of a peer. Since peers 
are typically driven by their self-interest at the expense 
of welfare, incentive mechanisms encourage peers to 
collaborate, at the same time accomplish self-utility and 
welfare [12].  
 Rewarding incentives to users which is 
indispensable in user-oriented networks will encourage 
users to share assets and services so as to avoid 
inconsiderate nodes from hampering the functionality 
of the entire system. Cryptocurrency and name 
mechanisms are adopted in on-line communities to 
spice up participation and trust between the networks 
[13]. All the above mentioned works talk about 
incentive mechanisms in their domain except [4, 5]. 
The POMS [4] speaks that incentives are to be given to 
the supply chain participants, but the incentive 
mechanisms have not yet been discussed. The smart 
contract based secured B2C supply chain system [5] 
doesn’t speak about incentive mechanisms at all. In this 
paper, we have devised an AI- based incentive 
mechanism that makes a fare attempt in rewarding 
incentives to the participants in the supply chain. 
III. PROPOSED WORK 
The traditional methods of supply chain management 
have no means to detect the presence of counterfeited 
products in the supply chain which lowers the influence 
of the manufacturer in the market. In order to detect and 
avoid counterfeits in the supply chain, blockchain 
based supply chain protocols were proposed. But to 
make all the supply chain parties to follow those 
protocols, it is necessary for the manufacturers to give 
them attractive incentives. We have proposed a game 
theory based incentive mechanism which fairly 
distributes incentives to all the parties in the supply 
chain.  
A. Blockchain based supply chain transaction    
To make all the participants in the supply chain to 
follow the blockchain-based supply chain protocols, it 
is necessary for the manufacturer to reward them with 
attractive incentives. The proposed incentive 
mechanism makes use of the co-operative game theory 
and fairly rewards incentives to all the supply chain 
parties. The figure Fig.2 shows a model supply chain 
transaction in POMS [4] which interprets the 
following: (1) Manufacturer issues a transaction for 
shipment of the product to Party 1. (2) Party 1 issues a 
transaction for successfully receiving the product from 
the manufacturer. (3) Manufacturer rewards Party 1 
with incentive after the transaction for receiving the 
product has been successfully issued by Party 1 (4) 
Party 1 issues a transaction for shipment of product to 
Party 2.  (5) Party 2 issues a transaction for successfully 
receiving the product from Party 1. (6) Manufacturer 
rewards Party 2 with incentive after the transaction for 
receiving the product has been successfully issued by 
Party 2.
  
 
 
Fig.2. Blockchain based supply chain transaction model 
 
 
 
 
IEEE - 49239
11th ICCCNT 2020 
July 1-3, 2020 - IIT - Kharagpur, 
Kharagpur, India Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
B. Incentive calculation mechanism  
The manufacturer has the sole responsibility of issuing 
incentive to the remaining parties in the supply chain 
because the blockchain based supply chain protocols 
are mostly benefited to the manufacturers in order to 
avoid the presence of counterfeited products in the 
supply chain. But the implementation of these 
protocols introduces additional overheads to the other 
supply chain parties in terms of the amount they spend 
for mining their transactions. So, it is necessary for the 
manufacturers to provide incentives to the remaining 
supply chain parties. But a transaction has to be mined 
by the manufacturers for providing incentives to the 
remaining supply chain parties which costs the 
manufacturers some ethers. So, an Ethereum-based fair 
incentive calculation policy has been devised that 
satisfies both the manufacturers and the supply chain 
parties.   
 The algorithm for the calculation of incentives is 
presented in Fig.3. To make a fair attempt in the 
calculation of incentives, a game theory-based 
approach has been devised. It is to be noted that the goal 
of all the supply chain parties is the same i.e., to follow 
the blockchain based supply chain protocol. So, co-
operative game theory-based solution has been 
proposed for the fair calculation of incentives. 
Fig.3. Algorithm for incentive calculation 
 In the algorithm, the Average transaction fee ‘A’ 
has been included in place of, the transaction fee 
required to mine the transaction on shipment of 
products by the supply chain parties other than the 
manufacturer, since it is not known at the time of 
calculation of incentive, thereby providing fairness to 
the supply chain parties other than the manufacturer. 
Also, the term ‘M’ has been introduced to provide 
fairness to the manufacturer since the manufacturer 
spends some ethers in mining the transaction for 
providing incentives. So, the terms ‘M’ and ‘A’ in the 
algorithm play a vital role in establishing fairness to the 
manufacturer and the other supply chain parties 
respectively, using the concept of cooperative game 
theory. Assuming one transaction per block, the 
incentive mechanism is mathematically represented as 
follows: 
MRAI  ]2/)[(                                       (1) 
Where, A refers to Average transaction fee, R refers to 
the Transaction fee required for mining the transaction 
on successfully receiving the product, M denotes the 
Transaction fee required to mine the transaction on 
rewarding incentive and I refers to the incentive to be 
rewarded. 
IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS  
The factor ‘A (Average Transaction Fee)’ in equation 
(1) is the varying factor which varies along with time. 
The variation of Average transaction fee with respect 
to time is shown in Fig.4 using the data from [14].  
 
Fig.4. Average Transaction Fee Vs Time 
The proposed algorithm makes a fair attempt in 
rewarding incentives, so that both the manufacturers 
and the other supply chain parties are satisfied. The 
factors ‘R’ and ‘M’ are constants. So, equation (1) is 
integrated with respect to ‘A’. 
dAMRAI ]2/)[(     (2) 
From (2),  
   MdAdARdAAI )2/()2/(   (3) 
From (3), 
AAMRI *]}4/[]2/)*2({[        (4) 
(Since we know that,   Cxxdx )2/( 2
;
  Cxdx ) 
 
IEEE - 49239
11th ICCCNT 2020 
July 1-3, 2020 - IIT - Kharagpur, 
Kharagpur, India Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
From (4), 
AACI *)]4/([                                   (5) 
(Since 2/)]*2([ MR   is replaced by a constant C) 
From (5), 
)4/( 2AAI                                          (6) 
(Assuming 1C ) 
The equation (6) is plotted and shown in Fig.5. 
 
Fig.5. Incentive Vs Average Transaction Fee 
From the Fig.5, we infer that as ‘A’ increases, ‘I’ also 
increases, because from equation (6) it is very clear that 
‘I’ is directly proportional to ‘A’; therefore as the 
Average Transaction Fee increases, the Incentive to be 
rewarded by the manufacturer also increases. The 
varying factor ‘A’ in the equation (6) plays a very 
important role in providing incentives in a fair manner 
because at the time of calculation of incentives by the 
manufacturer, the transaction fee required by the 
supply chain party to mine the transaction for shipping 
the received products to the next supply chain party is 
not known. So, here the manufacturer can’t say that 
since he doesn’t know that amount, he can’t give the 
share for it. So, to avoid this issue, ‘A’ has been 
introduced in the algorithm. Also, manufacturer has to 
spend a fixed amount of ethers to mine the transaction 
for rewarding incentives. That is why ‘M’ has been 
deducted from average calculated in the algorithm 
above. Thus the proposed algorithm establishes 
fairness in rewarding incentives.  
V. CONCLUSION 
In the recent years, the growth of blockchain 
technology and the role played by crypto-currency is 
tremendous. Also, in this day and age, the supply chain 
and its management is important because it increases 
competitiveness and customer satisfaction and forms 
an integral part of a firm’s success. In order to make all 
the participants of the supply chain to accurately follow 
the blockchain-based supply chain protocols, it is 
necessary to reward them with incentives. The method 
of rewarding with incentives will pave the way for a 
sustainable and secured future. The proposed algorithm 
of providing incentives to the supply chain parties by 
the manufacturer has established fairness such that it 
satisfies both the manufacturers and the other supply 
chain parties. Our future works will be related to 
intercepting the repeated cyclic transactions between 
any two supply chain participants for the sake of 
receiving rewards, thereby preventing hindrance to the 
supply chain. 
VI. REFERENCES 
[1] “Deloitte’s 2019 Global Blockchain Survey”, 
Deloitte, 2019 
[2] “The importance of blockchain for India”, livemint, 
2018 
[3] A. Ekİn and D. Ünay, "Blockchain applications in 
healthcare," 2018 26th Signal Processing and 
Communications Applications Conference (SIU), 
Izmir, pp. 1-4, 2018  
[4] K. Toyoda, P. T. Mathiopoulos, I. Sasase and T. 
Ohtsuki, "A Novel Blockchain-Based Product 
Ownership Management System (POMS) for Anti-
Counterfeits in the Post Supply Chain," in IEEE 
Access, vol. 5, pp. 17465-17477, 2017  
[5] F. Qu, H. Haddad and H. Shahriar, "Smart 
Contract-Based Secured Business-to-Consumer 
Supply Chain Systems," 2019 IEEE International 
Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain), Atlanta, GA, 
USA, pp. 580-585, 2019  
[6] Q. Zhang, M. Zhou, C. Li, X. Zheng, K. Wang and 
S. Yang, "Case Analysis on Value Creation and 
Sustainable Development Path of Supply Chain 
Integrators," 2018 15th International Conference on 
Service Systems and Service Management (ICSSSM), 
Hangzhou, pp. 1-6, 2018 
[7] G. Yang and C. Li, "A Design of Blockchain-Based 
Architecture for the Security of Electronic Health 
Record (EHR) Systems," 2018 IEEE International 
Conference on Cloud Computing Technology and 
Science (CloudCom), Nicosia, pp. 261-265, 2018 
[8] H. Zhang and L. Wei, "Incentive Mechanism 
Design of Mobile Health Service Supply Chain under 
Information Asymmetry," 2020 IEEE 7th International 
Conference on Industrial Engineering and 
Applications (ICIEA), Bangkok, Thailand, pp. 474-
478, 2020 
[9] J. Wang, M. Li, Y. He, H. Li, K. Xiao and C. Wang, 
"A Blockchain Based Privacy-Preserving Incentive 
Mechanism in Crowdsensing Applications," in IEEE 
Access, vol. 6, pp. 17545-17556, 2018  
[10] Y. He, H. Li, X. Cheng, Y. Liu, C. Yang and L. 
Sun, "A Blockchain Based Truthful Incentive 
Mechanism for Distributed P2P Applications," in IEEE 
Access, vol. 6, pp. 27324-27335, 2018  
[11] Yuh-Shyan Chen, Yongjun Ren, Yepeng Liu, Sai 
Ji, Arun Kumar Sangaiah, Jin Wang,”Incentive 
Mechanism of Data Storage Based on Blockchain for 
Wireless Sensor Networks”, Mobile Information 
Systems, Hindawi, Volume 2018, sp.6874158, 2018 
IEEE - 49239
11th ICCCNT 2020 
July 1-3, 2020 - IIT - Kharagpur, 
Kharagpur, India Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
[12] Fatima Lamia Haddi, Mahfoud Benchaïba,”A 
survey of incentive mechanisms in static and mobile 
p2p systems”, Journal of Network and Computer 
Applications, ScienceDirect, vol. 58, pp. 108 – 118, 
2015 
[13] A. Bogliolo et al., "Virtual currency and 
reputation-based cooperation incentives in user-centric 
networks," 2012 8th International Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing Conference 
(IWCMC), Limassol, pp. 895-900, 2012 
[14]https://blockchair.com/ethereum/charts/average-
transaction-fee-eth-   Average Transaction Fee Chart 
 .
 
 
IEEE - 49239
11th ICCCNT 2020 
July 1-3, 2020 - IIT - Kharagpur, 
Kharagpur, India Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:33:54 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.