Predictive-Free Methods for Digital Financial Asset Management and Delayed Functional-Differential Economic Game Models
XXX-X-XXXX-XXXX-X/XX/$XX.00 ©20XX IEEE 
Predictive-Free Methods for Digital Financial Asset 
Management and Delayed Functional-Differential 
Economic Game Models 
 
Alexander Proskuryakov 
Departement of Electronics and 
computer Science 
«Vladimir State University named after 
Alexander and Nicholay Stoletovs» 
Murom, Russia 
alexander.prosk.murom@gmail.com 
Dmitry Beylekchi 
Departement of Electronics and 
computer Science 
«Vladimir State University named after 
Alexander and Nicholay Stoletovs» 
Murom, Russia 
dmib80@gmail.com 
Saygid Uvaisov 
Departament of Design and Production 
of Radioelectronic Equipment 
Russian Technological University: 
Moscow, Russia 
uvajsov@mirea.ru 
 
Abstract—The Federal Law dated 31.07.2020 N 259-FZ 
"On Digital Financial Assets, Digital Currency and on 
Amendments to Certain Legislative Acts of the Russian 
Federation" entered into force on January 1, 2021. The law 
defines the legal status and procedure for the circulation of 
cryptocurrencies. Given the increasing interest from investors, 
the specific nature and growth of the digital assets market, new 
effective management tools and methods are required, which 
are proposed in the paper. 
The paper constructs two models of economic processes 
described by functional-differential equations, i.e. delayed 
equations generalizing the Verhulst equation. The first model 
represents the process in the model of an isolated economic 
center of forces functioning under external disturbing 
influences. The second model characterizes processes in two 
centers interacting through information and financial fields. 
Both models belong, in fact, to the class of open systems, 
systems interacting with the external environment. It is noted 
that they can be combined with the models developed within 
the analogy of economic and open thermodynamic systems. 
The analysis of uncertainty problems, the problems of 
uncertainty of laws of economics and parameters of models of 
processes, and the analysis of the ways to overcome them are 
given. The possibilities of the digital economy and the dangers 
associated with it are discussed. 
Keywords—functional-differential equation, static model, 
dynamic model, economic center of power, digital economy, 
mathematical methods of economy, information technology, 
digital financial assets, block chain 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Managing decisions in the crypto currency market under 
uncertainty and risk requires hybrid approaches and methods 
combined for effective monitoring, forecasting and 
management [1]. The high risk and volatility of digital 
financial assets arise from the lack of regulation, the 
presence of reliable value exchange channels with fiat 
currencies, a high degree of speculative components, and 
ambiguous legislative interpretation in different countries 
and continents. In this case, the application of traditional 
asset management schemes and models in relation to 
cryptocurrencies becomes a difficult and inefficient solution. 
There is a need to create no-forecast management models as 
a mathematical basis for stable hedging risks and preserving 
the purchasing power of the asset in case of unpredictable 
hypervolatile bursts of value. The concept of such a system 
can be represented by the diagram in Fig. 1, which illustrates 
a combined digital financial asset management model. 
Digital Financial aAssets
cryptocurrencies
Automated Trading
Control system
Assets Trade orders
Market
External Environment operator
stock quotes
control parameters
result monitoring
data flow - market changes, state of assets  
Fig. 1. Digital financial asset management model. 
In the cryptocurrency sector in asset management, there 
can be predictive and non-predictive methods of decision-
making. To implement the first approach, the analysis of 
time series [2] with preliminary smoothing, optimization and 
appeal to the methods of the surge theory and fuzzy systems 
are proposed. In the prediction-free methods, the control 
decisions are made according to the trend, which is realized 
on the basis of the developed algorithms. This guarantees 
increased stability of the system and reduces risk in 
uncertainty, but may require more time to complete trading 
cycles. 
As an alternative or supplement to the no-forecast 
approach, a number of forecast models based on 
approximating polynomials, statistical evaluation, neural 
network forecasting of time series and technical-economic 
analysis [3] are offered. 
II. FUNCTIONAL-DIFFERENTIAL PREDICTIVE MODELS OF 
ECONOMIC GAMES WITH LAGGING 
The problem of uncertainty has always been a problem of 
economic science - a problem of modeling economic 
processes. This problem is determined by the very nature of 
the modeled object, which according to N.N. Moiseev is an 
organized community of thinking living beings [4] with all 
its interrelations, merits and demerits. In these conditions 
even an ideally adjusted model is difficult to use in practice 
because, as a rule, its parameters are not known. This was 
noted by both N.N. Moiseev and V. Leontiev [5, 6]. The 
authors of these works noted in this connection, in particular, 
that the most complete description of the capitalist form of 
production is given not by the modeling with uncertain 
parameters, but by Marx's "Capital". Another interesting 
pattern observed by J. Muth is that "all available information, 
which can increase the accuracy of price forecasts, is very 
quickly transformed into the current decisions of 
speculators". This pattern is cited in a review of the 
development of economic science [7]. 
20
21
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 In
fo
rm
at
io
n 
Te
ch
no
lo
gy
 a
nd
 N
an
ot
ec
hn
ol
og
y 
(I
TN
T)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-3
21
7-
7/
21
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
21
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IT
N
T5
24
50
.2
02
1.
96
49
43
3
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:56:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
The complexity of the problem of uncertainty in modern 
conditions seems to increase in connection with the 
development of digital technology [8], with the uncertainty 
of the rules of circulation, both traditional and digital 
currency; with the uncertainty of the rules of access to 
economic information and, naturally, with the possibility of 
uncontrolled influences on the processes taking place in the 
economy. The question arises as to the reliability of 
measures taken to combat computer crime, the growth of 
which has already been noted at the official level. In this 
case, the reference to the economic illiteracy of the victims is 
not justified by the heterogeneity of the population's 
interests, by virtue of the impossibility of demanding, for 
example, from a mathematician or physicist, knowledge of 
all the subtleties of possible mechanisms of deception. In 
principle, digital technology can free them from this 
obligation, allowing them to concentrate entirely on the tasks 
at hand. However, this is only theoretical. 
There is also the danger of growing opportunities to 
manipulate economic processes on the part of influential 
groups of government officials, leading to a detachment of 
the economy from the scientific and technical needs of the 
state, to slow development and, even, to the suspension and 
collapse of the country's backbone industries, which has 
already taken place. We should also mention the emergence 
of new opportunities for the formation of financial pyramids 
and the withdrawal, possibly for benign purposes, of the 
accumulated surpluses from the population, which was 
previously practiced in the form of bonds. 
According to the realized principles of functioning, 
models of economic development processes are divided into 
processes: static and dynamic, deterministic and stochastic, 
linear and nonlinear, continuous and discrete, optimal and 
playful. The discussion of the practical application of 
stochastic models is devoted to [9], modeling and 
interpretation of the economic consequences of catastrophic 
climate change is the topic of [10]. Modern economic growth 
theory and common mathematical models of economics are 
the topic of books [11, 12]. The theory and practice of 
economic models is a topic of work [13]. The ideas of 
differential game theory [14] apply in principle to game 
models of economics. Methods of time series analysis, 
stochastic approximation, recurrence estimation and decision 
making [15-17] also belong to the mathematical apparatus of 
economic analysis and modeling. Modeling of reversible and 
irreversible, closed and open economic and thermodynamic 
systems is covered in [18-24]. 
Economic games are essentially wars waged from the 
centers of power for power and influence, capital and 
prestige; wars in which there is no shame in spreading 
inaccurate information, irresponsibility and lies. 
Such a state of social relations naturally increases both 
the uncertainty of factors of economic development and the 
uncertainty of the model; in some cases, there is a need to 
take into account new factors and, accordingly, to modify the 
model. At the same time, it is obvious that the causes of the 
uncertainty problem noted in [5, 6] remain valid under the 
new conditions. Despite the uncertainty, the modeling of 
economic processes is of undoubted interest both in terms of 
the analysis of the causes that generate them, in terms of 
their prediction at the stationarity intervals, and in terms of 
discovering the causes of abrupt changes in their dynamics. 
This paper introduces into consideration the functional-
differential equations modeling economic games in 
conditions of competing centers of power, when decisions 
are made on the prior (lagging) or unreliable information 
about the values of any economic factors, and in conditions 
of their considerable variability. Such a mechanism 
underlies, for example, many known fraudulent schemes. 
The upside-down game, which is the subject of Emile Zola's 
"Rugon-Macquarie" cycle, can be referred to the same type. 
A. Model of growth in demand for a foundation product 
Let us consider the problem of growth of demand for a 
product under the conditions of finite time of its production, 
cost and limited initial value of the fund. Similar problems, 
such as the population growth rate and the rate of production 
of products with saturation (parameter )(tx ), are modeled in 
many cases by the Verhulst equation [12]: 
( ) )()(1
)(
txtbxa
dt
tdx
−=
 
where a  and −b  appropriate coefficients. However, here 
we do not take into account either the lag, which in the 
general case may have a distributed nature, or the costs of 
stimulating, for example, advertising costs, or the saturation 
of the market of this type of product. 
Under these conditions, the price of the product in the 
first approximation can be represented by a system of 
equations of the general form 
( ) )()Φ(),(),(()(1
)(
tPttMtJftbPa
dt
tdP
−= , 
( ))(),(Φ),(),()( tMttJtPtJ = , 
( ))(),(),()( tMtJtPtM = , 
where −)(tP  the volume or flow of output, −)(tJ  
information, incentive support, −)(tM  the flow of 
consumption or market saturation, −)(Φ t  fixed assets, 
)(tf , )(t  and −)(t  accordingly selected functions. 
The peculiarity of informational, stimulating support, 
consisting in the tendency to distort or delay information 
about the actual state of the economic system requires the 
transition to a functional-differential model in the general 
case with a distributed delay, within which the first of the 
above equations can be presented, for example, in the form 
of 
)())(),(Φ),(()()()(1
)(
0
tPtMttJfdwtPtPba
dt
tdP
h
















++−= 
−

where −)(w  is a non-negative weight function. 
Of course, these equations are only the simplest model of 
the economic game, the model of enrichment or ruin of only 
one center of power. It does not explicitly model the 
mechanism of competition between representatives of 
different centers of power, does not reveal the interaction of 
competing subjects. The game in the framework of this 
model is reduced to a struggle for supremacy in the 
information field, the victory in which actually solves the 
problem of competition. In a similar way, for the same 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:56:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
purpose - to displace the rival, victory can also be achieved 
by playing in the financial field. 
The disadvantage of this model is that there is no explicit 
connection between the output of the same type of products 
by different centers of power. To eliminate this drawback we 
can, for example, introduce a model of competition between 
two centers of power, a model described by a system of 
differential equations with a lag: 
)())(),(Φ),(()()()(1
)(
1111
0
11
1 tPtMttJfdwtPtPba
dt
tdP
h
















++−= 
−
  
)())(),(Φ),(()()()(1
)(
2222
0
22
2 tPtMttJfdwtPtPba
dt
tdP
h
















++−= 
−
  
( ))(),(Φ(t),),()( 222211 tMtJtPtJ = , 
( ))(),(Φ(t),),()( 111122 tMtJtPtJ = , 
( ))(),(Φ(t),),()( 222211 tMtJtPtM = , 
( ))(),(Φ(t),),()( 111122 tMtJtPtM = , 
where the lower indices 1 and 2 denote the variables and 
functions of the first and second centers of force, 
respectively.  
It is not difficult to generalize the above model to the 
case of more centers of force if only to give the equations a 
vector-matrix form. However, in some cases this is not 
necessary due to the frequent consolidation of the interests of 
the centers of forces around two or three selected strongest 
centers. The functional dependences represented by the 
functions )(tfk , )(tk  and )(tk , depend on the 
peculiarities of the set tasks and goals, by virtue of which 
they can be described by different expressions. 
A distinctive feature of the equations of this model, 
obtained by modifying the Verhulst equation to the form of 
equations with distributed delay, is the presence of many 
possible types of dynamics of the processes they form: from 
stationary state to relaxational and chaotic auto-oscillations, 
which is of some interest also in terms of representation of 
the dynamics of economic processes. The topic of 
investigation of processes within the framework of specific 
economic problems deserves a separate consideration. 
III. CONCLUSION 
Mathematical modeling of the dynamics of processes in 
the economy is of interest perhaps not so much for the 
purpose of long-term forecasting as for the purpose of 
identifying the conditions of critical situations and preparing 
for their elimination. Various algebraic conditions of 
resources production and consumption balance, models of 
employment and scientific and technological progress; 
economics-related tasks of demography and sociology, 
single-sector models of economy, tasks of growth and 
identification of stock markets and productions, tasks of 
forecasting growth of one or another resource are covered 
quite fully in the literature on economics. A separate place is 
occupied by the issues of security and control in the digital 
economy, which seem to play and will play, undoubtedly, a 
significant role in the future. 
Dynamic models occupy a more modest place. Here 
simplified models are mostly used, allowing only a 
qualitative assessment of observed processes, but, 
nevertheless, making appropriate recommendations. As the 
model becomes more complex, as noted above, the 
parametric problem of uncertainty arises, which, in principle, 
is solvable within the framework of the identification 
problem. 
In its essence, the economy is an open system - a system 
under constant influence of external factors of sociological, 
natural, environmental, demographic, industrial, scientific 
and technological and other types. To take into account the 
influence of all these factors on the economy, and even more 
so to predict, is not a theoretically feasible task. 
Nevertheless, this does not mean abandoning the study of 
complex economic processes, just as one does not abandon 
weather forecasting in conditions of its obvious 
unpredictability even for a relatively short period of time. 
As an open system, the economy has many analogies 
with nonequilibrium thermodynamics, considered from this 
perspective in papers [18-24]. This way, based on the 
combination of the laws of thermodynamics and economics, 
of both static and dynamic type, with the algorithms of 
systems identification, seems to be the most promising today. 
The complex dynamics of the processes observed in the 
presented models of economics, in particular, in the form of 
relaxation oscillations, has been confirmed by unpublished 
results of modeling of this type of equations. 
This study considers a number of predictive models [25, 
26] based on approximating polynomials, statistical 
estimation, neural network forecasting of time series and 
technical-economic analysis. Applying the mentioned 
models and solutions in particular or in complex, it is 
possible to make adaptive adjustment of parameters of the 
automated cryptocurrency management system built on the 
forecast-free model. Depending on market conditions, 
volatility and risks, the priority of the proposed models 
allows to choose a more effective solution for different 
phases of the market. 
The results of the technical and economic analysis 
performed as part of the study are shown in Fig. 2. 
 
Fig. 2. Results of technical and economic analysis of bitcoin value 
prediction. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:56:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Based on the results of the technical and economic 
analysis in Fig. 2 (The chart is not a trading 
recommendation), it is possible to adapt the digital financial 
asset management system to the relevant market conditions. 
Follow the recommendations from the predictive models 
[25], the automated management system performs asset 
management through trade orders. 
Thus, by supplementing the no-forecast approaches with 
forecasting tools, effective risk-controlled asset management 
of the digital economy becomes possible. The introduction of 
crypto-asset management systems and the reservation of a 
portfolio of highly liquid digital assets can increase the state's 
resilience to geopolitical and currency risks, as well as 
strengthen the sovereign wealth fund. 
REFERENCES 
[1] A. Y. Proskuryakov, Y. A. Kropotov, A. A. Belov, and V. A. 
Ermolaev, “Sposob nejrosetevogo prognozirovaniya izmeneniya 
znachenij funkcii c eyo predvaritel'noj vejvlet-obrabotkoj i ustrojstvo 
ego osushchestvleniya [Method of neural network forecasting of 
function values with its prior wavelet processing and its 
implementation device],” 2016. Patent No. 2600099 RU, Registered in 
the State Register of Inventions of the Russian Federation on September 
22, 2016 (in Russian). 
[2] A. Y. Proskuryakov, Y. A. Kropotov, ”Forecasting the change in the 
parameters of time series and continuous functions,” Procedia 
Engineering, volume 201, 2017, pp. 789-800. 
URL:https://doi.org/10.1016/j.proeng.2017.09.628. 
[3] Robert R. Prechter, The Socionomic Theory of Finance, Socionomics 
Institute Press, 2016. 
[4] N. N. Moiseev, Matematicheskie zadachi sistemnogo analiza 
[Mathematical problems of systems analysis], Nauka Publ., Moscow, 
1981 (in Russian). 
[5] N. N. Moiseev, Prostejshie matematicheskie zadachi 
ekonomicheskogo prognozirovaniya [The simplest mathematical 
problems of economic forecasting], Znanie Publ., Moscow, 1975 (in 
Russian). 
[6] V. Leont'ev, Ekonomicheskie esse. Teorii, issledovaniya, fakty i 
politika [Economic Essays. Theories, Studies, Facts and Politics], 
Politizdat Publ., Moscow, 1990 (in Russian). 
[7] A. V. Voroncovskij, A. L. Dmitriev, “Modelirovanie 
ekonomicheskogo rosta s uchetom neopredelennosti 
makroekonomicheskih faktorov: istoricheskij obzor problemy i 
perspektivy razvitiya [Modelling economic growth with 
macroeconomic uncertainties: a historical overview of the problem 
and prospects for development],” volume 5, Vestnik SPbGU, St. 
Petersburg, 2014, pp. 5-31 (in Russian). 
[8] V.V. Romashov, K.A. Yakimenko, A.N. Doktorov, “Low-noise 
hybrid frequency synthesizers for 5G technology,” Journal of 
Physics: Conference Series International Scientific Conference 
"Conference on Applied Physics, Information Technologies and 
Engineering - APITECH-2019", Polytechnical Institute of Siberian 
Federal University, 2019, pp. 22-25. doi:10.1088/1742-
6596/1399/2/022025. 
[9] O. A. Demidova, D. S. Ivanov, “Modeli ekonomicheskogo rosta s 
neodnorodnymi prostranstvennymi effektami (na primere rossijskih 
regionov) [Models of economic growth with heterogeneous spatial 
effects (the example of Russian regions)]”, volume 20, no.1, HSE 
Journal of Economics, 2016, pp. 52-75 (in Russian). 
[10] M.L. Weitzman, “On modeling and interpreting the economics of 
catastrophic climate change,” The Review of Economics and 
Statistics, volume 91,no.1, 2009, pp. 1-19. 
[11] D. Asemoglu, Introduction to modern economics growth, Princeton 
University Press, Princeton, 2009. 
[12] A. M. Ahtyamov, “Matematicheskie modeli ekonomicheskih 
processov [Mathematical models of economic processes],” BashSU 
Publ., Ufa, 2009 (in Russian). 
[13] D. L. Andrianov (Ed.), “Dinamicheskie modeli ekonomiki: teoriya, 
prilozheniya, pro-grammnaya realizaciya [Dynamic models of the 
economy: theory, applications, software implementation],” Bulletin 
of Perm University, volume «Economics», no. 4, 2015, pp. 8-32 (in 
Russian). 
[14] R. Ajzeks, Differencial'nye igry [Differential games], Mir Publ., 
Moscow, 1968 (in Russian). 
[15] R. S. Tsay, Analysis of financial time series, John Wiley & Sons, 
Hoboken, New Jersey, 2010. 
[16] M. B. Nevel'son, R. Z. Has'minskij, Stohasticheskaya 
approksimaciya i rekurrentnoe ocenivanie [Stochastic approximation 
and recurrent estimation], Mir Publ., Moscow, 1972 (in Russian).  
[17] A. N. Shiryaev, “Veroyatnostno-statisticheskie metody v teorii 
prinyatiya reshenij [Probabilistic-statistical methods in decision-
making theory],” FMOP MCNMO, Moscow, 2011 (in Russian). 
[18] A. M. Cirlin, “Optimal'noe upravlenie obmenom resursami v 
ekonomicheskih sistemah [Optimal management of resource 
exchange in economic systems],” Automation and telemechanics, 
no. 3, 1995, pp. 116-126 (in Russian). 
[19] A. M. Cirlin, “Optimal'nye processy i upravlenie v neobratimoj 
mikroekonomike [Optimal processes and control in irreversible 
microeconomics],” Automation and telemechanics, no. 5, 2001, 
pp. 159-170 (in Russian). 
[20] A. M. Cirlin, “Ekstremal'nye principy i predel'nye vozmozhnosti 
otkrytyh termodinamicheskih i ekonomicheskih mikrosistem 
[Extreme principles and limits of open thermodynamic and 
economic microsystems],” Automation and telemechanics, no. 3, 
2005, pp. 121-138 (in Russian). 
[21] A. M. Cirlin, ”Optimal'nye processy v otkrytyh upravlyaemyh 
makrosistemah [Optimal processes in open controlled 
macrosystems],” Automation and telemechanics, no. 1, 2006, 
pp. 146-161 (in Russian). 
[22] A. M. Cirlin, ”Neobratimaya mikroekonomika: optimal'nye processy 
i ravnovesie v zamknutyh sistemah [Irreversible microeconomics: 
optimal processes and equilibrium in closed systems],” Automation 
and telemechanics, no. 7, 2008, pp. 113-128 (in Russian). 
[23] A. M. Cirlin, ”Metody optimizacii v neobratimoj termodinamiki i 
mikroekonomike [Optimization methods in irreversible 
thermodynamics and microeconomics],” PhysMathLit Publ., 
Moscow, 2003 (in Russian). 
[24] Yu. A. Polunin, “Sintez metodov nelinejnoj dinamiki i 
regressionnogo analiza dlya issledovaniya social'no-ekonomicheskih 
processov [Synthesis of nonlinear dynamics methods and regression 
analysis for the study of socio-economic processes],” Problems of 
Management, no.1, 2019, pp. 32-44 (in Russian). 
[25] Y. A. Kropotov, A. Y. Proskuryakov, A.A. Belov, “Method for 
forecasting changes in time series parameters in digital information 
management systems,” Computer Optics, no. 42 (6), 2018, pp. 1093-
1100. doi: 10.18287/2412-6179-2018-42-6-1093-1100. 
[26] V. A. Ermolaev, Y. A. Kropotov, A. Y. Proskuryakov, 
“Identification of the acoustic signal models of audio exchange 
systems under conditions of interference and acoustic feedback,” 
Computer Optics, no. 44(3), 2020, pp. 454-465. doi: 10.18287/2412-
6179-CO-655. 
[27] Russian Federal Law N 259-FZ dated 31.07.2020 "On Digital 
Financial Assets, Digital Currency and on Amendments to Certain 
Legislative Acts of the Russian Federation" (in Russian). 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:56:34 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.