Block-chain Implementation of Letter of Credit based Trading system in Supply Chain Domain
1 
Block-chain Implementation of Letter of Credit based 
Trading system in Supply Chain Domain 
Rajashekaragouda G S,  
M Dakshayini, Dept of ISE, 
B.M.S. College of Engg., Bengaluru, Affiliated to V.T.U Belagavi. 
S Balaji, Centre for Incubation, Innovation, Research and Consultancy, 
Jyothy Institute of Technology, Tataguni, Off Kanakapura Road, Bengaluru-560082 
Abstract— On a global scale, Supply-Chain 
Management(SCM) is a network of amenities that 
runs through different processes involving 
procurement of raw materials, storage and movement 
of these materials and converting them into products 
to the distribution of final products to consumers. All 
these seems simple in theory, practically efficient 
management of such a system is challenging. In order 
to resolve and overcome these inefficiencies and save 
Organization’s money, various technologies are being 
used. Amongst these, blockchain is reconnoitering new 
ways to change the overall game. This work proposes 
a BlockChain based revolutionary Supply-chain 
system addressing the deficiencies that the traditional 
system could not address in its entirety. The proposed 
Blockchain system achieves transparent record 
keeping  and provenance tracking with reduced cost 
using a distributed, immutable and highly reliable 
ledger concept that records the history of products 
right from its origination to its buyer without the need 
of a third trusted party. This work is implemented 
using Hyperledger fabric and proves the efficiency of 
the proposed system. 
Index Terms: Supply chain Management, Smart 
Contract, Blockchain technology, Hyperledger Fabric, 
Permissioned network, trading, letter of Credit. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
International trade includes the kinds of situations 
that illustrate the inefficiencies and distrust in real world. 
The dangers involved with exchanging commodities or 
making purchases in the absence of a trustworthy 
mediator motivated bank participation and contributed to 
the development of the idea of "cash letter and lading 
bill". A consequence of these processes was not just 
additional cost (banks charge commission to issue letters 
of credit) or additional overhead. Applying and waiting 
for export licenses to be awarded also increases the 
turnaround time.  
The dangers inherent in the transport of products 
or payments in the absence of guarantees (like a 
trustworthy middleman) inspired banks' intervention and 
contributed to the development of credit letter(LoC) and 
lading bill(BoL) principles. An effect of these processes 
was not just the additional cost (banks charges the 
commission to issue LoC or additional overhead. 
Applying and waiting for licenses for export(LoE) to be 
issued also increases the turn-around time. In a scenario 
of ideal trading system, the process of communicating and 
shipment of the goods itself takes time. Recently, the 
implementation of SWIFT messaging with manual 
communication has made the collection processes and 
document application more effective, but it has not 
essentially changed the system.  
By comparison, a blockchain with its (almost) 
prompt transaction responsibilities and assured 
assurances opens up opportunity that was not previously 
present. Through bringing all parties in a global 
blockchain trading arrangement enforcing a specific 
smart contract, we will have a clear mutual basis of reality 
that can reduce vulnerability and at the same time improve 
transparency and that is applied utilizing the Composer 
platform's Hyperledger Fabric. 
For example, the simple solution we added in our 
use case was payment by increments which can not be 
applied in the legacy system as there is no assured way to 
learn and exchange details about the status of a shipment. 
In this situation, such a deviation will be considered too 
dangerous, which is why rewards are strictly related to 
historical evidence. 
Hyperledger Fabric framework is an distributed 
ledger technology of blockchain which is used to establish 
the permissioned network such that access control to 
network is governed by the Certification Authority and 
there by providing the privacy concerns to the participants 
of the network. 
The rest of the paper is arranged according to the 
following manner. Section ii outlines the Literature 
survey in detail. In Section iv details have been 
demonstrated that, how the proposed model is 
implemented on the Hyperledger Fabric and Composer 
platforms. Section v displays the analysis, and section vi 
finishes the paper.  
II. LITERATURE SURVEY
Massimo Vecchio, Miguel Pincheira Caro, Raffaele 
Giaffreda and Muhammad Salek Ali [1] Proposed A 
practical implementation approach of traceability in Agri-
Food supply chain management  using AgriBlockIoT and 
Blockchain that is a completely decentralized and 
blockchain-based traceability solution for Agriculture-
Food supply chain system, enable to continuously 
assimilate IoT devices generating and consuming lot of 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Mainstreaming Block Chain Implementation (ICOMBI) 2020
978-93-5406-901-7 © 2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:43:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2 
digital data along the chain. In this paper, they proved the 
traceability of information by ethereum blockchain 
implementation. 
Abdelali El Bouchti, Houssine Bouayad and Youness 
Tribis [2] proposed a Paper on A Systematic Mapping 
Study of Management of Supply Chain using Blockchain. 
Their effort was aims to analyze and explore the state-of 
the-art on the BlockChain Technology applications for 
Supply Chain Management. They have tried to identify the 
gaps available in SCMs by blending the existing and 
available evidence. 
Dimosthenis Anagnostopoulos, Theodora Varvarigou, 
Antonios Litke [3] Proposed, a detailed analysis of the fit 
of blockchain in the industry of Supply Chain. This paper 
emphasize focus on the important blockchain elements 
that will affect supply chain such as performance, 
scalability, privacy considerations, consensus mechanism, 
cost and location proof, and details on the blockchain in 
exploring the supply chain industry. 
Balaji Prabhu, et.al.[4] has also worked on making the 
trading system of agriculture more transparent from 
farmer to consumer by avoiding the middleman.  
The study made reveals that, many authors have proposed 
the secure trading system using block chain technology. 
No work has been done on the concept of letter of 
Credit(L/C).  Proposed model in this article attempts to 
ensure the trust, transparency, traceability in trading with 
the idea of letter of credit process of Supply chain model 
by blockchain implementation that is designed for 
deploying a modular and permissioned architecture in 
Supply Chain Management. The results of the study 
indicates that Hyperledger Fabric Permissioned network 
provide more security than the public ethereum 
implementation. Hence, Hyperledger Fabric is used to 
create the required network. 
III. PROPOSED METHODOLOGY AND TPF-SCM
MODEL 
3.1. Objective: 
The key objective of this research is to develop a 
framework that promotes logistics traceability and 
consistency that can automate market transactions and 
business relationships through robustly protected import 
and export scenarios in global business networks by letter 
from the credit system without depending on third parties 
in the supply chain model. 
3.2. LoC based SCM model: 
The Supply Chain Management model 
considered here consists of the import export scenario that 
will describe the simple transaction the sale of goods from 
one party to another. In this transaction, the value of 
block-chain has been demonstrated in facilitating this 
transparent and secure trade. A payment promise is made 
by the bank of importer to exported bank in two 
installments. The exporter obtains a clearance certificate 
from the regulatory authority, hands off the goods to the 
carrier, and then obtains a receipt. The production of the 
receipt triggers the first payment installment from the 
bank of importer to the bank of exporter. When the 
shipment has reached the destination port, the second and 
final payment installments are made, and the process 
concludes. 
3.3. LoC-SCM Architecture and the algorithm: 
The proposed LoC based SCM system is well shown and 
explained from the workflow diagram given in Fig 1. 
Fig 1. : Secure, transparent and cost effective SCM model proposed 
The following are the terms used to refer to 
certain tools and artefacts plays in the trading scenario 
considered here. The application developed uses these 
tools: 
 Importer- is the one who requests for the good/product
from exporter and pays for the same
 Exporter- is the party who supplies the requested
good/product to the importer for a specific amount
 Bank of Importer- It supplies an LoC in favour of the
exporter as requested by its client i.e Importer.
 Bank of Exporter- It accepts an LoC on behalf of the
exporter.
 Regulatory Authority- It issues LfE as an authorization
for the shipping of the specific products in the nation
of the exporter.
 Carrier- is the one, which issues BoL document to
exporter once it takes possession of the shipment.
 Letter Credit - this applies to a pledge to pay by a
bank's promise to pay an exporter upon presentation of
documentary proof of goods having been shipped.
Called Letter of credit, this document is issued by the
bank of importer at the request of its customer: the
importer The LoC states the list of documents that
constitute proof of shipment, the amount to be paid,
and the beneficiary (the exporter in this case) of that
amount.
Proceedings of the International Conference on Mainstreaming Block Chain Implementation (ICOMBI) 2020
978-93-5406-901-7 © 2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:43:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3 
 License for Export (LE): This refers to the approval
given by the regulatory authority in the exporter's
country for the shipment of the specified goods.
 BillofLading(BoL): This is a document issued to the
exporter by the carrier once the shipment is in
possession. It simultaneously serves as a receipt, a
contract obliging the carrier to transport the goods to a
specified destination in return for a fee, and a title of
ownership of the goods. This document is also listed in
the L-C and serves as proof of shipment that will
automatically trigger a payment clearance.
The sequences of transactions made in the 
proposed blockchain network among the above mentioned 
parties are described in the following steps and illustrated 
in the fig 1. Such transactions are done in an irrevocable 
and unrepudiable manner. In this chain of events, we 
presume a simple linear story in which the parties 
negotiate with each other and nothing untoward occurs, 
guards are created in the process just to capture errors. 
Algorithm: The transactions made among the parties of 
the system to achieve LoC based SCM 
1. Importer requests the exporter for the goods in return
of money.
2. Exporter commits to the deal.
3. Importer asks his bank for an Exporter LoC.
4. The bank of the importer issues an LoC  for the
exporter which is payable to bank of latter.
5. Bank of Exporter accepts the LoC on the exporter’s
behalf.
6. Exporter is seeking from the regulatory authority for
an export licence(EL).
7. Regulatory authority shall provide the exporter with
an EL.
8. Exporter packs and passes the shipment to the
carrier.
9. a. All the products are approved once the carrier
validates an EL and then
b. Provides an exporter with BoL.
10. The bank of exporter demands ½ payment from the
bank of Importer.
11. The bank of the Importer passes half the sum to the
Bank of exporter.
12. The carrier sends the produc towars their target
destination.
13. The bank of the Importer charges the residual
balance to the Bank of Exporter.
IV. EXPERIMENTATION PERFORMANCE
EVALUATION 
In order to make the present trading system in the supply 
chain domain more transparent, secure and cost effective, 
we have proposed and implemented the trading system 
using Hyperledger fabric for creating the permissioned 
Block chain network. This network consists of four 
organizations representing respectively the importer, 
exporter, carrier and regulator. The other two 
respectively reflect regulator and carrier agencies. The 
organisation of the exporter includes both the exporting 
agency and their branch. The importer department, 
however, involves the importing agency and its bank. 
Then integrating the organizations with the groups they 
support in a single entity makes sense from both a 
protection and a cost perspective. 
Only the network agency obtains access to send 
transactions or reads the ledger state in the position of a 
customer from its organizations. In each of the four 
organisations aside from peers, our network comprises of 
one MSP, which involves an ordering process operating 
in solo mode. In relation to MSP an Order, operation 
belongs separately to its own independent entity. 
Design of network:  
Figure 2: A blockchain network in their specific 
organizations with an orderer, a peer and clients. 
V. EXPERIMENTATION RESULTS 
This proposed work experimented with the following 
scenario. Alice wanted to buy computers from Bob, and 
used the letter of credit process to facilitate this 
transaction. She bought goods in dollars, but was charged 
in Euros. She was able to be confident that the goods met 
her terms and conditions before she paid for them. Bob 
sold computers to Alice, as an overseas customer he has 
no idea about the type of currency with which transaction 
is done. The letter of credit process allowed him to be 
confident that he would receive payment for his goods in 
his local currency, US dollars, as long as Alice was happy 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Mainstreaming Block Chain Implementation (ICOMBI) 2020
978-93-5406-901-7 © 2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:43:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4 
with the goods. Matias and Ella, representatives of Dinero 
Bank and Eastwood Bank respectively, provide a system 
that allowed Alice and Bob to trust that each would fulfill 
mutually agreeable conditions in order to receive 
payment. They were able to charge Alice and Bob a fair 
price for their services. They were aware in real-time of 
every step in the business process. 
The Transaction steps for the Letter of Credit Process are 
as follows. 
Step 1: Preparing to request a letter of credit. 
Step 2: Requesting a letter of credit. 
Step 3: Importing the bank approval. And accepting the 
same. 
Step 4: Exporting the bank’s approval. 
Step 5: Letter received by exporter. 
Step 6: Shipment. 
Step 7: Good’s received. 
Step 8: Payment 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Mainstreaming Block Chain Implementation (ICOMBI) 2020
978-93-5406-901-7 © 2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:43:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
5 
Step 9: Closing the letter. 
Step 10: Bob receives the payment. 
V. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, by using the Hyperledger Fabric of 
Blockchain technology built a Trading and Letter of credit 
process System that has implied trust. This trust system 
leads to reduced risks and various applied technology 
constructs such as a cryptography, encryption, smart 
contract and consensus essentially create gates to not only 
reduce risks, but also infuse added security in the Supply 
chain system.  
REFERENCES 
[1] Massimo Vecchio, Miguel Pincheira Caro, Raffaele 
Giaffreda and Muhammad Salek Ali “A practical 
implementation: Blockchain-based traceability in 
Agriculture-Food supply chain management” 
Proceedings of the  International Conference on IoT 
Verticalaand topical Summit on Agriculture Tuscany, 
Italy, 8-9 May, 2018. 
[2] Abdelali El Bouchti, Houssine Bouayad and Youness 
Tribis “A Systematic Mapping Study on Supply Chain 
Management based on Blockchain” International 
workshop on Transportation and supply chain-2018.  
[3] Dimosthenis Anagnostopoulos, Theodora 
Varvarigou, Antonios Litke “Architectural Elements 
and Challenges Towards a Global Scale Deployment: 
Blockchains for Supply Chain Management” 
Multidisciplinary Digital Publishing Institute 
(MDPI), Jan-2019. 
[4] M Dakshayini, Balaji Prabhu B V, “An Effective Big-
Data and Blockchain [BD-BC] based decision support 
model for Sustainable Agriculture system”, published 
as chapter 8 in Springer Sustainable Cognitive 
Computing, EAI/Springer Innovations in 
Communication book Series, pp 77-86, 
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-19562-5_8 
[5] Luc Desrosiers, Nitin Gaur,  Venkatraman 
Ramakrishna, Petr Novotny ‘Hands-On Blockchain 
with Hyperledger’ 
[6] https://www.ibm.com/blockchain/industries/supply-
chain. 
Proceedings of the International Conference on Mainstreaming Block Chain Implementation (ICOMBI) 2020
978-93-5406-901-7 © 2020 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:43:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.