A Lightweight and Secure Vehicular Edge Computing Framework for V2X Services
A Lightweight and Secure Vehicular Edge
Computing Framework for V2X Services
Ramneek1 and Sangheon Pack1
1Korea University, Seoul, South Korea
ramneek@korea.ac.kr and shpack@korea.ac.kr
Abstract—Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communications over
cellular networks have a great potential for enabling intelli-
gent transportation systems (ITSs), and supporting advanced
services such as autonomous driving. However, such services
have stringent QoS and security/privacy requirements. Even
though the use of blockchain can ensure security and privacy
for V2X services, blockchain-based solutions suffer from the
issues of high latency, low scalability, and high computation
power for mining. To overcome these challenges, we propose a
lightweight and secure vehicular edge computing framework. The
LS-VEC framework leverages directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) for
recording transactions for edge resource allocation and micro-
transactions for pricing VEC resources. In addition, an auction
theory-based game-theoretic approach is proposed for allocation
and pricing of edge resources used for supporting computation
offloading.
Index Terms—5G, VEC, V2X, DAG.
I. INTRODUCTION
Vehicle-to-everything (V2X) communications involve in-
teractions between vehicles and road-side units (RSU) for
enabling advanced applications such as fully autonomous driv-
ing (FAD), highly autonomous driving (HAD), tele-operated
driving, cooperative sensing, safety services, high-density pla-
tooning, infotainment services, and so on [1]. Such critical
applications have stringent quality of service (QoS) require-
ments. Vehicular edge computing (VEC) provides an efficient
solution for hosting data and compute intensive tasks while
satisfying the strict QoS requirements for advanced V2X
applications [2].
Further, ubiquitous vehicle connectivity and seamless access
to edge resources call for strict security and privacy mecha-
nisms to prohibit unauthorized access to sensitive vehicle and
personal data (e.g., critical data for autonomous driving sys-
tems and mission-critical applications). However, conventional
solutions handling security at the application layer involve
high overheads and hence fail to provide the strict timeliness
required in V2X environments [3], [4].
Recent works have investigated the blockchain (BC) tech-
nology to address these issues for VEC [5]. However,
blockchain-based solutions for interactions between the ve-
hicles and edge servers lack scalability, and involve high
computational overheads for mining of blocks to verify the
transactions [6]. Moreover, provisioning VEC resources for
V2X will involve a large number of micro-payments, and
hence, paying a transaction fee greater than the value being
transferred is not acceptable.
To address these challenges, we propose a lightweight
and secure VEC (LS-VEC) framework for emerging V2X
services. LS-VEC leverages IOTA for recording transactions
for accessing VEC resources, as well as micro-transactions
for pricing VEC resources [7]. To issue a transaction, a user
must verify two previous transactions, and thus the miners are
eliminated from the verification process that leads to enhanced
decentralization and scalability. In addition, we present a
game-theory based auction mechanism for efficient resource
allocation and pricing of VEC resources, with an aim of
maximizing the edge service quality.
II. LS-VEC FRAMEWORK
The LS-VEC framework leverages IOTA for secure and effi-
cient provisioning of VEC resources for V2X communication.
We consider a scenario where edge resources provisioned by
5G network operator are used for storing and processing the
data generated by on-board units and roadside units (RSUs).
In IOTA, the transactions among various nodes in the network
are saved using tangle data structure (i.e., a directed acyclic
graph (DAG)) [8].
The overview of the LS-VEC framework is depicted in
Figure 1. Each vehicle and things (e.g., RSU and pedestrian)
are treated as nodes in the system and assigned a unique
digital identity, created by combining the node’s public address
and the private key. Private keys as well as addresses for
all the transactions can be generated using cryptographic
sponge functions taking parameters such as a unique index and
security level [6] into consideration. All the data transactions
for accessing VEC resources, as well as micro-transactions
for pricing the edge resources are recorded as transaction on
the tangle, issued by different nodes in the system. Unlike
traditional blockchains, there are no miners in IOTA and
thus any issued transaction must be approved by at least
two previous transactions before it is added to the network
to form a DAG structure [8], as illustrated in Algorithm 1.
Consequently, the latency and computational overheads related
to the mining process in the traditional blockchains can be
overcome, and these transactions can be issued without any
additional fees.
Further, the LS-VEC framework combines IOTA with a
game-theoretic method for efficient pricing and resource al-
location. We consider the vehicles and things as bidders that
bid for VEC resources (e.g., virtual machines (VMs) of the
VEC server), based on their sensitivity to latency. We follow
1316
2022 IEEE 42nd International Conference on Distributed Computing Systems (ICDCS)
2575-8411/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICDCS54860.2022.00146
20
22
 IE
EE
 4
2n
d 
In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 D
is
tri
bu
te
d 
C
om
pu
tin
g 
Sy
st
em
s (
IC
D
C
S)
 | 
97
8-
1-
66
54
-7
17
7-
0/
22
/$
31
.0
0 
©
20
22
 IE
EE
 | 
D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
D
C
S5
48
60
.2
02
2.
00
14
6
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fig. 1: System model: The transactions corresponding to interactions between nodes for VEC are recorded on DAG.
Algorithm 1 DAG-based VEC Transaction Creation
Input: The input transaction (Txi) <address, signature, value, tag>;
Node i creating the transaction Txi.
Output:Broadcasting input Txi to Tangle.
1: Construct the Txi or a bundle in case of multiple transactions.
2: if Txi has value transfer then
3: Sign the Txi inputs with personal private key.
4: else
5: Simply send the Txi.
6: end if
7: Choose two unconfirmed transactions using Markov chain Monte
Carlo algorithm.
8: Execute the Proof of Work and check for any conflicting trans-
actions.
9: Update the nonce of Txi object.
10: Broadcast Txi to the Tangle.
a sealed-bid second-price auction where the bidders submit
sealed bids in terms of the amount of the VEC resources
required and the price they are willing to pay. After that, the
VEC server acts as auctioneer and allocates the VMs based
on the bids offered and the VM requirements of different
nodes. The detailed auction-based resource allocation method
is illustrated in Algorithm 2.
Based on Algorithm 2, the Nash Equilibrium, indicating the
suitable value of price delivering the maximum QoS to each
user i can be expressed as σ∗i = pi(σ
∗
−i). Algorithm 2 takes
the bid prices of all the nodes, expressed as a combination
of required VMs and the offered per unit price, as input.
Based on it, the valuation and cost are calculated, and the edge
service quality Q is expressed as their difference. Finally, the
best response of each node, representing QoS maximizing the
response is expressed as σi. All these transactions for edge
resource allocation and pricing, as well as for data exchange
between the nodes are recorded on tangle, as explained in
Algorithm 1.
III. CONCLUSION
In the LS-VEC framework, all the transactions are recorded
to form a DAG structure and the IOTA consensus algorithm
is used for transaction verification. The game-theoretic pric-
ing method is used to allocate the required resources while
maximizing the achieved QoS, based on the offered price. As
a result, the LS-VEC framework provides a lightweight and
secure solution for edge-assisted V2X communication. Our
future work entails the extension of the LS-VEC framework
Algorithm 2 Dynamic Game-Theoretic Pricing
Input: Bid of node i, Bi = (vi, pi) defined in terms of amount of
virtual resources vi and offered bid price pi; total resources with
VEC V ; allocated resources vai; valuation αi of user i; user welfare
wi; QoS Q;
Output: QoS maximizing bid price pi
1: Firstly N bidders submit their bids such that vi < V .
2: Collect bid from all N nodes
3: for i = 1 to N do
4: Compute allocated resources vai as vai = min(vi,
pi
ρ
V ),
ρ =
∑
vi
5: Calculate the cost Ci(vi, pi) = vai ∗ pi.
6: Calculate the valuation Λi(vi, pi), as Λi = μi,v−μi,φ, where
μ(i, v) is the expected QoS achieved by serving user i with v
resources and μi,φ is the default expected QoS.
7: The edge service quality Q can be expressed as: Q = Λ−C
8: Hence, the best (QoS maximizing) response of node i, σi can
be calculated as σi(pi) = argmaxpiQ(pi).
9: end for
for multiple VEC service providers and detailed evaluation
using real-world data traces.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work is supported by National Research Founda-
tion (NRF) grant funded by the Korean Government (No.
2020R1I1A1A01066031 and 2020R1A2C3006786).
REFERENCES
[1] H. Zhou, W. Xu, J. Chen, and W. Wang, “Evolutionary v2x technologies
toward the internet of vehicles: Challenges and opportunities,” Proceed-
ings of the IEEE, vol. 108, no. 2, pp. 308–323, 2020.
[2] A. Moubayed, A. Shami, P. Heidari, A. Larabi, and R. Brunner, “Edge-
enabled v2x service placement for intelligent transportation systems,”
IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 20, no. 4, pp. 1380–1392,
2021.
[3] M. Hasan, S. Mohan, T. Shimizu, and H. Lu, “Securing vehicle-to-
everything (v2x) communication platforms,” IEEE Transactions on In-
telligent Vehicles, vol. 5, no. 4, pp. 693–713, 2020.
[4] A. G. Tasiopoulos, O. Ascigil, I. Psaras, and G. Pavlou, “Edge-map:
Auction markets for edge resource provisioning,” in WoWMoM 2018,
2018, pp. 14–22.
[5] D. C. Nguyen, P. N. Pathirana, M. Ding, and A. Seneviratne, “Blockchain
for 5g and beyond networks: A state of the art survey,” Journal of Network
and Computer Applications, vol. 166, p. 102693, 2020.
[6] V. Hassija, V. Chamola, G. Han, J. J. P. C. Rodrigues, and M. Guizani,
“Dagiov: A framework for vehicle to vehicle communication using
directed acyclic graph and game theory,” IEEE Transactions on Vehicular
Technology, vol. 69, no. 4, pp. 4182–4191, 2020.
[7] W. F. Silvano and R. Marcelino, “Iota tangle: A cryptocurrency to com-
municate internet-of-things data,” Future Generation Computer Systems,
vol. 112, pp. 307–319, 2020.
[8] S. Popov, “The tangle,” White paper, vol. 1, no. 3, 2018.
1317
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:55:49 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.