Hybrid Strategies for Choosing Suitable Cryptosystem Based on Game and Information Theories
Fifth International Engineering Conference on Developments in Civil & Computer Engineering Applications 2019 - (IEC2019) - 
Erbil - IRAQ 
978-1-7281-4377-4/19/$31.00 ©2019 IEEE                                                     95                                                   
Hybrid Strategies for Choosing Suitable 
Cryptosystem Based on Game and Information 
Theories 
 Sattar B. Sadkhan- SMIEEE                                           
IT College – Babylon University  
 Babil- Iraq 
 drengsattar@ieee.org 
Dhilal  Mohammad 
IT College- Babylon UNiversity  
Babil- Iraq  
dhilal.mohammad@yahoo.com  
 
 
Abstract— This paper provides a new approach for enhancing 
the security of a computer. This enhancement can be achieved by 
treatment with the best strategy for executing some chosen 
crypto-systems on a computer. The enhancement process is done 
in two stages; the first stage depends on the result of the security 
evaluation of the crypto-system. The second stage compares 
several crypto-systems which are evaluated in the first stage.  
This research is a complementary to the previous published 
papers and focused on comparing different crypto-systems 
which are strongly different in their securities, and propose the 
best strategies for their use. The proposed approach used 
information theory and triangular game as a basic rule in order 
to provide accurate indicators for the security of crypto-systems, 
and also used diagonal game to suggest the best strategy to use 
the cryptosystems.  
Keywords— Information Theory; Game Theory; Security 
Evaluation; Crypto-system. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Since the beginning of life there is an urgent need to know 
the value or significance of a particular object in various 
aspects of human life. Such need is called the evaluation. For 
example, when buying something from the market, it is 
necessary to ascertain whether it is valid or not. As a result, the 
evaluation subject has wide applications in many life aspects, 
such as education, economics, health, space, industry, 
computer science, information security and others. 
The evaluation process is defined as; the systematic 
acquisition and assessment information to provide useful 
feedback about some object [1]. With regard to computer 
science, cryptology has three basic parts: cryptography, 
cryptanalysis and security evaluation [2]. The security 
evaluation of crypto-systems is of great importance not less 
than cryptography or cryptanalysis.  
The wide spread of media technologies has led to an 
explosion in the use of mobile devices. As a result, the number 
of connections between individuals increased and the world 
became like a large village. This requires, all the devices 
connected to the network to be secure. One method of 
securing, can be achieved using crypto-systems, which must 
be evaluated before use to verify the strength of its security.  
In order to evaluate the security of cryptosystems, different 
security evaluation methods have been emerged. At each 
evaluation method, there are certain parameters related to the 
evaluated crypto-system that must depend on. These methods 
have been adopted by several researchers. As an example the 
researchers in [3] used heuristic security method to evaluate 
AES, RSA in view point of four attacks (chosen ciphertext, 
brute force, mathematical, timing). Also researchers in 
[4][5][6][7] used soft computing techniques to evaluate some 
symmetric and asymmetric crypto-systems. The unconditional 
security method was used by researchers in [8].  
Researcher in [9], evaluated the security of cryptosystems 
using the unconditional security and diagonal game. Also 
researchers in [10], used the unconditional security and 
triangular game in their evaluation. Researchers in [11], 
evaluated the key space of cryptosystem based on game theory. 
In [12], a good resource about using game theory as a security 
evaluation method for network security. 
The structure of this paper is arranged as follows: section 
II illustrates the security evaluation of cryptosystems. In 
Section III, the mathematical theories of the proposed system 
were presented. Section IV is divided into two subsections, the 
first contains the basic steps of the proposed evaluation 
method, and the second contains a case study related to the 
proposed evaluation method. The results can be found in 
section V, and the last section VI contains the conclusion. 
 
II. SECURITY EVALUATION OF CRYPTOSYSTEMS 
Depending on the type of crypto-system, a specific security 
evaluation’s method has been used. In order to evaluate 
security of crypto-system using various methods, different 
particles (elements) of the crypto-system are dealt with. 
A. Unconditional Security 
This method measures the security of crypto-systems 
against attacker with unlimited computational resources (time, 
hardware, software). This method is appeared when scientist 
Claude Shannon introduced the information theory, which is 
then known as Shannon’s theory. According to Shannon 
theorem, unconditional security method defines a crypto-
system as perfect secrecy system, on the assumption that the 
length of plain-text, key-text, cipher-text spaces are equal. If 
the following two conditions are verified: the first, every key 
in the key space is used with equal probability; The second, 
there is only unique key for every character’s mapping from 
the plain-text space to the cipher-text space. Based on this 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fifth International Engineering Conference on Developments in Civil & Computer Engineering Applications 2019 - 
(IEC2019) - Erbil - IRAQ 
69 
 
method, the limitation of using perfect secrecy crypto-system 
is the length of the key must be at least as the length of the 
message and this interpret why one time pad crypto-systems 
are rarely used  [13].  
B. Computational Security 
This method measures the crypto-system security based on 
the computational recourses, which are needed by the attacker 
for breaking it. This method defines a crypto-system as 
computational secure system from two viewpoints: the 
concrete approach and the asymptotic approach. In concrete 
viewpoint, for every attacker, the probability of success for 
breaking crypto-system is (ɛ), and the time required is at most 
(t), then the crypto-system is considered (t,ɛ)-secure. In 
asymptotic viewpoint: if the success probability of breaking 
crypto-system is negligible, for every probabilistic polynomial 
time attacker, then the crypto-system is secure. This method is 
practical, but it has not proven assumption. It also weaker than 
the unconditional security method. Since its strength is 
measured based on the available computational resources for 
attacker which are variable with time, i.e. secure computational 
crypto-system in one time will be insecure computationally 
with the increased advanced in modern computational 
technology [14]. 
C. Provable Security 
This method measures the security of crypto-system 
relative to the difficulty of well-known mathematical problem 
that the crypto-system rely on. This method is considered as 
special case of computational security method. The security of 
crypto-system depends on the computational resources 
required by the attacker in order to solve its mathematical 
problems. The most well-known problems that security of the 
new crypto-systems depend on are the discrete logarithm 
problem and the integer factorization problem. This security 
method is very popular and is well known to evaluate public 
crypto-systems [13] . 
D. Heuristic Security   
This method measures the security of crypto-system based 
on its resistance to well-known attacks. This method is 
considered as weakest method since it does not submit the 
crypto-system with several possible attacks and consequently 
it does not consider as formal proof. This method is applied in 
all types of crypto-systems, each type with its counterpart 
attacks[15] . 
E. Soft Computing Techniques 
This method measure the security of crypto-system based 
on using soft computing techniques such as fuzzy logic, 
genetic algorithm and NN. Different researchers used one of 
these techniques or a combination of some of them. In [4], 
researchers ANFIS evaluator which is a combination of fuzzy 
logic and artificial neural network. Also they used five 
parameters in their evaluator to evaluate RSA. In [5], 
researchers used fuzzy logic to evaluate the security of some 
chosen block ciphers (RC5, Blowfish, DES). They used key 
size, number of rounds and block size as inputs to their 
evaluator. Also researcher in [6] used fuzzy logic to evaluate 
some knapsack crypto-systems (Luli system, Chor Rivest, 
Traditional and Advance Adina Diparto Systems).  The inputs 
of the evaluator were the entropy and the density of the 
knapsack vector.  
The ANN is used by researchers in [7] as evaluator. The 
evaluate the security of the following cryptosystems (Merkle 
Hellman, Lu-Lee, Goodman-Maculey, Adina di Parto). They 
considered in their evaluator the density of knapsack vector 
and the attacking methods applied on the chosen crypto-
systems.  
F. Statistical Tests 
This method measure the security of stream cipher based 
on the security pseudo-random number generators. This 
method measures the amount of randomness in the output 
stream of these generators. Different statistical suits are found 
such as ENT tests, FIPS 140–1, Diehard battery, NIST 
Statistical Test Suite, FIPS 140–2 [16]. 
G. Game Theory 
In order to analyze problems of conflict of interest, these 
problems are formulated as mathematical methods. These 
methods are known as games under the umbrella of game 
theory. So different games are used to analyze the conflict of 
interests between people, groups of people [17]. In Wireless 
and communication networks, game theory has flourished in 
this area. Due to this environment reflects different scenarios 
of competition on limited resources such as frequencies, 
resources sharing, transmit power, interface management and 
packet forwarding. Different problems related to network 
security were analyzed in [12] using game theory.   
H. Game Theory and Unconditional Security 
This method represents a combination of two security 
evaluation methods: unconditional security which is 
represented by information theory and game theory. This 
method exploits the strength points of both theories. The 
information theory provides an actual and accurate values 
related to crypto-system, and game theory analyze the 
interaction among players which are competed on limited 
resources. The method includes the values of information 
theory related to crypto-systems into the framework of game 
theory and finally solve the game [9],[10]. 
 
III. INFORMATION AND GAME THEORIES 
In order to understand the role of information theory in 
evaluating the security of crypto-systems, the appropriate 
frame must be considered. The probability theory is the 
appropriate framework which describes the security of crypto-
system against attacker with unlimited resources.  Such 
security is called the unconditional security, information 
theoretic security or perfect secrecy [13]. The unconditional 
security has been known after scientific Claude E. Shannon 
published his paper, “communication theory of secrecy 
systems”, in 1949. In his paper he answered some problems 
related to perfect secrecy in terms of entropy and redundancy. 
Such problems are: what is the system’s resistance to the 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fifth International Engineering Conference on Developments in Civil & Computer Engineering Applications 2019 - 
(IEC2019) - Erbil - IRAQ 
69 
 
attacker when unlimited resources such as time, hardware, 
software and manpower? Does the encrypted text have a single 
solution and what is the number of solutions that the encrypted 
text can carry? How long is the text required for a single 
solution? [18]. 
Therefore, the process of evaluating crypto-system begins 
by calculating set of possibilities from probability theory. 
These possibilities are related to plain-text, cipher-text and 
key-text spaces. These possibilities include: plain-text’s 
probability, cipher-text’s probability, key-text’s probability, 
joint probability of plain-text and key-text and the conditional 
probability of plain-text in the presence of cipher-text. The 
evaluation process continues by calculating a set of entropies 
from information theory. This set includes plain-text, cipher-
text and key-text entropies. Also the joint entropy of the plain-
text and key-text, and the conditional entropy of the plain-text 
given the cipher-text. When the entropies’ values of the crypto-
system are obtained, the evaluation process using the 
information theory is done. A detailed example about the 
security evaluation process of crypto- system can be seen in 
[8][9]. 
With regard to the role of game theory in the security 
evaluation process of crypto-system, there are three abstract 
methods which are described, by John von Neumann and 
Oskar Morgenstern, in 1944. These methods represent a 
general umbrella that encompasses all games in game theory 
and are formulated to analyze problems in several areas. 
Depending on the nature of the problem and the factors 
influencing the problem, the type of adopted method is chosen. 
The methods are the following: extensive form, characteristic 
form and normal form [19]. In this paper, emphasis has been 
placed on games from the normal form method which will be 
clarified. 
The game in this form is characterized by the number of 
players n, the set of strategies (the strategy space) for each 
player N1, N2, … . . Nn, and the payoff function that represents 
a mapping from the Cartesian product of players’ strategy 
spaces N1 × N2 × ⋯ × Nn into n-dimensional Euclidean 
space. Games in normal form are used either to study two 
person’s games and are represented by matrix game, or to 
study n- person’s non-cooperative games and are represented 
by n-dimensional matrix [20]. 
Solution’s methods for static games in normal form can be 
classified into solutions based on pure strategies and solutions 
based on mixed strategies as shown in Fig.1. In order to 
describe these methods, a mathematical definition 1, for non-
cooperative static game in strategic must be showed:  
Definition 1[20]: Let G = (𝒩, (Si)i∈𝒩 , (ui)i∈𝒩), a non-
cooperative game in strategic (or normal) form, where: 
 𝒩 : finite set of players, i.e., 𝒩 = {1, … , N}. 
 Si : set of player i’s strategies. 
 ui: S → ℝ :  player i ‘s utility function, with S =
Si × … × Si × … × SN (Cartesian product of the 
strategy sets). 
 
Fig.  1. Solutions’ Methods for Normal Form Game 
One of the popular games used for analyzing problems in 
wireless and communication networks is zero- sum game. For 
example, a security game is zero-sum which is used for 
representing the interaction between two parities defender and 
attacker [20]. The solutions’ methods in Fig. 1, are only 
suitable for two person’s zero-sum static game in normal form 
where the strategy set are finite and discrete.  
Two games, diagonal game and triangular game, are 
mentioned in this paper. These games can be solved based on 
useful principle called the principle of indifference. This 
principle states that Player1 searches for a strategy that makes 
Player2 is indifferent as to which of the (good) pure strategies 
to use. Similarly, Player2 should play in such a way to make 
Player1 is indifferent among his (good) strategies [21]. These 
games can be solved based on the ideas in the following 
theorem.  
Theorem (1) [21]: Suppose a game matrix A with m × n , 
the value of the game V. Let any optimal strategy for player1 
be p = (p1, . . . . , pm)T and any optimal strategy for  player2 be 
q = (q1, . . . . , qn)T , then ∑ aijqj = Vn
j=1 , for all i for which 
pi > 0 . And ∑ piaij = Vm
i=1   for all j  for which qj > 0.∎ 
Triangular game is used in the security evaluation process 
of cryptosystem by including values in certain positions of the 
triangular matrix. These values are computed from information 
theory. A detailed example about the security evaluation 
process can be seen in [10]. 
Also diagonal game is used in the security evaluation 
process of cryptosystems by including values in certain 
positions of the diagonal matrix. These values are computed 
from information theory. A detailed example about the security 
evaluation process can be seen in [9]. 
Pure 
Strategies
Domination 
Saddle Point
Mixed 
Strategies
Equalizing 
Strategy
Graphical 
Solution
Linear 
Programming
The Principle 
of 
Indifference
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fifth International Engineering Conference on Developments in Civil & Computer Engineering Applications 2019 - 
(IEC2019) - Erbil - IRAQ 
69 
 
Fig.  2. Flow Chart for the Proposed Security Evaluation Method 
 
IV. A PROPOSED CRYPTOSYSTEMS’ SECURITY EVALUATION 
METHOD 
A. How to Evaluate Cryptosystem’s Security Using  the 
Proposed Method 
The proposed system in Fig. 2, employs two of the 
important mathematical theories, namely the information and 
game theories.  
 
1) Determine the number of crypto-systems N to be used 
on a terminal. 
2) Evaluate each of the determined crypto-systems 
using information theory by following these steps. 
a) Specify the space for each of the plain-text, 
cipher-text and key-text. 
b) Calculate the independent probabilities for the 
specified spaces, the joint probability and the 
conditional probability. 
c) Calculate the entropies for the plain-text, cipher-
text and key-text.  
d) Calculate the joint and the conditional entropies 
for the specified spaces. And make sure about the 
validity of the calculation process. 
e) Include the values of the calculated entropies at 
specific sites in the triangular matrix of the 
triangular game. 
f) Solve the triangular game and calculate the value 
of the game. 
3) Repeat the step (2), N times, and store the results’ 
values of evaluation for all chosen cryptosystems. 
4) Include values of crypto-systems’ security evaluation 
stored in step (3), in specific locations of the diagonal 
matrix. 
5) Solve the diagonal matrix of the diagonal game and 
calculate the probabilities of players. 
 
 
B. Case Study  
At the beginning, three crypto-systems are chosen for 
security evaluation, which are additive, multiplicative and 
affine. Each one of the chosen crypto-systems must be 
evaluated as it has been explained in [9]. The chosen plaintext 
was “transposition ciphers rearrange characters according to 
some scheme”. 
First, Shannon’s entropies for each crypto-systems are 
computed. The results of computing Shannon’s entropies are 
shown in TABLE I.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use Specific Cryptosystem  
Enter Plain, Cipher, Key 
Spaces 
Compute Prior Probability for Plain, 
Key 
Compute Cipher 
Probability 
Compute Shannon’s Entropies 
Is Shannon’s 
Entropies correctly 
computed? 
Y
N
o 
Using Diagonal Game 
as Framework 
Proposed Security Evaluator 
Start 
 
End 
 
Shannon’s Entropies 
Values 
Determine the number 𝑁  of 
cryptosystems to be evaluated,  
𝐼 = 1 
Using Diagonal 
Game as 
Framework
Results ‘ evaluation of a single 
cryptosystem 
Results ‘evaluation of all cryptosystems 
Is  𝐼 = 𝑁 ? 
Y
𝐼 = 𝐼 + 1 
N
o 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fifth International Engineering Conference on Developments in Civil & Computer Engineering Applications 2019 - 
(IEC2019) - Erbil - IRAQ 
66 
 
 
TABLE I. SHANNON’S CRITERIA OF SOME CHOSEN CRYPTO-SYSTEMS 
 
Shannon’s Criteria 
plain 
entrop
y 
key 
entrop
y 
cipher 
entrop
y 
joint 
entrop
y 
condition
al 
entropy 
C
r
y
p
to
-s
y
st
em
 Multiplicativ
e 
3.631 3.459 4.576 7.091 2.514 
Additive 3.631 4.644 4.698 8.275 3.576 
Affine 3.631 8.285 4.700 
11.91
6 
7.216 
As it was explained in [10], and in order to evaluate the 
security of each chosen cryptosystem, the values of Shannon 
entropies in TABLE I., will be including in triangular matrix 
of triangular game for each chosen crypto-systems, as shown 
in TABLES II. , III, and table  IV. respectively. 
TABLE II. TRIANGULAR GAME WITH VALUES OF SHANNON’S ENTROPIES 
FOR MULTIPLICATIVE 
 Player2 
P
la
y
e
r1
 H
4.576 
-
-2.513 
3
3.459 
-
-3.631 
0 
H
4.576 
-
-2.513 
3
3.459 
0 0 
H
4.576 
-
-2.513 
0 0 0 
H
4.576 
TABLE III. TRIANGULAR GAME WITH VALUES OF SHANNON’S ENTROPIES 
FOR ADDITIVE 
 
Player2 
P
la
y
e
r1
 
4.698 -3.576 4.644 
-
-3.631 
0 
4.698 -3.576 4.644 
0 0 
4.698 -3.576 
0 0 0 
4.698 
TABLE IV. TRIANGULAR GAME WITH VALUES OF SHANNON’S ENTROPIES 
FOR AFFINE 
 
Player2 
P
la
y
e
r1
 
4.700 -7.216 8.285 
-
-3.631 
0 
4.700 -7.216 8.285 
0 0 
4.700 -7.216 
0 0 0 
4.700 
 
 
In order to solve Triangular game of Multiplicative, 
Additive and Affine crypto-systems in TABLES II. , III., IV. 
respectively, the method in [10] will be followed, the results of 
solving these game are shown in TABLE V. 
TABLE V. RESULTS OF FIRST PROPOSED METHOD FOR THREE CHOSEN 
CRYPTO-SYSTEMS 
Crypto-systems 
Value of Triangular 
Game 
Multiplicative 0.940 
Additive 0.908 
Affine 0.535 
 
Now, to compute the best strategy for executing the chosen 
cryptosystems on computer, the method in [9] is followed. And 
consequently, the values in TABLE V, are included in diagonal 
matrix of diagonal game as shown in TABLE VI. 
TABLE VI. DIAGONAL GAME WITH RESULTS OF FIRST PROPOSED METHOD 
PLAYER
S 
II (designer) 
I 
(E
v
al
u
at
o
r)
 
STRATEGIE
S 
Multiplicativ
e 
Additiv
e 
Affin
e 
M
u
lt
ip
li
ca
ti
ve
 
0.940 0 0 
A
d
d
it
iv
e 0 0.908 0 
A
ff
in
e 
0 0 0.535 
 
Now, it is time for computing strategies vector for Player1 
(p1,p2,p3) , for Player2 (q1, q2,q3) and  the value of the 
diagonal matrix in TABLE VI. 
V = (∑ 1 di⁄m
i=1 )−1                   (1) 
= (1 0.940⁄ + 1 0.908⁄ + 1 0.535⁄ )−1 
= (4.03431)−1 
= 0.248 
pi = qi =
V
di
            for i = 1, … m    (2) 
p1 = q1 = 0.248 0.940⁄ =  0.262 
p2 = q2 = 0.248 0.908⁄  =  0.272 
p3 = q3 = 0.248 0.535⁄ = 0.461 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Fifth International Engineering Conference on Developments in Civil & Computer Engineering Applications 2019 - 
(IEC2019) - Erbil - IRAQ 
011 
 
 
V. RESULTS OF THE PROPOSED METHOD 
The results of solving diagonal game is shown in TABLE 
VII. 
TABLE VII. RESULTS OF SECOND PROPOSED METHOD FOR THREE CHOSEN 
CRYPTO-SYSTEMS 
Crypto-
systems 
Values of 
Triangular 
Games 
Value of 
Diagonal 
Game 
Players’ 
strategies: 
The Used 
Crypto-
system 
Values of 
Strategies 
Multiplicative 0.940 
0.248 
p1, q1: 
Multiplicative  
0.262 
Additive 0.908 
p2, q2: 
Additive 
0.272 
Affine 0.535 
P3, q3:  
Affine 
0.461 
 
In TABLE VII., three chosen crypto-systems 
(multiplicative, additive, affine) are evaluated. The values of 
the triangular games represent the weakness of each chosen 
crypto-system. Suppose a computer employs more than one 
cryptosystem, and game theory can be used to draw the best 
strategy for executing these crypto-systems.  
The viewpoint is related to time, suppose a computer uses 
one crypto-system from the available chosen crypto-system. 
Game theory advises us instead of using one crypto-system in 
certain full period of time, it is best to use first crypto-system 
(multiplicative) with probability (0.262) of full period, second 
crypto-system (additive) with probability (0.272) of full period 
and third crypto-system (Affine) with probability (0.461) of 
full period, to reduce the weakness to (0.248) instead of (0.940, 
0.908, 0.535). 
VI. CONCLUSIONS 
Information Theory is used to compute the security criteria 
for each chosen crypto-system. The results of applying the 
information theory and triangular game represent an evaluation 
for each crypto-system. After determining the weakness for 
each chosen crypto-system.  Now diagonal game is used to 
draw the best strategies for playing the game. Playing the game 
refers to how can one use the crypto-systems with different 
security’ weakness. Diagonal game in the proposed evaluator, 
can be seen as search game where two players want to find 
something (that is, reducing inherent cryptosystems’ 
security weakness). Diagonal game gives an advice for 
searching something with minimum resources such as time or 
hardware. And also it can be used in another application. 
 
 
 
 
                 REFERENCES 
[1] P. N. Lakshmi Shanmugam, Evaluation of Learning, Laxmi Book 
Publication, 2016. 
[2] S. B. Sadkhan and N. A. Abaas, “Chapter 1- Multidisciplinary in 
Cryptology”, from book, “Multidisciplinary Perspectives in Cryptology 
and Information Security”, IGI Global, 2014. 
[3] A. Al Hasib and A. M. Mahmudul Haque, "A Comparative Study of the 
Performance and Security Issues of AES and RSA Cryptography" Third 
2008 International Conference on Convergence and Hybrid Information 
Technology, IEEE, 2008. 
[4] S. B. Sadkhan and F. H. Abdulraheem, " A Proposed ANFIS Evaluator 
for RSA Crypto-system used in Cloud Networking " 2017 International 
Conference on Current Research in Computer Science and Information 
Technology (ICCIT), IEEE, 2017. 
[5] S. A. Mohammed and S. B. Sadkhan, "Block Cipher Security 
Evaluation Based on Fuzzy Logic" The First International Conference 
of Electrical, Communications, Computer, Power and Control 
Engineering ICECCPCE’13/December 17-18, IEEE, 2013. 
[6] S. B. Sadkhan, A. H. Nasef and S. F. Jawad, “ Complexity Evaluation 
of Knapsack Crypto System using Fuzzy Set”, Journal of Basrah 
Researches ((sciences)), 2011. 
[7] S. B. Sadkhan, N. A. Abbas and M. K. Ibrahim, "A PROPOSED 
SECURITY EVALUATOR FOR KNAPSACK PUBLIC KEY 
CRYPTO-SYSTEMS BASED ON ANN", IEEE, 1997. 
[8] D. M. Reda, Security Evaluation of Crypto-systems Based on 
Information Theory, Master Thesis, College of Science, Babylon 
University, 2013. 
[9] S. B. Sadkhan and D. M. Reda, “Cryptosystem Security Evaluation 
Based on Diagonal Game and Information Theory”, International 
Conference on Engineering Technologies and their Applications-
2018,ICETA-2018,  IEEE, 2018. 
[10] S. B. Sadkhan and D. M. Reda, “ A Proposed Security Evaluator for 
Cryptosystem based on Information Theory and Triangular Game”, 
International Conference on Advanced Science and Engineering 2018 
(ICOASE2018),  IEEE, 2018. 
[11] S. B. Sadkhan and D. M. Reda, “Best Strategies of Choosing Crypto-
System’s Key for Cryptographer and Attacker Based on Game theory”, 
New Trends in Computing, Communications, and Information 
Technology, NTCCIT- 2018,  IEEE, 2018. 
[12] S. Kim, “Chapter 6- Game Theory for Network Security”, from book, 
“Game Theory Applications in Network Design”, IGI Global, 2014, pp. 
158-171. 
[13] D. Stinson, Cryptography: Theory and Practice. CRC Press, CRC Press 
LLC, 1995. 
[14] J. Katz and Y. Lindell, “Chapter 2- Perfectly-Secret Encryption”, from 
book, “INTRODUCTION TO MODERN CRYPTOCRAPHY”, Taylor 
& Francis Group LCC, 2008. 
[15] C. Douligeris and D. N. Serpanos, NETWORK SECURITY Current 
Status and Future Direction. John Wiley & Sons, Inc., Publication, 
2007. 
[16] D. Bucerzan, M. Craciun, V. Chis and C. Ratiu, "Stream Ciphers 
Analysis Methods" Int. J. of Computers, Communications & Control, 
vol. V(2010), pp. 483-489, 2010. 
[17] L.C. Thomas, “Chapter 1- The game’s afoot”, from book, “GAMES, 
THEORY AND APPLICATIONS”, Dover Publications, 2003 
[18] C. E. Shannon, "Communication Theory of Secrecy Systems" Bell 
System Technical Journal, vol. 28-4, pp. 656-715, Oct. 1949. 
[19] W. F. Lucas, “GAME THEORY and its Applications". American 
Mathematical Society, 1989. 
[20] Z. Han, D. Niyato, W. Saad, T. Basar, and A. Hjorungenes, Game 
Theory in Wireless and Communication Networks Theory, Methods, 
and Applications. Cambridge University Press, 2012. 
[21] T. S. Ferguson, “Chapter 2- Two-Person Zero-Sum Games”, 
from book, GAME THEORY,UCLA, 2008. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:22:41 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.