Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains
Practical Privacy Measures
in Blockchains
Omar S. Saleh, Osman Ghazali and Norbik Bashah Idris
Abstract The Blockchain Technology has recently been a hot topic proposed in
many industries such as Financial, Healthcare, Business, E-Government, Education,
etc. The Blockchain can simply be defined as a distributed database or public ledger
that contains records of all digital transactions/events that have transpired amongst
the parties involved. The technology itself is comprised of other more fundamen-
tal knowledge namely: cryptography, distributed system, network and game theory.
Thus at the more basic level, the blockchain components include functions such
as hash, asymmetric cryptography, digital signatures, peer-to-peer network proto-
cols and some elements of a “proof of correctness/work” resulting from a game-like
setup. Against a backdrop of such a mixture of functions, “privacy” has emerged to
be one of the new challenges in any Blockchain implementation. This research aims
to investigate the techniques that can be used to successfully manage privacy in the
blockchains. The work has identified the requirements and analyzed the techniques
that can be used. Finally, the work was also extended to an analysis on the perfor-
mance evaluation of blockchains in managing privacy albeit focusing on a specific
blockchain—the Hyperledger fabric platform.
Keywords DLT (Distributed Ledger Technology) · Blockchain · Cryptography ·
Hash · Privacy · Zero-knowledge proofs · Peer-to-peer · Hyperledger
O. S. Saleh (B)
Studies, Planning and Follow-Up Directorate, Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific
Research, Baghdad, Iraq
e-mail: omar_saad@ahsgs.uum.edu.my
O. S. Saleh · O. Ghazali
School of Computing, University Utara Malaysia, Kedah, Malaysia
e-mail: osman@uum.edu.my
N. B. Idris
Kulliyyah of Information and Communication Technology, International Islamic University
Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
e-mail: norbik@iium.edu.my
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020
M. A. Khan et al. (eds.), Decentralised Internet of Things, Studies in Big Data 71,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-38677-1_2
21
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-38677-1_2&domain=pdf
mailto:omar_saad@ahsgs.uum.edu.my
mailto:osman@uum.edu.my
mailto:norbik@iium.edu.my
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-38677-1_2
22 O. S. Saleh et al.
1 Introduction
A Blockchain has been defined by [1] as a distributed database or public ledger that
contains records of all digital transactions/events that have transpired amongst the
parties involved. Each transaction is verified through agreement amongst themajority
of parties in the system. Once a record is made, the information cannot be erased.
Thus, the blockchain serves as an irrefutable record of every single transaction that
has been made, thereby allowing the participating parties to know for sure that a
digital event has occurred. Each transaction is contained in a block with several
blocks being linked to each other linearly and chronologically in the form of a chain.
Authors [2] define the blockchain as continuous and unchangeable chains of
data whereby different transactions get stored in the form of timestamped blocks.
Blockchain is also known as distributed ledger technology [3]. Each copy of the
Blockchain software (node) is able to store the complete copy of the ledger, write new
entities to its ledger upon a given consensus among the connected nodes, broadcast
transactions and regularly check its copy of ledger if its identical to the ledgers
across most connected nodes [1]. The ledger is a combination of connected blocks.
The block contains the transactions that took place and is chained with the previous
block forming a chain hence the name blockchain. The transactions are compressed
and anchored in the block using a Merkle tree model. The header of each block
in the chain includes the hash of its content and the hash of all information in the
previous block. In the blockchain, cryptography technology takes a significant place.
It ensures the confidentiality of user data and transactions to ensure data consistency
and provide all possible security. Privacy is a challenge in the blockchain due to
the fact of public nature of the network. The transactions of blockchain are public;
hence, it is possible to trace and extract the physical identities of the users by data
mining. Privacy threats would arise from the transactions and network environment.
Hence, this research describes the infrastructure of the blockchain, characteristics
of the blockchain, design principles of blockchain, and the working process of the
blockchain. This work also analyzes the privacy problems that blockchain still has
and introduces the existing measures to these problems.
2 Blockchain Architecture
Blockchain consists of five layers, and each layer involves specific components.
These layers are data layer, consensus layer, contract layer, network layer, and
application layer.
1. Data layer involves several components such as data block, chain structure,
timestamp, hash function, Merkle tree, and digital signature.
2. Consensus layer involves the consensus mechanisms which help the nodes to
reach consensus [4].
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 23
3. The Contract layer mainly includes the smart contract and other codes which
are the control logic of the decentralized application. The smart contract is a
computer code embedded into the blockchain, and it comprises a set of rules [5].
4. Network layer involves the data transmission protocols and verification mecha-
nisms [6]. A flat topology is the way of nodes connected in the blockchain, which
means there is no trusted node or central node.
5. The application layer involves the applications. The typical applications of
blockchain are Bitcoin, Ethereum, andHyperledger [7]. Figure 1 shows the archi-
tecture of the blockchain and Fig. 2 shows the architecture of the blockchain in
Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger.
Bitcoin, Ethereum, and Hyperledger are the most three dominant blockchains.
Many commonalities are in the overall architecture, but they are different in the
Fig. 1 Blockchain architecture
24 O. S. Saleh et al.
Layers Bitcoin Ethereum Hyperledger
Application Bitcoin Trading Ethereum trading Enterprise Appli-
cations 
Contract Script Solidity/Script 
EVM 
Go/Java Docket 
Consensus Pow PoW PBFT/SBFT 
Network TCP-based P2P TCP-based P2P HTTP/2-based P2P 
Data Merkle tree Merkle Patricia Merkel Bockt tree 
Tree 
Fig. 2 Blockchain architecture among Bitcoin, Ethereum and Hyperledger
implementation, including data structure, consensus mechanism, smart contract, net-
work, and application. The data structure adopted in Bitcoin is Merkle tree and in
Ethereum is Merkle Patricia Tree, and Hyperledger is Merkle bockt tree. Proof of
Work (PoW) is the consensus mechanism used in Bitcoin. Proof of Work (PoW) and
proof of stake (PoS) are consensus mechanisms used in Ethereum. Practical Byzan-
tine fault tolerance (PBFT) and Speculative Byzantine fault tolerance (SBFT) are
consensus mechanisms used in Hyperledger [8–10]. A TCP protocol is used in both
Bitcoin and Ethereum while HTTP/2 protocol is used in Hyperledger (Fig. 3).
Fig. 3 Blockchain structure
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 25
2.1 Blockchain Structure
Blockchain is a chain of connected blocks. Each block is the collection of valid
transactions. Any node in the blockchain-based system can start a transaction and
broadcast to all nodes present in the network. Nodes in the network validate the
transaction using the old transactions and then block added to the existing blockchain.
Each block in the blockchain has two components which are block header and list of
transactions [11, 12]. Block header containsMetadata of the block. Every block in the
blockchain inherits from the previous block. The block is constructed using mining
statistics. This measure has to be enough complicated to make them tamper-proof
and based on the following formula:
Hk = Hash(Hk−1|T| |nonce|)
where T and nonce can be obtained by solving the consensus mechanism. The hash
of the current block can be calculated by the Hash of previous block Hash value,
transaction root Hash value. Block is also containing the Merkle Tree Root.
2.2 Blockchain Working Process
The Blockchain working process is simply described by four steps [13], as indicated
below:
1. The sending node records new data and generates the necessary hash and
broadcast that to the network;
2. The receiving node checks the message’s hashes and the content if the message is
correct, then it will be stored to its block; this process is generally done through
what is called a “proof effort”, e.g., proof ofwork (PoW)or proof of stake (PoS) or
other model depending on the type of blockchain in use. However, the dominant
ones are PoW and PoS [14].
When the majority of the nodes store the block, and it builds on it and moves to
the next one. Blockchain working process is shown in Fig. 4.
With the PKI being at the forefront of the blockchain’s architecture; the consensus
is whatmakes it all work together. The consensus is what allows the different nodes to
agree to the policies in the network. In the case of Bitcoin and many other blockchain
technologies like Ethereum (as to the date of writing), the consensus is called the
Proof of Work; it is worth noting here that there are many types of consensuses such
as Proof of Stake [15].
Proof of Work (PoW)—as highlighted is the software algorithm that maintains
both the safety as well as the transparency on the blockchain. In the case of Bitcoin, It
uses SHA—256 hash functions to operate. Miner nodes operating on the blockchain
consider 10 min worth of bitcoin-based. Blockchain activity and then encode those
26 O. S. Saleh et al.
Participant in the network request a transaction
The request is broadcasted to other computers (node) in the network
The node validates the request conform to the pre-agreed rules
Once verified it is combined with other transactions to produce a new block 
of data
New block is added to the network blockchain, which is permanent
Transaction Complete
Fig. 4 Blockchain structure
transactions in the form of block. Mathematical solutions are then applied to create
a hash value for that block. By doing this, the mining node has not only recorded
all the transactions occurring during that time but has also indicated to the more
extensive Blockchain network that the work required to hash the transactions has
been performed. In return, the Blockchain network provides the mining node with a
fixed amount of bitcoins [16].
Making the ‘hash’ is a crucial process in the proof of work. Here, the researchers
[17] said that a proof of work incorporates the same operational principles as a
Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell Computers and Humans Apart or
CAPTCHA where any potential users have to go through and pass a test in order
to access services. The proof of work leverages on the computational power of the
Blockchain network, preventing any attempt to interfere or tamper with the blocks.
Proof of Stake (PoS)—This model came to life to tackle the drawbacks of PoW.
As we have seen with the PoW the more hashing power you have the likely you will
be rewarded; This made for what is called in the crypto community a “whale” where
an entity owns most of the power of coins. The entity with the most potent machine
will get to control the network. That is why PoS was proposed. In the simplest form
PoS is when the users in the Blockchain network buy tokens (the asset-specific to
the system like bitcoins in the case of the Bitcoin network) that permit them to con-
duct transactions involving decision making events and the future of the Blockchain
network [18]. Users use the tokens to indicate that they have sufficient balances to
participate. The authors [19] said that this ismore environmentally friendly than PoW
functions as they do not require as much computational power as mining operations.
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 27
Hence the fees for transacting using PoS are lower. However, the PoS mechanism
has been criticized as being excessively centralized. While [20] pointed out that PoS
permits broader user participation amongst users, is less susceptible to centralization.
2.3 Blockchain Types
Blockchain technologies divided into three types: (1) Public
Blockchain(permissionless); (2) Consortium Blockchains and (3) private
Blockchain(permissioned) [13, 14].
2.3.1 Public Blockchain
A Blockchain was designed to securely cut out the middleman in any exchange of
asset scenario. It does this by setting up a block of peer-to-peer transactions. Each
transaction is verified and synced with every node affiliated with the blockchain
before it is written to the system. Until this has occurred, the next transaction cannot
move forward. Anyone with a computer and internet connection can set up as a
node that can sync with the entire blockchain history. Although this redundancy
has it’s advantages such as making public blockchains extremely secure; it is also
a contributing reason to making then slow and somewhat wasteful [21]. A public
blockchain has several benefits, such as:
1. Every transaction is public, and users can maintain individual anonymity;
2. Provides decentralization and becomes an excellent advantage for situations
where a network needs to be decentralized;
3. Full transparency of the ledger; and
4. Faster, secure, and less expensive than the accounting systems and methods
used today in the finance industry, however, the costs are higher, and speeds are
slower than on a private chain. This alsomeans that Public Blockchains allow any
personwith an internet connection to participate in the verification of transactions
process and set themselves as a node [22].
2.3.2 Private Blockchain
Private blockchain lets the middleman back in, to a certain extent. The user writes
and verifies each transaction allowing for greater efficiencies, and significant speed
on private blockchains [14]. However, here is the main argument.
The company can choose who has read access to their blockchain’s transactions,
allowing for greater privacy than a public blockchain. A private blockchain is a better
fit for more traditional business. This means that the private chains allow one party
to have full control, and they will select a few nodes that are predetermined.
28 O. S. Saleh et al.
2.3.3 Consortium Blockchain
AConsortium blockchain is partially private. Consortium blockchain platforms have
many of the same advantages as a private blockchain but operate under the leadership
of a group instead of a single entity. This platform would be great for organizational
collaboration. A consortium chains provide many of the same benefits of the private
blockchain (efficiency and transaction privacy, etc.), without consolidating power
with only one party; Hyperledger is an example [13]. In summary, every Blockchain
network has different rules regarding what kind of assets it trades, and under which
conditions trading takes place. Those rules encoded into its software called the con-
sensus. The node in the Blockchain network is every device running the Blockchain
software and connected to the network [1, 23].
As mentioned earlier, blockchain classified into three options which are public
blockchain, private blockchain, and consortium blockchain.
2.4 Blockchain Characteristics
The blockchain technology made through different existing technologies such as
cryptography, mathematics, algorithms, and distributed consensus algorithms [22,
24, 25]. As such, the Blockchain has six key characteristics [13].
1. Decentralization. It means that the Blockchain does not have to rely on a single
centralized node which functions as a master node. Each node can record, store,
and update the ledger. Together they form the blockchain community of peer-to-
peer nodes.
2. Transparency. The block’s data recorded by each node and distributed among
other connected nodes are visible to each node, thus creating openness among
connected nodes.
3. Open Source. Most Blockchain systems are open to anyone, allowing anybody
to modify the code and technology in ways that best suit their needs. However,
this does not mean that anyone can edit a running blockchain solution. Making
any modification to a working solution means connected nodes agree to accept
the change, and it is only valid when connected nodes adopt the change.
4. Autonomy. As there are connected nodes, any changes happen once the majority
of nodes accept the change. It enforces good deeds from different nodes making
changes or intervention useless; other nodes will easily detect any attempt at
making any change.
5. Immutable. The records will be preserved forever, and cannot be changed unless
someone can take control of more than 51% nodes at the same time (i.e., a simple
majority).
6. Anonymity. Data is hashed and shared; being hashed makes transactions
somewhat anonymous.
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 29
3 Privacy Requirements for Blockchain
In the context of Blockchain Technology, privacy and confidentiality mean that the
data written to the blockchain and the identities of the parties involved are protected
[26]. Privacy and confidentiality in the blockchain still a challenge and open issue
[27, 28]. This claim also mentioned by several authors such as [19, 29, 30]. Privacy
was pointed out as a problem in the original paper of Bitcoin conducted by [22]
as there were no ways to protect the privacy of users. With a public blockchain, the
information stored in public ledger. And the transaction contains various information
such as the ID of the previous transaction, timestamp, participants address, trade
values, and signature of its sender [31]. Hence, there is a possibility of tracing the
transaction to extract the users’ physical identities or other additional information
by data mining [16]. Privacy in the blockchain divided into two types which are (1)
privacy of information and (2) privacy of the party [19]. Privacy of information is
related to the content of the message posted to the blockchain. The party may wish to
hide the content of themessage fromnetworkmembers.While the privacy of the party
is related to the identity of the party, who will be involved in the transaction in the
Blockchain [19]. The privacy requirements in the blockchain are studied by several
researchers [11, 19, 32, 33]. Hence, to protect privacy, the following requirements
should be considered.
The content of the transactions should be only known to their partakers;
• Transaction details are not visible to unauthorized third parties and the world at
large unless one of the counterparties has chosen to reveal that information; and
• Transaction details cannot be collected, analyzed, or matched with “off-
Blockchain” metadata to reveal any information about counterparties or transac-
tion details. By this, our definition encompasses the use of graph analysis, pattern
matching, and machine learning to construct a profile of a counterparty based on
the activities associated in the ledger [27, 28, 34]. The blockchain needs to satisfy
several requirements to protect privacy [35], and as follows:
1. The links between transactions should not be visible or discoverable.
2. The content of transactions is only known to their partakers [16].
3. The private or permissioned blockchain could set an access control policy. It
gives complete transparency of the blockchain data is not a problem.
The privacy requirements should be considered on two factors [16, 36, 37] and as
follows:
1. Identity Privacy: which means intractability between the transaction scripts and
the real identities of their partakers, as well as the transactional relationships
between users. Even if users apply random addresses (or pseudonyms) when
acting in the blockchain, they can only provide limited identity privacy.
2. Transaction Privacy: it means that specified users can only access the transaction
contents. Transaction privacy is the primary concern in the public blockchain.
In the next section, the security and privacy issues in the blockchain explored.
30 O. S. Saleh et al.
Various measures and techniques that can be used to achieve the security and the
privacy at each layer of blockchain investigated as well.
4 Security and Privacy Issues in Blockchain
Since all transactions in public blockchain are visible and open in the network, so the
blockchain is mainly vulnerable to leakage of transactional privacy [11]. The critical
evaluation parameter in any blockchain is how well the conditions of security and
privacy meet the requirements of blockchain. Hence, analyzing the security and
privacy issues of blockchain become a valuable research area. Security is defined
based on three main components which are confidentiality, integrity, and availability.
In blockchain context, privacymeans limits the access to the information through a set
of rules. Integrity means the information is accurate and trustworthy, and availability
means that the information is grantees to be accessed by authorized people. Privacy
is defined based on two components data privacy and user privacy [38].
As mentioned earlier, blockchain architecture includes several layers. Thus iden-
tifying the challenges that occur in each layer would be very important to be taken
into consideration. Encryptionmeasure can be used to achieve confidentiality in three
layers which are a smart contract, network, and data layer [38]. Twomeasures can be
used to achieve integrity, which is theMessage Authentication Code (MAC) and Sig-
nature Scheme. MAC used for achieving the integrity in three layers of blockchain,
which are a smart contract, network, and data layer.
Signature Scheme can be used to achieve integrity in both transaction and con-
sensus layers [38]. Availability made by various measures such as consensus, access
control, and protocols. Data privacy-preserving computation measure adopted for
achieving the data privacy and user privacy at the smart contract layer.
Access control measure used for achieving the data privacy, while blind signature
and ring signature used for achieving the anonymity (user privacy) at the consensus
layer. Zero-Knowledge Proofs and Mixing measures used for achieving both data
privacy and user privacy at the transaction layer. Access control measure used for
achieving the data privacy at the data layer, while IP Anonymity measure used for
achieving the privacy of user at the network layer [38]. Table 1 summarizes the
cryptographic measures that which adopted for achieving security and privacy of
information subjected to the blockchain layers.
5 Privacy and Security Measures Used in Blockchain
In this section, we provide a detailed discussion on a selection of techniques that can
be leveraged to enhance the security and privacy of existing and future blockchain
systems.
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 31
Table 1 Cryptographic measures subject to each layer
Blockchain
layer
Confidentiality Integrity Availability Data privacy User privacy
Smart
contract
Encryption MAC – Data privacy
preserving
computation
Identity privacy
preserving
computation
Consensus – Signature
scheme
Consensus Access control Blind or ring
signature
Transaction – Signature
scheme
Access
structure of
transactions
Zero-knowledge
proofs, mixing
techniques
Zero-knowledge
proofs
Network Encryption MAC Protocols – IP anonymity
Data Encryption MAC Access
control
Access control –
5.1 Mixing
Mixing measures was proposed by Chaum [39]. It aims to hide the identity of users
as well as the content of the communication. The architecture of mixing service is
clearly stated in Fig. 5.
Here the explanation of mixing by an example. Assume that we have two entities
sender and receiver and a message M is prepared to be delivered at address R. The
messagewill be encryptedwith the receiver public keyKR and appending the address
R. Then the intermediary’s public key KI is encrypted with the result and based on
the following formula:
KI (r0, KR(r1, M), R) → KR
(
r1,M
)
, R
where r0 and r1 random numbers which ensure that no message is transferred more
than once s we mentioned in the first place, Bitcoin’s blockchain doesn’t guarantee
Fig. 5 Mixing service architecture
32 O. S. Saleh et al.
obscurity for users: transactions use onymous addresses andmay be verified publicly,
so anyone will relate a user’s dealing with her alternative transactions by an easy
analysis of addresses she utilized in creating bitcoin exchanges. Additional seriously,
once the address of the dealing is coupled to the real-world identity of a user, it’s going
to cause the outflow of all her transactions. Thus, admixture services (or tumblers)
was designed to forestall users’ addresses from being coupled. Mixing, literally, it’s
a random exchange of user’s coins with alternative users’ coins, as a result, for the
observer, their possession of coins is obfuscated. However, these mixing services
don’t offer protection from coin thieving [40].
Mixcoinwas plannedbyBonneau et al. in 2014, that provides anonymous payment
in Bitcoin and bitcoin-like cryptocurrencies. To defend against passive adversaries,
Mixcoin extends the namelessness set to permit all users to combine coins at the
same time. To defend against active adversaries, Mixcoin provides namelessness the
same as ancient communication mixes. Additionally, Mixcoin uses associate degree
responsibleness mechanism to observed stealing, and it shows that users can use
Mixcoin rationally while not stealing bitcoins by orienting incentives [41].
5.2 Anonymous Signatures
This section will dive in discussing the two most important and typical anonymous
signature schemes which are group signature and ring signature.
Group signature is a cryptography theme which firstly proposed by [42]. Given a
bunch, any of its members will sign a message for the whole cluster anonymously
by exploitation her personal secret key, and any member with the cluster’s public
key will check and validate the generated signature and ensure that the signature
of some group member is employed to sign the message. The method of signature
verification reveals nothing regarding verity identity of the signer except themembers
of the cluster. Cluster signature encompasses a group manager who manages adding
group members, handling the event of disputes, together with revealing the first
signer. Within the blockchain system, we have a tendency to conjointly would like
a licensed entity to form and revoke the cluster and dynamically add new members
to the group and delete/revoke the membership of some participants from the group.
Since the group signature needs a bunch manager to line up the group, the cluster
signature is appropriate for syndicate blockchain.
Ring signature was proposed by [43] which shown in Fig. 6. It can succeed
anonymous through linguistic communication by any member of cluster users. The
term “ring signature” originates from the signature algorithmic program that uses
the ring-like structure. The ring signature is anonymous if it’s troublesome to work
out that member of the cluster uses his/her key to sign the message. Ring signatures
take issue from cluster signatures in 2 principal ways: 1st, during a ring signature
theme, the $64,000 identity of the signer can not be discovered within the event of a
dispute, since there’s no cluster manager during a ring signature. Second, any users
will group A “ring” by themselves while not further setup. Thus, the ring signature
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 33
Fig. 6 Ring signature process
is applicable to the general public blockchain. One in every one of the standard
applications of a hoop signature is CryptoNote [44]. It adopts ring signature to cover
the association between the sender’s addresses of transactions. Additional exactly,
CryptoNote constructs the sender’s public key with many alternative keys, so it is not
possible to spot World Health Organization truly sent (signed) the dealing. Thanks
to the utilization of ring signature, if the quantity of ring members is n, then the
likelihood that AN opponent might with success guess a true sender of dealing is
1/n.
Here is the working process of ring signature measure [43]. User A selects a set
of users (User0, User1, Usern) and creates a ring. Each user has a pubic key from
standard signature scheme such as ECDSA. User A signs a message with his/her
private key (SKs) and all the public keys (PK0, PK1, PKn) of the members in the
ring. The verifier knows that the message signed by one from the set but does know
the real singer. Hence, the ring signature provides anonymity for the signer.
5.3 Homomorphic Encryption (HE)
Homomorphic cryptography (HE) is a powerful cryptography. It will perform sure
kinds of computations directly on ciphertext and make sure that the operations per-
formed on the encrypted knowledge, once decrypting the computed results, can
generate identical results to those performed by constant operations on the plain-
text. There are many parts of homomorphic cryptosystems [45, 46]. One will use
homomorphic cryptography techniques to store knowledge over the blockchain with
no vital changes within the blockchain properties. This ensures that the informa-
tion on the blockchain is encrypted, addressing the privacy issues related to public
34 O. S. Saleh et al.
blockchains. The employment of homomorphic cryptography technique offers pri-
vacy protection and permits prepared access to encrypted knowledge over public
blockchain for auditing and different functions, like managing worker expenses.
Ethereum sensible contracts give homomorphic cryptography on knowledge hold on
in blockchain for larger management and privacy.
The working process of HE will be explained by the following scenario.
A and B are two main parameters. A has secret values (x1, x2,…, xn) and B has a
function F(.) In order for A and B to calculate F(x1,…,xn) together without leaking
the secret values.
E(.)/D(.) are the set of the homomorphic encryption system. A can send encrypted
inputs E(x1),…,E(xn)to B. After that, a normal computation on the encrypted text
should be performed and the result send to A. A will get f (x1,…,xn) after the decryp-
tion. The privacy of blockchain will be protected in the implementation of homo-
morphic cryptographic including both the Pedersen commitment scheme and Paillier
cryptosystem [16].
5.4 Attribute-Based Encryption (ABE)
Attribute-based encryption (ABE) is a cryptographic method. The conception of
attribute-based cryptographywas planned in 2005 [47]with one authority. Since then,
variety of extensions are planned to the baseline ABE, as well as ABE with multiple
authorities to come up with users’ personal keys together [48, 49]. ABE schemes
that support impulsive predicates [50, 50]. Attribute-based cryptography is incredibly
powerful nonetheless few applications thus far deploy it thanks to the shortage of
understanding of each core ideas and economical implementation. ABE has not
nonetheless been deployed in any type on a blockchain for the data processing thus
far. In 2011, a localized ABE theme was planned [49] to use ABE on a blockchain.
For instance, on a blockchain, permissions may well be delineated by the possession
of access tokens. All nodes within the network, that have an exact token issued to
them, are going to be granted access to the special rights and privileges related to the
token. The token provides a method of following who has bound attributes Associate
in Nursingd such tracking ought to beworn out an recursive and consistent fashion by
the approved entity that distributes the token. Tokens are often viewed as badges that
represent attributes or qualifications and may be used as non-transferable quantifiers
of name or attributes.
5.5 Secure Multi-party Computation
The multi-party computation (MPC) model defines a multi-party protocol to permit
them to hold out some computation together over their non-public knowledge inputs
while not violating their input privacy, such that associate degree soul learns nothing
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 35
concerning the input of an authentic party however the output of the joint computa-
tion. The primary large-scale preparation of MPC was in 2008 for associate degree
actual auction downside in Denmark [51]. In recent years, MPC has been utilized in
blockchain systems to shield users’ privacy [52]. Designed and enforced secure mul-
tiparty computation protocols on the Bitcoin system in 2014. They made protocols
for secure multiparty lotteries with none sure authority. Their protocols are ready to
guarantee fairness for honest users despite however dishonest ones behave. If a user
violates or interferes with the protocol then she becomes a loser and her bitcoins are
transported to the honest users. A decentralized SMP computation platform, referred
to as Enigma, is projected in 2015 by [53]. By exploitation a sophisticated version
of SMP computation, Enigma employs a verifiable secret sharing theme to ensure
the privacy of its process model. Also, Enigma encodes shared secret knowledge
employing a changed distributed hash table for economical storage. Moreover, it
leverages associate degree external blockchain as a corruption-resistant recording of
events and also the regulator of the peer-to-peer network for identitymanagement and
access management. Like the Bitcoin system, Enigma provides autonomous man-
agement and protection of private knowledge whereas eliminating the requirement
and dependency of a sure third party.
As mentioned earlier, MPC is a cryptographic protocol that used for emulating a
trusted party. MPCwould be very benefit to be used in systemwith no trusted parties.
MPC has two main goals which are the correctness and security [54]. Its working
can be shown based on the following example.
Let say P1, P2,…,Pn are mutually suspicious. Each party has a secret input (x1,
x2, xn). Hence, the joint function y can be computed as follows:
y = f (x1, x2, . . . , xn)
The correctness goal will be achieved through that everyone can computes y =
f (x1, x2,…,xn) and the security goal will be achieved through that nothing but the
output is revealed.
5.6 Non-interactive Zero-Knowledge (NIZK) Proof
Zero-knowledge proofs are another cryptographic technology that has powerful
privacy-preserving which was proposed in the early 1980s [55, 56]. The concept
of this protocol was proposed by Blum. The goal of NIZK is to preserve the pri-
vacy. It aims to provide the prove the correctness of data without leaking addition
information. A zero-knowledge protocol can be explained by an example.
Let say we have two parties the prover P and the verifier V. The prover has
a statement which he wants to prove to verifier. Hence, the working process of
zero-knowledge proof will be based on the following steps:
36 O. S. Saleh et al.
1. The prover will compute a proof for the statement and then send the proof to the
verifier.
2. The verifier will choose a question and send it to the prover.
3. The prover then calculates the answer for the question and send it to the verifier.
Hence, the verifier by using the answer will check whether Prover really knows
the statement. Figure shows an interactive zero-knowledge protocol between
prover and verifier.
NIZK proof system can be represented according the following formulas [16].
(P, V ) are the prover and verifier, the NIZK proof system for language L when L
⊆ NP with k where k is a security parameter and if it meets two properties which are
completeness and soundness.
The completeness occurs for any input x ∈ L and its witness w and polynomial
p(.)
Pr [V (R, x, P(R, x,w)) = 1] ≥ 1−1/P(x)
The soundness occurs for any input x /∈ L and algorithms P* and polynomial p(.)
Pr
[
V
(
R, x, P∗(R, x,)
) = 1
]
< 1 − 1/P(x)
5.7 The Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) Based Smart
Contracts
TEE is an execution atmosphere if it provides a totally isolated environment for
application execution, that effectively prevents different software package appli-
cations and operative system(s) from meddling with and learning the state of the
applying running in it. The Intel software package Guard eXtensions (SGX) maybe
a representative technology to implement a TEE. As an example, Ekiden [18] may
be an SGX primarily based resolution for confidentiality-preserving sensible con-
tracts. Ekiden separates computation from the accord. It performs sensible contract
computation in TEEs on calculating nodes off-chain, then uses a foreign attestation
protocol to validate the execution correctness of calculating nodes on-chain.
Intel® SGXmeasure is a hardware-based solution which provides data protection.
It is a platformwith built-inCPU instructions that permit the access to the data.Access
to the data will be denied or disabled if the code is altered or tampered.
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 37
5.8 Discussion
Three main points have to be taken into consideration in order to achieve security
and privacy in the blockchain.
(1) No single technologymay be a cure for the security and privacy of Blockchain.
(2) There’s no technology that has no defects or is ideal altogether aspects. Once
we add new technology to a posh system, it perpetually causes alternative issues
or new form(s) of attacks and (3) there’s perpetually a trade-off between security-
privacy and potency. We must always advocate those techniques that improve the
protection and privacy of blockchain It is clearly stated in the previous sections
that blockchain technology classified into three types: (1) public blockchain, Private
blockchain and Consortium blockchain. Privacy and confidentiality are still a chal-
lenge in the blockchain. Hence, this research comes into address the privacy issues
and analyzed the solutions that would be used in order to preserve and maintain the
privacy. This research addresses several measures that can be used for preserving the
privacy in blockchain and as shown in Table 2.
It is very important to maintain the privacy at all levels such as data level, trans-
action level and network level. Privacy can be maintained very well in permis-
sioned blockchain because of that (1) running private blockchain is easier that public
blockchain, (2) easy to change the rules and revert the transactions, (3) the validators
are known so any risk of a 51% attack arising from some miner collusion does not
apply, (4) transactions are cheaper and since they only need to be verified by a few
nodes that can be trusted to have very high processing power, and do not need to be
verified by ten thousand laptops, (5) Nodes can be trusted to be very well-connected
and (6) private blockchain can provide a greater level of, well, privacy because the
read permissions are restricted. Privacy in private blockchain can bemaintained using
different measures and it is based on the platform. Hyperledger fabric is a private
permissioned blockchain. From all the above privacy techniques which mentioned
earlier, Hyperledger uses attribute-based encryption of data in which can restrict data
to a user based on user’s attribute. Hyperledger fabric can also zero knowledge proof
in which verifier can verify issuer without getting access to issuer data. Asmentioned
above that in Hyperledger fabric we can restrict access between user of same organi-
zations we can create private data side DB in which only those user will have access
which are linked to the transaction. Hyperledger fabric ledger consist of world state
(Database) and Transaction log (Blockchain), there is public ledger for all permis-
sioned participants but in public ledger there are only hashes not actual data. World
state is maintained so reading data doesn’t involve traversing the entire blockchain.
Each peer can recreate the world state from the transaction log. Private data and
Attribute Based Encryption together give enough flexibility to model a non-trivial
business processwithout revealing confidential information. Hyperledger fabric adds
certain layers of privacy for user’s data, First, it gives access to only permissioned
user of the network, then can secure user’s actions using attribute based encryption.
Moreover, it uses zero knowledge proof where authentication is required between
user without giving data of one user to another. In order to maintain the privacy at
38 O. S. Saleh et al.
Table 2 Privacy measures in blockchain
Techniques Application Advantages Disadvantages
Mixing MixCoin It is very helpful in
preventing the users’
addresses from being
linked
There might risk of
leakage of user
privacy due to the
centralized services
Group signature JUCIX The ability to hide the
signer identity among
a group of users
Trusted third party is
needed to act as a
manager
Ring signature CryptoNote,
Ethereum
The ability to hide the
signer identity among
a group of users and
hence trusted the third
party is not required
The signer identity
can not be revealed in
the event of a dispute
ABE None Data confidentiality
and fine-grained
access control can be
achieved
simultaneously
Need to resolve the
issuance and
revocation of attribute
certificate in the
distributed
environment
HE Ethereum Privacy-preserving
can be achieved by
performing a
computation on the
ciphertext
The computational
efficiency of the
complex function is
very low
SMPC Engima The ability to carry
out some computation
through multi-party
without violating the
input privacy
Efficiency is low in
the complex functions
NIZK Zcash Users can prove their
balance easily
without reveling the
account balance
Less efficient
TEE based solutions Ekiden, Enigma The privacy of smart
contract can be
protected by running
them in TEE
Need to resolve the
attacks on SGX
data level, end to end encryption can be used while preserving the privacy at net-
work level could be through network level configurations as well as using private
channels. Preserving the privacy at truncation level could be through implementing
access control measures. In case of public blockchain, and based on the analyzing
we made for the existing measures and techniques, different encryption schemes for
both identity privacy and transaction privacy can be used and based on the use case.
Ethereum adopts a couple of measures for maintaining the privacy which are Zero
Knowledge-based and Mixers.
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 39
From what has been presented, it can conclude that the measures of privacy can
be successfully employed based on the blockchain platform and the use case.
6 Performance Evaluation of Blockchains
Ethereum and Hyperledger are the most dominant blockchain platforms. Smart con-
tract and Crypto-currency are an example of the application in Ethereum. The smart
contract is executed in Ethereum Virtual Machine (EVM) using Solidity Language
and Ethash (PoW) consensus algorithm. In Hyperledger, the smart contract is exe-
cuted using Dockers and Golang and Java languages, and Practical Byzantine Fault
Tolerance (PBFT) consensus algorithm [14]. Authors [57] conducted a performance
analysis of Ethereum and Hyperledger.
Hyperledger Fabric consistently performs better than Ethereum both in term of
throughput and latency. This researchwill dive inmore details regarding themeasures
of the private security mechanism of Hyperledger Fabric. The privacy protection
measures of Hyperledger Fabric will be divided into four measures:
1. Using symmetric cryptography and zero-knowledge proof. This is for several rea-
sons such as separating the transaction data from on-chain records and protecting
privacy from the underlying algorithm.
2. Using the digital certificate management service. This is for guarantees the
legitimacy of the organization on the blockchain.
3. Using the design ofmulti-channel. This is for separating the information between
different channels.
4. Privacy data collection. This is for satisfying the need for the isolation of privacy
data between different organizations within the same channel.
The channel and privacy data collection are themost typical methods. The channel
is dedicated to allowing the data on the channel to be isolated separately and to the
blockchain privacy protection. The ledger is shared by the peer on the same channel
and the recognition of the channel is needed to be obtained by the transaction peer
before it can join the channel and transact with others. The private data collection
(PDC) is a group of organizations that are permitted to store private data on a channel.
The data stored contains the private data and the hash value of the private data [58].
In the Hyperledger Fabric, the processing of privacy data is divided
into two scenarios: new channels are required once the whole dealings and
ledger should be unbroken strictly confidential to the skin members of the channel;
when the transaction info and ledger have to be compelled to be shared among some
organizations, a number of them are going to be able to see all the dealings informa-
tion, alternative organizations have to be compelled to recognize the prevalence of
this dealings to verify the genuineness of the transaction, a non-public informa-
tion assortment ought to be established during this case. Additionally, as a result
of non-public information is propagated through peer-to-peer instead of block, the
40 O. S. Saleh et al.
privacy information assortment is employed once the dealings data should be con-
fidential for the sorting service peer. The blockchain dealings method involving the
privacy information assortment is as follows [59, 60].
Blockchain transaction process involving the privacy data collection based on
several steps and as follows:
1. The offer request is submitted by the client application to call the chain code
function to the endorsement peer of the private data set authorization and through
the provisional domain, the private data is sent.
2. The transaction is simulated by the endorsement peer and the private data is
stored in a local temporary repository in the peer. The gossip protocol is used by
the endorsement peer in order to disseminate the private data to the authorized
peer.
3. The public data is returned by the endorsement peer including the hash value of
the private data key-value pair.
4. The transaction is submitted to the sorting service peer by the client application
and then distributing the sorting result to each block.
5. The authorized peer can use the collection policy when submitting a block in
order to determine if it is authorized to view private data.
7 Conclusion
In this research, we identified and discussed the cryptographic algorithms used in
the blockchain. In addition to that, we identified the privacy requirements for the
blockchain as well as the privacy techniques that can be used to manage the privacy
in the blockchain. Our findings show that there are many techniques which can be
used for enhancing the privacy in the blockchains. Finally, we discussed the privacy
process in the Hyperledger platform and the measures that can be used for ensuring
its privacy.
Acknowledgements Authors would like to sincerely thank Universiti Utara Malaysia (UUM),
International Islamic University Malaysia (IIUM), Malaysia and Ministry of Higher Education,
Iraq for supporting this research.
References
1. Grech, A. and Camilleri, A. F.: Blockchain in Education. In: Inamorato dos Santos, A. (ed.)
EUR 28778 EN (2017). https://www.doi.org/10.2760/60649
2. Ackerman, A.,Chang, A., Diakun-Thibault, N., Forni, L., Landa, F., Mayo, J., van Riezen,
R.: Blockchain and Health IT: Algorithms, Privacy and Data (August 8, 2016). Project Phar-
mOrchard of MIT’s Experimental Learning “MIT FinTech: Future Commerce.”, White Paper
August 2016. Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209023
https://www.doi.org/10.2760/60649
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3209023
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 41
3. Duan, Z, Mao, H., Chen, Z., Bai, X., Hu, K., Talpin, J.-P.: Formal modeling and verification of
blockchain system, vol. 86, pp. 231–235 (2018)
4. Wu, J., Tran, N.K.: Application of blockchain technology in sustainable energy systems: an
overview. Sustain 10(9), 1–22 (2018)
5. Cui, G., Shi, K., Qin, Y., Liu, L., Qi, B., Li, B.: Application of block chain in multi-level
demand response reliable mechanism. In: 2017 3rd International Conference on Information
Management (ICIM), pp. 337–341 (2017)
6. Fukumitsu, M., Hasegawa, S., Iwazaki, J., Sakai, M., Takahashi, D.: A proposal of a secure
P2P-type storage scheme by using the secret sharing and the blockchain. In: Proceedings of
the International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications (AINA),
pp. 803–810 (2017)
7. Yuan, Y., Wang, F.Y.: Towards blockchain-based intelligent transportation systems. In: IEEE
International Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITSC), pp. 2663–2668 (2016)
8. Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H.N., Wang, H.: Blockchain challenges and opportunities: a survey.
Work Pap.–2016, December 2016
9. Baliga, A.: Understanding blockchain consensus models. Whitepaper, April, pp. 1–14 (2017)
10. Zheng, Z., Xie, S., Dai, H., Chen, X., Wang, H.: An overview of blockchain technology: archi-
tecture, consensus, and future trends. In: Proceeding of 2017 IEEE 6th International Congress
on Big Data (BigData Congress), pp. 557–564 (2017)
11. Prashanth Joshi, A., Han, M., Wang, Y.: A survey on security and privacy issues of blockchain
technology. Math. Found. Comput 1(2), 121–147 (2018)
12. Le, T., Mutka, M.W.: Capchain: a privacy preserving access control framework based on
blockchain for pervasive environments. In: Proceedings of 2018 IEEE International Conference
on Smart Computing (SMARTCOMP), pp. 57–64 (2018)
13. Lin, I.-C., Liao, T.-C.: A survey of blockchain security issues and challenges. Int. J. Netw.
Secur. 1919(55), 653–659 (2017)
14. Dinh, T.T.A., Wang, J., Chen, G., Liu, R., Ooi, B.C., Tan, K.-L.: Blockbench: a framework for
analyzing private blockchains. In: Proceedings of the 2017 ACM International Conference on
Management of Data. ACM (2017)
15. Fabian, B., Ermakova, T., Krah, J., Lando, E., Ahrary, N.: Adoption of security and privacy
measures in bitcoin–stated and actual behavior (2018). Available at SSRN:https://ssrn.com/
abstract=3184130
16. Feng, Q., He, D., Zeadally, S., Khan, M.K., Kumar, N.: A survey on privacy protection in
blockchain system. J. Netw. Comput. Appl. 126, 45–58 (2019)
17. Duan,B., Zhong,Y., Liu,D.: Education application of blockchain technology: learningoutcome
and meta-diploma. In: Proceedings of the International Conference on Parallel and Distributed
Systems (ICPADS), December 2017, pp. 814–817 (2018)
18. Cheng, R., Zhang, F., Kos, J., He, W., Hynes, N., Johnson, N., ... & Song, D.: Ekiden: A
platform for confidentiality-preserving, trustworthy, and performant smart contracts. In 2019
IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P), pp. 185–200. IEEE (2019,
June)
19. Axon, L., Goldsmith, M., Creese, S.: Privacy requirements in cybersecurity applications of
blockchain, vol. 111, 1st edn. Elsevier (2018)
20. Ruffing, T., Moreno-sanchez, P., Kate, A.: CoinShuffle: practical decentralized coin mixing for
bitcoin—bookmetrix analysis. In: European Symposium on Research in Computer Security
(ESORICS), vol. 8713, pp. 1–15 (2014)
21. Chen, J., Yao, S., Yuan, Q., He, K., Ji, S., Du, R.: CertChain: public and efficient certificate
audit based on blockchain for TLS connections. In: Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM, April
2018, pp. 2060–2068 (2018)
22. Nakamoto, S.: Bitcoin: a peer-to-peer electronic cash system, p. 9. Www.Bitcoin.Org (2008)
23. Turkanovic,M.,Holbl,M.,Kosic,K.,Hericko,M.,Kamisalic,A.: EduCTX: ablockchain-based
higher education credit platform. IEEE Access 6, 1–20 (2018)
24. Gervais, A., Karame, G.O., Wüst, K., Ritzdorf, H.: On the security and performance of proof
of work blockchains Vasileios Glykantzis Srdjaň Capkun. Bitcoin.org (2017)
https://ssrn.com/abstract=3184130
http://Www.Bitcoin.Org
42 O. S. Saleh et al.
25. Garay, J.A.: The bitcoin backbone protocol : analysis and applications the bitcoin backbone
protocol : analysis and applications, June 2017, pp. 1–44 (2015)
26. Yang, D., Gavigan, J., Hearn, Z.W.: Survey of confidentiality and privacy preserving
technologies for blockchains, pp. 1–32 (2016)
27. Stuart, P.: Confidentiality in Private Blockchain (August 8, 2016). Project “Kadena: Kuro -
Private Blockchain.”, White Paper August 2016. Available at SSRN:https://www.kadena.io/
28. Chang, P., Yang, C., Yang, C., Hwang, M.: An academic transcript system embedded with
blockchains (2018)
29. Ouaddah, A., Elkalam, A.A., Ouahman, A.A.: Europe and MENA Cooperation Advances in
Information and Communication Technologies, vol. 520, pp. 523–533. Springer, Cham (2017)
30. Ikeda, K.: Security and privacy of blockchain and quantum computation, 1st ed., vol. 111.
Elsevier (2018)
31. Bhowmik, D., Feng, T.: The multimedia blockchain: a distributed and tamper-proof media
transaction framework. In: International Conference on Digital Signal Processing (DSP), 2017
August, November 2017
32. Fan, K., Ren, Y., Wang, Y., Li, H., Yang, Y.: Blockchain-based efficient privacy preserving and
data sharing scheme of content-centric network in 5G. IET Commun. 12(5), 527–532 (2018)
33. Colloquium, J.N., Zrt, B.E.: Blockchain: solving the privacy and research availability tradeoff
for EHR data. In: IEEE 30th Jubilee Neumann Colloquium, pp. 135–140 (2017)
34. Ali, A., Afzal, M.M.: Confidentiality in blockchain. Int. J. Eng. Sci. Invent. 7(1), 50–52 (2018)
35. Wang, R., He, J., Liu, C., Li, Q., Tsai, W.T., Deng, E.: A privacy-aware PKI system based
on permissioned blockchains. In: Proceedings of IEEE International Conference on Software
Engineering and Service Science (ICSESS) November 2018, pp. 928–931 (2019)
36. Chen, Y., Xie, H., Lv, K., Wei, S., Hu, C.: DEPLEST: a blockchain-based privacy-preserving
distributed database toward user behaviors in social networks. Inf. Sci. (NY) 501, 100–117
(2019)
37. Casino, F., Dasaklis, T.K., Patsakis, C.: A systematic literature review of blockchain-based
applications: current status, classification and open issues. Telematics Inform 36, 55–81 (2018)
38. Raikwar, M., Gligoroski, D., Kralevska, K.: SoK of used cryptography in blockchain (2019)
39. Chaum, D.: Untraceable electronic mail, return addresses and digital pseudonyms. In Secure
Electronic Voting, pp. 211–219. Springer, Boston, MA (2003)
40. Zhang, R., Xue, R., Liu, L.: Security and privacy on blockchain, 1(1) (2019)
41. Bonneau, J., Narayanan, A., Miller, A., Clark, J., Kroll, J. A., & Felten, E. W. (2014, March).
Mixcoin: Anonymity for Bitcoin with accountable mixes. In International Conference on
Financial Cryptography and Data Security, pp. 486–504. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg
42. Chaum, D., VanHeyst, E.: Group signatures. In: Lecture Notes in Computer Science (Including
Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), vol.
547, No. iii, pp. 257–265. LNCS (1991)
43. Wood, G., et al.: How to leak a secret. J. Br. Blockchain Assoc., vol. 2018, November 25, 2016,
p. Github site to create pdf, 2016
44. Van Saberhagen, N.: CryptoNote v 2.0. Self-published, pp. 1–20 (2013)
45. Logarithms, D.: A public key cryptosystem and a signature based on discrete logarithms, vol.
I, pp. 10–18 (1976)
46. Abidin, A.S.Z., Yusuff, R.M., Bakar, N.A., Awi, M.A., Zulkifli, N., Muslimen, R.: Public-key
cryptosystems based on composite degree residuosity classes. In: Lecture Notes in Electrical
Engineering (LNEE), vol. 130, pp. 285–299 (2013)
47. Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Fuzzy identity-based encryption BT. In: Advances in Cryptology
(EUROCRYPT 2005), vol. 3494, Chapter 27, p. 557 (2005)
48. Chase, M.: Multi-authority attribute based encryption. In: Proceedings of the 4th Conference
Theory Cryptography, vol. 4392, pp. 515–534 (2007)
49. Lewko, A., Waters, B.: Decentralizing attribute-based encryption, vol. 2, No. subaward 641,
pp. 568–588 (2011)
https://www.kadena.io/
Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains 43
50. Garg, S., Gentry, C., Halevi, S., Sahai, A., Waters, B.: Attribute-based encryption for circuits
from multilinear maps. In: Lecture Notes in Computer Science (Including Subseries Lecture
Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in Bioinformatics), vol. 8043, PART 2,
pp. 479–499. LNCS (2013)
51. Bogetoft, P., et al: Secure multiparty computation goes live. In: Lecture Notes in Computer
Science (Including Subseries Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence and Lecture Notes in
Bioinformatics), vol. 5628, pp. 325–343. LNCS (2009)
52. Andrychowicz, M., Dziembowski, S., Malinowski, D., Mazurek, Ł.: Secure multiparty com-
putations on bitcoin. In: Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy,
pp. 443–458 (2014)
53. Srichaiyo,T.,Hjertén, S.: Enigma: decentralized computationplatformwith guaranteedprivacy.
J. Liq. Chromatogr 12(5), 809–825 (2015)
54. Benhamouda, F., Halevi, S., Halevi, T.: Supporting private data on Hyperledger fabric with
secure multiparty computation. IBM J. Res. Dev. 63(2), 1–8 (2019)
55. Goldwasser, S.,Micali, S., Rackoff, C.: The knowledge complexity of interactive proof systems.
SIAM J. Comput. 18(1), 186–208 (2005)
56. Essaf, F.: Privacy protection issues in blockchain technology, pp. 124–131 (2019)
57. Pongnumkul, S., Siripanpornchana, C., Thajchayapong, S.: Performance analysis of pri-
vate blockchain platforms in varying workloads. In: 2017 26th International Conference on
Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN), pp. 1–6. IEEE (July, 2017)
58. Ma, C., Kong, X., Lan, Q., Zhou, Z.: The privacy protection mechanism of Hyperledger fabric
and its application in supply chain finance. Cybersecurity 2(1), 15 (2019)
59. Androulaki, E., et al.: Hyperledger fabric: a distributed operating system for permissioned
blockchains. In: Proceedings of the Thirteenth EuroSys Conference, No. 1. ACM (2018)
60. Vukolić, M.: Rethinking permissioned blockchains. In: Proceedings of the ACMWorkshop on
Blockchain, Cryptocurrencies and Contracts (BCC), pp. 3–7 (2017)
	 Practical Privacy Measures in Blockchains
	1 Introduction
	2 Blockchain Architecture
	2.1 Blockchain Structure
	2.2 Blockchain Working Process
	2.3 Blockchain Types
	2.4 Blockchain Characteristics
	3 Privacy Requirements for Blockchain
	4 Security and Privacy Issues in Blockchain
	5 Privacy and Security Measures Used in Blockchain
	5.1 Mixing
	5.2 Anonymous Signatures
	5.3 Homomorphic Encryption (HE)
	5.4 Attribute-Based Encryption (ABE)
	5.5 Secure Multi-party Computation
	5.6 Non-interactive Zero-Knowledge (NIZK) Proof
	5.7 The Trusted Execution Environment (TEE) Based Smart Contracts
	5.8 Discussion
	6 Performance Evaluation of Blockchains
	7 Conclusion
	References