Theory Game as Priority Area of Researches for Development of Blockchain Technology
Theory Game as Priority Area of Researches for 
Development of  Blockchain Technology 
Saltykov S.A., Rusyaeva E.Yu. 
V. A. Trapeznikov Institute of Control Sciences of Russian Academy of Sciences
Moscow, Russia 
rusyaeva@ipu.ru, ssaltykov@mail.ru 
Abstract—It is shown that game theory with imperfect 
information «cover» the most of the deep challenges facing 
blockchain technology. Various challenges of this technology are 
analyzed and allocated main of them. For each of critical 
challenges, it considered in what measure the answer to him 
connected with the need of creation of new scientific results for 
some sections of game theory. The conclusion is drawn that an 
essential part of the deep challenges of a blockchain it is possible 
to reduce to a game-theoretic design of a situation of multiagency 
interaction. In this case, the consensus of users a blockchain 
system concerning the reliability of any transaction established. 
Keywords— blockchain; distributed registers; theory game; 
establishment of consensus; decentralization; scalability; 
multiagent systems 
I. INTRODUCTION
In this article, we will consider prospects and abilities to 
integrate one of the types of the distributed ledgers, blockchain 
technology, with some directions of game theory for their 
mutual development. In the analysis of the international 
researches on this subject before us, there were some questions. 
On the one hand, in some works, it is said [1, 2] that the 
blockchain represents a synthesis of cryptography and game 
theory. That is, authors of these researches consider that if to 
allocate two the components which are most significantly 
characterizing a blockchain, then the game theory will appear 
among them. Then it turns out that the game theory role in 
creation and development of a blockchain is enormous. 
On the other hand, there is a number of the scientific works 
leading including, among the researches of the general, survey 
character in service Google Academy devoted to blockchain 
technology in general and the challenges facing this 
technology. The role of game theory isn't mentioned in them in 
general [3, 4] or discussed only casually [2]. 
Thus, it is possible to conclude that at the moment at a 
blockchain community there is no consensus opinion on a 
game theory role in a blockchain. But what true situation? 
Perhaps, specialists in a operations research it intends lobby a 
game theory role to give weight to the studies, and real practice 
of a blockchain perfectly does without game-theoretic 
constructions? Or all on the contrary, and the blockchain 
industry desperately needs the breakthrough ideas in game 
theory? These breaks can become the guarantee of further 
successful strategic development a blockchain industry, but 
still ordinary it is challenging to realize blockchain 
programmers as the problem roots too deeply? What detailed 
description of the essence of why the role of game theory is 
high? The blockchain industry needs all game theory in general 
or its some concrete sections and why? 
We will try to give answers to these questions in our 
research. We consider that for this purpose it is necessary for 
details, without abstracting from concrete technical 
information, to analyze the profound challenges standing 
before a blockchain industry. Further, it is required to show, 
how correctly the game theory in what measure it helps to 
answer it`s connected with the answer to each of separate 
challenges.  
Once again we will emphasize that the understanding of 
technical nuances even, at least, at the primary level, is 
necessary for the analysis here: without them, it is possible to 
miss the most important. The "flat," reductive picture can give 
the incorrect answer about a game theory role.  
Therefore in this article, we will pay special attention to 
essentially important technical details a blockchain industry. 
We consider that such detailed justifications so far in literature 
aren't enough. For example, in work where there is a review of 
challenges [3], aren't distinguished main from them, and 
connection of challenges with game theory isn't specified in 
general. In other papers, there is the thesis about the connection 
between game theory and a blockchain [2] but isn't proved at 
what measure it is present.  
Besides, it is indicated the connection between blockchain 
and game theory out of a context of all standing challenges 
before the industry. Such a thesis looks taken out of a context, 
and from it, game theory role "proportions" aren't clear.  
To avoid these things, we will try to stretch a complete 
thread from those external conditions in which there is a 
blockchain industry, and its internal contradictions, the 
dynamic of its development, to a real role of new results in 
game theory in the strategic development of a blockchain 
industry.  
Thus, we will define whether researches on game theory 
(and according to what her sections) are a priority for 
development of such important element of digital economy as 
the distributed ledger in general and a blockchain in particular. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
II. BLOCKCHAIN AND GAME THEORY: ABILITIES TO INTEGRATE 
To resolve the problem of “blockage,” or rupture of a cycle 
at certain points, the matrix of distribution resources can be 
used. P-direction (vertical) of the matrix stands for the list of 
all research scopes having Higher Attestation Commission 
passports. It contains about 5 thousand names. This quantity 
approximately corresponds to the number of research 
laboratories in our country. The other axis – N (horizontal) – 
measures the stages of the life cycle of innovations formulated 
by proprietary typology [1,2]. So, as a result, we will receive 
the following columns: 1) fundamentally searching, 2) oriented 
radically, 3) declaratively applied, 4) conditionally applied 
with an endless commercialization potential and 5) 
provisionally applied with high commercialization potential. 
On the whole, we receive the matrix of 5 thousand lines and 
five columns containing 25 thousand cells.  
Further, the topics of research works of all laboratories in 
the country are analyzed, which is about 7-10 thousand. The 
task is to divide the 10 thousand questions between 25 
thousand “sections.” For this distribution, it is necessary to 
identify each value at matrix axes. 
We will assume that it is possible to refer topics of 
laboratory researches to a specific area of research scopes from 
the Higher Attestation Commission passport. Thus it becomes 
possible to define a “line” to place the topic of a laboratory. 
The second step is to define the “column” in the matrix, for 
what the author's method used.  
III. INNOVATIVE CYCLE STAGE IDENTIFICATION METHOD FOR 
SUBJECTS OF SCIENTIFIC LABORATORIES RESEARCHES 
According to Vitalik Buterin, the creator of the Ethereum 
scalability, safety and privacy [3].  
We will show that problems with scalability in many 
aspects result from the need for interoperability of blockchains 
and imperfections of the most often applied way of verification 
of transactions – Proof-of-work. In turn, questions about the 
safety of blockchains are also in many aspects caused by this 
way of confirmation of operations: it is the reason that lies on a 
surface and often discussed. These are threats of centralization 
of a blockchain and, as a result, copying of its transactions, the 
attacks "double spending," etc. 
That is, in this section, we will prove that if to look 
connected among themselves. Also, they are in many respects 
determined by the need of the solution of questions of the 
interaction of blockchains with each other and design of new, 
more perfect ways of verification of transactions in a 
blockchain [3]. 
We will in detail consider two "well-
them.  
 
Fig. 1. Challenges for a blockchain 
 
A. Challenges Scalability. Expenses of resources  
We will consider a scalability challenge. Now transactions 
often are confirmed too long. The total number of transactions 
which can be written down in a blockchain in the unit of time 
isn't enough so that millions of users used this actual 
blockchain. Also, electric power costs of mining (production) 
of blocks of a chain of transactions are at the moment unfairly 
big. 
If to try an essential part of processes of life of society as it 
is often told in advertising slogans, "to transfer to a 
blockchain," then the blockchain platform won't be able to 
function. Transactions will be carried out unacceptably slowly, 
the waiting list for verification of transactions will quickly 
grow, and they are carrying out commissions will be 
unacceptably high. Besides, expenses of the electric power will 
be just disproportionate to the public benefit brought by such 
blockchain. Already now, for example, the network of bitcoin 
consumes more electric power, than some countries. And this 
with the fact that the bitcoin hasn't managed to become the 
standard blockchain platform not only yet, but also even 
adequate means of implementation of payments. 
In what one of the main reasons for these problems? It is in 
many respects in the most often used way of verification of 
transactions – Proof-of-Work ("the proof of work"). 
Initially, the idea of the proof of work as the way of the 
choice of the miner was breakthrough and very effectively 
worked in the network of bitcoin. But approximately in a 
decade mining has rested against the technologically caused 
ceiling. With the growth of computing power of network 
complexity of a task of selection of a hash everything increases 
(as it is necessary to select a smaller hash), and energy 
consumption grows. To cover this cost, miners increase the 
commissions of transactions, and at the smaller commissions, 
the money transfer can go several days and more. 
Well-  
 
Scalability (expenses 
of resources and 
slowness) 
Safety 
Privacy 
Establishment 
of consensus 
Interoperability 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Besides, because of growth of computing complexity of 
mining, it isn't favorable to ordinary users of personal 
computers to participate in drilling anymore, and he is carried 
out now by some of the huge pools (associations) of miners. 
And it leads to the threat of centralization of a network with all 
that it implies. 
On a twist of fate, the mining which is thought up avoiding 
centralization and has brought to it, eventually. In this aspect, it 
becomes clear that "cosmetic" changes like increase in the size 
of the block and removing of information to a part out of limits 
of a blockchain won't solve a problem as it roots like mining. 
What can be the adequate answer to such challenges? We 
will consider him below; for now, we continue consideration of 
a challenge of scalability. 
B. Challenge scalability. Interoperability 
Another aspect of problems of scalability is connected 
about Interoperability of blockchains, that is, with a possibility 
of their effective interaction. Here the question is raised so: or 
there will be a one, and the only blockchain which has won a 
competition and became a blockchain platform by default for 
digitalization of all aspects of life or there will be a big set of 
blockchains of different function between which it is necessary 
to carry out interaction. 
Both common sense and experience of the IT industry 
prompt that one blockchain for all and all are from the area of a 
fantasy: on the Internet, there is too no fact that the only 
website, but also even completely dominating company. 
Therefore, sooner or later different blockchains should 
"communicate" with each other. And this necessary condition 
for successful scaling. 
C. Challenge safety 
We will pass to safety challenges. The main danger to a 
blockchain consisted of a possibility of his capture by 
malefactors and considered that it is easier to occupy the 
centralized network than decentralized. The fact that the danger 
of centralization results from the nature of mining has shown 
above. Moreover, if we eliminate this vulnerability, and we 
will change a way of verification of transactions to "the proof 
of a share" (more detailed it will be considered below), then 
one security concerns will be replaced with others: when using 
Proof-of-Stake the network is subject to the attack "nothing on 
stake". That is, the wrong choice not only the way of 
verification of transactions but also even his parameters will be 
a severe threat to security. Therefore the conclusion of the 
safety of blockchain platforms to a new level is in many 
respects caused by designing of an effective way of verification 
of transactions. 
Thus, two "deep" challenges which we will consider further 
are need of ensuring interoperability of blockchains and 
designing of more effective of ways of verification of 
transactions. 
IV. ANSWERS TO PROFOUND CHALLENGES OF A BLOCKCHAIN 
In general and a possibility of interoperability of a 
blockchain, in particular, the technology of a sharding which 
consists in the organization of work of a hierarchically 
ordered set of blockchains of different type and the 
appointment can provide the need for scalability. At the same 
time in such a hierarchy, there is a root blockchain.  
The idea and the prospect of the development of a sharding 
are that here the structure of many social institutes of society is 
copied. The root blockchain plays a role of the court in this 
analogy, and affiliated blockchains contain information on 
operating activities. 
We see that during natural development of architecture in 
blockchain technology delegation and multinumber of stories 
appear; it is impossible to get rid of intermediary knots. It 
occurs because those intermediary knots which are 
systemically necessary for functioning in the real world are 
systemically needed also in the world of a blockchain. Thus, 
we recreate the hierarchically ordered system of social 
institutes. However, we add obligation and transparency of 
implementation of contracts. It can't be made in the real world 
because of "human, too human." That is the slogans of 
reductionists were insolvent: it is impossible to get rid of 
system complexity of the world, and to here reduce an 
influence of a human factor it is quite real [10]. 
Already there is a concrete realization of the idea of a 
sharding, for example, Plasma [11] - it is the sharding-platform 
from Ethereum, that is, in the root of a hierarchy of 
blockchains, in this case, there will be Ethereum. 
4.2. The answer to a challenge of a way of the 
establishment of consensus 
The response to the second "deep" challenge of the need for 
designing of a way establishment of an agreement, can become 
Proof-of-Stake. 
This option significantly less energy-intensive, than Proof-
of-Work both much faster and scalable. On the one hand, it is 
less subject to the threat of "creeping" centralization of large 
pools of miners. But, on the other hand, avoiding one risk, this 
type of establishment of consensus introduces new problems.  
Operation of validators on the different ends of a chain can 
lead to the crash system. That`s one threat of centralization 
replaced with another and what of them the lesser evil isn't 
apparent yet. However, the difference consists that Proof-of-
Stake have a chance to be modified so that to avoid this threat, 
and at Proof-of-Work isn't present. The task includes in picking 
up parameters of realization Proof-of-Stake so that to keep 
advantages and to prevent risks. In practice, it isn't so easy to 
make it.  
Therefore the actual realization of Proof-of-Stake is forced 
by something to renounce: the majority of the available options 
which aren't Proof-of-work (that is, Proof-of-Stake and others), 
are anyway partially centralized. In a blockchain community it 
is perceived unambiguously as the negative moment, therefore, 
a blockchain - software developers of an opportunity veil it. 
However, as protocols are open, blockchain enthusiasts, all the 
same, get to the bottom of an essence. For example, it has 
shown that the consensus of the Ripple network is a little bit 
centralized [12] also, as well as verification of transactions in 
the IOTA [13] system. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
V. CONCLUSION 
We have shown in this article that requires the blockchain 
industry in scalability and safety, comes down in many aspects 
to need of establishment of consensus [3]. And it can achieve 
employing the application of game-theoretic models. Thereby, 
it is possible to say that the game theory is a thematic priority 
for the development of the technology of a blockchain as the 
openly distributed ledger. It`s shown that the need for 
obtaining new results for games with imperfect information 
"covers" the most of the profound challenges facing blockchain 
technology. For justification of this provision to analyze 
various challenges are also allocated main of them. For each of 
the crucial challenges, it considered in what measure the 
answer to it is connected with the need of creation of new 
scientific results for some sections of game theory. 
REFERENCES 
[1] (University of Toronto) Some Simple 
Economics of the Blockchain. [29.04.2018]. : 
http://www.cauchyinvestments.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/01/Some-
Simple-Economics-of-the-Blockchain.pdf 
[2] The future of cryptocurrencies: Bitcoin and beyond. [29.04.2018]: 
https://www.nature.com/news/the-future-of-cryptocurrencies-bitcoin-
and-beyond-1.18447 
[3] Genkin A., Mikheyev A. Blokcheyn: As it also works that waits for us 
tomorrow. – M.: Alpina Publisher, 2018. – 282 pages. 
[4] Jesse Yli-Huumo, Deokyoon Ko, Sujin Choi, Sooyong Park, Kari 
Smolander. Where Is Current Research on Blockchain Technology?—A 
Systematic Review. [29.02.2018]: 
http://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.016347
7 
[5] The "Digital Economy of the Russian Federation" program is approved 
by order of the Government of the Russian Federation of July 28, 2017. 
No 1632. [29.02.2018]: 
http://static.government.ru/media/files/9gFM4FHj4PsB79I5v7yLVuPgu
4bvR7M0.pdf.
 
[6] Bigi G., Bracciali A., Meacci G., Tuosto E. Validation of Decentralised 
Smart Contracts through Game Theory and Formal Method. 
[29.02.2018]: 
http://storre.stir.ac.uk/bitstream/1893/23914/1/bHalo_Degano2015.pdf   
[7] Rusyaeva E.Yu., Saltykov S.A. Conceptual bases of the theory of active 
systems, their development in the theory of management of 
organizational systems: tendencies and prospects//Problems of Control. 
2017. No. 4. Page 74-83. 
[8] Yoad Lewenberg, Yoram Bachrach, Yonatan Sompolinsky, Aviv Zohar, 
Jeffrey S. Rosensche. Bitcoin Mining Pools: A Cooperative Game 
Theoretic Analysis. [29.02.2018]: 
http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.695.9873&rep
=rep1&type=pdf 
[9] Lin Chen, Lei Xu, Nolan Shah, Zhimin Gao, Yang Lu, and Weidong 
Shi. Decentralized Execution of Smart Contracts: Agent Model 
Perspective and Its Implications. [29.02.2018]: 
http://fc17.ifca.ai/wtsc/Decentralized%20Execution%20of%20Smart%2
0Contracts%20-
%20Agent%20Model%20Perspective%20and%20Its%20Implications.p
df 
[10]  Pryanikov M.M., Chugunov A.V. Blockchain as communication basis 
for the formation of the digital economy: advantages and problems. 
Kiberleninka. [29.02.2018]: https://cyberleninka.ru/article/n/blokcheyn-
kak-kommunikatsionnaya-osnova-formirovaniya-tsifrovoy-ekonomiki-
preimuschestva-i-problemy.  
[11] Salvation From Cryptokitties Draws Near: Plasma AntiCataclysm. Open 
source PROOF-OF-ASSET protocol to facilitate [25.12.2017]: 
https://blog.bankex.org/salvation-from-cryptokitties-draws-near-plasma-
anticataclysm-679adb2c1738. 
[12] Peter Todd. Ripple Protocol Consensus Algorithm Review. May 11th 
2015 [25.03.2018]:  https://raw.githubusercontent.com/petertodd/ripple-
consensu....pdf 
[13] Eric Wall. IOTA is centralized. Jun 14, 2017. [27.03.2018]: 
https://medium.com/@ercwl/iota-is-centralized-6289246e7b4d. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:07:09 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.