A Framework for Designing Self-sustaining Ecosystems with Blockchain
A Framework for Designing
Self-sustaining Ecosystems
with Blockchain
Swayam Shah(B) and Slinger Jansen
Department of Information and Computing Science, Utrecht University,
Utrecht, The Netherlands
s.r.shah@students.uu.nl, slinger.jansen@uu.nl
Abstract. Blockchain is a foundational technology where the idea of a
distributed database and trust is established through mass collaboration
and smart contracts. It is being claimed to be the next major socio-
technical advancement after the invention of the Internet. In this paper
we present a framework that supports experts in designing self-sustaining
ecosystems leveraging distributed ledger technology. The critical build-
ing blocks of the framework are value exchange mapping, determining
an evolutionary distributed ledger technology architecture, governance
modelling, and token engineering. The goal of the framework is to estab-
lish a Minimum Viable Ecosystem that is self-sustaining in itself while
having a positive-sum game as the basis to attain organic network effects.
The framework has been evaluated through three case studies of promi-
nent distributed ledger technology projects. The results of the case study
were positive and evident of the need for such frameworks to help experts
to think strategically, critically and precisely.
Keywords: Distributed Ledger Technology · Blockchain · Token
engineering · Self-sustaining ecosystems · Socio-technical system
1 Introduction
Problem Statement: Distributed Ledger Technology (DLT) projects have
been easy to bootstrap although when it comes to next steps, for going beyond
a proof of concept and scaling up while attaining the network effects, numer-
ous projects have failed or substantially devalued. At times, the reason behind
the failure is lack of in-depth understanding of intricacies of blockchain systems
coupled with unavailability of right tools to help the projects navigate through
the complexities to engineer a technically as well as commercially sound product
or service. Nonetheless, many blockchain startups and communities lack a well-
defined revenue model which makes it difficult to raise external funding. More-
over, there are also instances, where projects decide to completely discard tok-
enization as it increases complexity in the system, but it backfires as the project
loses an important component which can actually facilitate self-sustenance [3].
c© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2021
E. Klotins and K. Wnuk (Eds.): ICSOB 2020, LNBIP 407, pp. 184–192, 2021.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67292-8_14
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-67292-8_14&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-8623-1544
http://orcid.org/0000-0003-3752-2868
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-67292-8_14
A Framework for Designing Self-sustaining Ecosystems with Blockchain 185
Self-sustaining ecosystems can be defined as being able to operate itself with
negligible interference from the outside world. The value is created, distributed,
maintained, exchanged and stored within the ecosystem and follows the princi-
ples of anti-fragile systems proposed by Taleb and Douady [8]. Moreover, it aims
to establish a Schelling Point which is to have an equilibrium in the network
with zero communication or coordination. It is a concept of game theory which
people tend to use as default solution in the absence of communication because
it seems natural, special, or relevant to them.
Aims and Objectives: The problems discussed in the previous section demand
to design a framework which can break down the complexity of DLT systems
while enabling stakeholders to create self-sustainable ecosystems.
Moreover, it opens up a wide range of possibilities for creating ‘fair’ market-
places where digital assets could be traded, exchanged, gifted or even curated
without any mandate from any central entity. Therefore, we evaluate the pro-
posed framework by conducting case-studies with multiple DLT projects. Addi-
tionally, to the best of the authors’ knowledge, this is the first attempt towards an
artefact that is focused on critical elements of blockchain project which assists
in carrying out strategic thinking while establishing a precise project roadmap
with the aim to attain self-sustenance in the form of a Minimum Viable Ecosys-
tem(MVE).
Related Work: The most relevant work carried out before in order to propose
a framework to facilitate blockchain ecosystems was ‘Token Ecosystem Creation’
by Dhaliwal et al. [2]. However, it is precisely focused on token engineering while
this study focuses on all critical aspects of any blockchain or a DLT system.
Secondly, the research by Pelt et al. [7] and Tan [9], provides a blockchain gover-
nance and token economics framework, respectively. These important elements
while proposing a holistic framework for strategically navigating through any
DLT projects.
Research Process: The research design process followed Design Science
Research by Hevner and Chatterjee [6]. Further, for the literature study, the
study employed Multivocal literature study by Garousi et al. [5] and to evaluate
the proposed framework we followed the guidelines by Yin [11] for conducting
multiple case studies.
2 Framework
The conceptual model of DLTs resulting from Multivocal Literature Study,
served as an input to further curate the framework. The framework consist of
three phases, namely, Discover, Design and Deploy. Wherever possible, the steps
include suggested tools in the form of state-of-the-art conceptual sub-frameworks
or other artefacts which were brought together from academic as well as
186 S. Shah and S. Jansen
Fig. 1. The design science research framework applied to this study, adapted from [6]
non-academic communities. They were included in the process model to ensure
the framework delivers efficacy for DLT projects. The framework is defined in a
manner where governance and token engineering are an integral part of project
strategizing. Moreover, the framework is aligned to our research method of DSR
by Hevner and Chatterjee [6], where framework offers a cyclic process for rele-
vance, design, evaluation and rigour as depicted in Fig. 1.
There are two primary requirements for the framework to be operationally
feasible and operate at an optimum level, it is assumed that Self-sovereign iden-
tity (SSI) is integral part of the project and legal regulations are being considered
at each step of the framework.
It has been observed over the period of time that there is a common practice
by experts for approaching DLT projects as starting up a traditional business
or startup. But there is more to these projects when approached from the per-
spective of starting up a new ‘country’. The country requires a set of rules (gov-
ernance) and monetary policies (token economics) to facilitate/attract/retain
citizens (network effects) and drive their user behaviour. This approach helps
in making the governance, token engineering and network effects as Key Perfor-
mance Indicators (KPIs) for any Blockchain or DLT project.
The framework (Fig. 2) starts with the ‘Discover’ phase which determines
the particular characteristics of the ecosystem and the purpose behind the
ecosystem followed by stakeholder mapping and value exchange map-
ping. The discover phase aims to prepare blockchain leaders with a series of
questions while laying out the context, criteria for success, the scope of solution
space, and constraints that need to be satisfied. Secondly, determining DLT
architecture for the project is equally critical as there are key elements to con-
sider such as required level of on-chain transparency, platform access rights,
data governance, issuing of digital assets and tokenization. These are a few
of the most important considerations required at the beginning of any DLT
project. Further, to determine DLT architecture we suggest Decision Support
System(DSS) Farshidi et al. [4]. The DSS1 results in a potential list of possible
1 https://dss-mcdm.com.
https://dss-mcdm.com
A Framework for Designing Self-sustaining Ecosystems with Blockchain 187
options for DLT architecture as per the initial assumption of the project. The
DSS is a useful tool to perform quick initial feasibility check although recom-
mendations are generic and not specific to particular use-case.
The next phase ‘Design’ is an emerging concept that consists of building an
ecosystem surrounding the market or the business models via use of blockchain
or DLTs. It is a complex task, similar to designing and launching a completely
new economic system supported by technical infrastructure. It consists of making
high-level design choices including governance structures, the token modelling
and its parameters. These parameters are needed to be optimized for stakehold-
ers’ incentives and the long term sustainability of the associated ecosystem in
order to avoid value leakage. The governance must be focused on (i) Rules
(ii) The collective scope (iii) The decision-making process, and the (iv) Lack
of formal control systems. The blockchain governance model curated by van
Pelt [10], offers high-level view on the formation and context within the intri-
cacies of blockchain governance. It is divided into five dimensions consisting of
roles, incentives, membership, communication and decision making. The next
step is the token engineering. Token design requires an understanding of the
incentives for each participant in the ecosystem, the associated business model,
market structure, and network structure. The final model leads to a protocol
design that allows the network to sustain itself while prioritizing system secu-
rity through engineering of optimal incentive and governance mechanisms. The
core elements of token economics are divided into three segments, Market Design,
Mechanism Design and Token Design. Market design is the design of the envi-
ronment which mainly consists of off-chain parameters. Mechanism design is
the design of the system from off-chain as well as on-chain for optimizing gover-
nance, token economy and thereafter, overall ecosystem. Token design is the
design specific to the token that will be used in the ecosystem ecosystem Tan [9].
Further, the step of ‘classifying tokens’ is essential for the token economics
and engineering of the tokens. The tokens could be fungible or non-fungible
based upon the nature of project. The most critical parameter at the end of
Design phase is about ‘Analyzing Security Threats’, the research conducted
by Debus [1] offers required insights into securing the ecosystem.
The last phase is ‘Deploy’. The ‘Testing’ needs to be an integral part of
any ecosystem design process to build an optimal feedback loop that helps gov-
ern and monitor the system. This deploy phase consists of iteratively testing
until all parameters have been optimized with respect to their constraints. The
deployment process involves using a combination of mathematical, computer
science and engineering principles to fully understand the interactions in our
network and its failure points. It is important to note that optimization and
testing are present throughout the entire lifecycle in an iterative process, that
is, in practice, governance and token models should be continuously optimized
for parameters, variable ranges at all stages. There are various methods to test
and optimize the network, for instance, regression learning could be used to
validate the input selection stage for identifing the variables and parameters of
the objective function. Similarly, Monte Carlo simulations and Markov chains
188 S. Shah and S. Jansen
that allow quantifying outputs of token gravity to calculate the velocity of the
token and its value. Additionally, agent-based modelling and evolutionary algo-
rithms allow for the model to capture possible future interaction of different use
cases and users come on the network. The feedback loop created in this process
should relay information to deep learning models comprising neural networks,
this can assist in optimizing the network and maximize the objective function
of the network. The end goal of the proposed framework (Fig. 2) is to achieve
Minimum Viable Ecosystem that is self-sustaining in itself.
The process from Discover to Design is suggested to be a single way approach
as projects are expected to have concrete assumptions and reasoning before
starting the Design phase because it is likely to get lost in the hall of mirrors.
Although, the Design and Deploy phase are cyclic to keep room for continuous
testing and optimization of ecosystem.
3 Case Studies
The case-study partners were selected on the basis of satisfying these criteria: (i)
the blockchain project is relevant to the characteristics of SSE (ii) the blockchain
project involves a requirement for token engineering. The Table 1 summarizes
the case study partner, their field of work, nature of their project along with
identifiers. The identifiers were further used in Table 2 to link the case study
partner with their prominent comments. Please note that some amendments
were made to the framework after these evaluations. These amendments are left
out for reasons of brevity.
Table 1. An overview of the conducted evaluation multiple case-studies
Case study Field of work Type of project Identifier
Eclesia Startup Digital Collectables IE-1
Lisk Casino Community driven Online Casino (Gambling) IE-2
SecureSECO Academic Project Self-Sustaining Software Ecosystem IE-3
Table 2. The most prominent comments from the case participants about their expe-
riences with the framework along the five quality dimensions.
Evaluation Characteristics Rating Prominent Comments
Operational Feasibility IE-1: 5/5 IE-1: “The framework could be used
by every other DLT project and is
relevant to the LeanStack Startup
Innovation Framework”
IE-2: 5/5 IE-2: “It makes you think of all other
feasibility aspects”
IE-3: 5/5 IE-3: “Would be willing to come back
to this framework for future DLT
projects”
(contniued)
A Framework for Designing Self-sustaining Ecosystems with Blockchain 189
Table 2. (contniued)
Evaluation Characteristics Rating Prominent Comments
Ease of Use IE-1: 4/5 IE-1: “Well structured framework
which assists in clear thinking about
concrete critical steps”
IE-2: 5/5 IE-2: “DLT ecosystems are complex
and this framework helps in breaking
down those complexities”
IE-3: 2/5 IE-3: “Framework is helpful, but DLTs
are complex and therefore it gets
overwhelming to consider all aspects”
Usefulness IE-1: 5/5 IE-1: “It helps in thinking about DLT
elements that are essential for scaling
up”
IE-2: 4/5 IE-2: “It is a tangible artifacts for
blockchain projects”
IE-3: 5/5 IE-3: “It helps rethinking how
blockchain projects operate”
Completeness IE-1: 4/5 IE-1: “The discover and design phases
are accurate and complete although
deploy can still be improved”
IE-2: 5/5 IE-2: “The framework is complete and
covers all major aspects”
IE-3: 5/5 IE-3: “The framework is complete”
Effectiveness IE-1: 4/5 IE-1: “The framework is relevant to
the needs of DLT projects but it can
be improved”
IE-2: 4/5 IE-2: “The aspects discussed in the
case study are effective and helps in
thinking beyond the proof of concept”
IE-3: 5/5 IE-3: “It helps in asking the right
questions that are crucial for the
success of a project”
Fig. 2. Revised framework for designing self-sustaining ecosystems
190 S. Shah and S. Jansen
4 Discussion
There was a researched assumption that the DLT community lacks a structured
approach while working on a DLT project. Moreover, the aspects such as gover-
nance and token economics are rarely considered at the early stage of any DLT
project due to their complexity, although these elements determine key design
decisions in order to build a Minimum Viable Ecosystem. At the beginning of
this research, token engineering was the sole topic to focus on but while progress-
ing and getting a better perception of the range of the topics and gaps in the
community, it was decided to further scope our research and propose a holistic
framework which is complete in itself while aiming for self-sustenance.
Strengths of Framework: The goal of the framework was to assist DLT
projects to efficiently strategize and implement their solutions which includes
governance and token engineering as integral part of the process. The case-
studies made it evident that the framework is a required tool and important
for projects to scale-up. The step for ‘value exchange mapping ’ was the most
discussed element of all the case-studies. The overall results of the case-study
received high confidence on the framework in terms of operational feasibility,
completeness, effectiveness and usefulness. The framework provides scope for
experimentation and exploration throughout the process while aiming for Mini-
mum Viable Ecosystem. Moreover, it fills in the gap for the projects that have
already achieved a Proof of Concept for, and are struggling to further scale it
up. Here, the framework could be leveraged to attain network effects and scope
for new business models. The element such as value exchange mapping which
was the most discussed element of the case-study, could benefit from a defined
framework which can make value mapping efficient.
Limitations of Framework: During the case-studies, the framework was
sometimes perceived as a bit complex but that was also because of the nature of
DLT projects. The case-study reference material included all sub-category frame-
works regarding governance, token economics, classification of digital assets etc.
which can guide the projects but it did add complexity to the main framework.
Moreover, the case-studies were conducted with only three partners and results
were promising. Although, it is insufficient to derive a thorough conclusion from
just three case-studies. To reach a concrete conclusion there needs to be more
case-studies. Also, it is expected that the framework will evolve along with the
results from case-studies as well as with progress in the DLT space. Furthermore,
there could be efforts in making the framework more easy to perceive. On the
other hand, the evaluation of the deploy phase was limited as none of the projects
were at that stage and also, it requires state-of-the-art agent simulations to get
precise results but that in itself is a research and development challenge. Lastly,
the framework works as a guiding principle which extensively helps in answering
‘why’, ‘who’, ‘what’, ‘when’ for the project but has limitations while answering
‘how’.
A Framework for Designing Self-sustaining Ecosystems with Blockchain 191
Impacts of Framework: One of the most evident impacts of the framework,
during the course of case-studies was that each partner experienced some new ter-
ritories within the DLTs which were critical for their projects. It enabled rethink-
ing and reconsideration of elements crucial for engineering of DLT projects.
Moreover, the framework was received as a complete artefact covering all the
required DLT elements for the project. The effectiveness of the framework for
each of the project was impeccable as it enabled them to think about every
dimension in a DLT project. Each of the partners stated that they would use
the framework for their existing work and would be willing to come back to it, in
any other future DLT endeavours. Lastly, the framework is critical for the DLT
projects which are struggling to move beyond a proof of concept or a minimum
viable product.
5 Conclusion
Hence, the framework was curated while studying the intricacies of DLTs and
identifying the key elements of DLTs which dictate the design decisions to achieve
self-sustenance. These key elements were further structured into three phases of
Discover, Design and Deploy. The Design and Deploy are the iterative phases.
Furthermore, the framework was rigorously evaluated with ongoing DLT projects
as a part of multiple case studies. The results affirmed the need for such artefacts
which can help in strategizing the engineering decisions of next-generation socio-
technical ecosystems while making them commercially viable.
Future Work: The case studies were limited to three in this study, although
more case studies would provide concrete insights along with upgrading the
framework itself. The framework was perceived as bit complex and overwhelm-
ing so future could be in attempt to make it simpler and concise. Other inter-
esting future work would be modelling of token economics through agent based
simulations which would allow designers to bypass any theoretical limitations
and model the agents as per the assumptions directly while taking into account
every possible constraint.
Acknowledgement. This research is inspired from the work of Dhaliwal et al. [2]
and Tan [9].
References
1. Debus, J.: Consensus methods in blockchain systems. Technical report, Frankfurt
School of Finance & Management, Blockchain Center (2017)
2. Dhaliwal, E., Gurguc, Z., Machoko, A., Le Fevre, G., Burke, J.: Token ecosystem
creation a strategic process to architect and engineer viable token economies (2018)
3. Drljevic, N., Aranda, D.A., Stantchev, V.: Perspectives on risks and standards
that affect the requirements engineering of blockchain technology. Comput. Stand.
Interfaces 69, 103409 (2020)
192 S. Shah and S. Jansen
4. Farshidi, S., Jansen, S., España, S., Verkleij, J.: Decision support for blockchain
platform selection: three industry case studies. IEEE Trans. Eng. Manage. 67(4),
1109–1128 (2020)
5. Garousi, V., Felderer, M., Mäntylä, M.V.: Guidelines for including grey literature
and conducting multivocal literature reviews in software engineering. Inf. Softw.
Technol. 106, 101–121 (2019)
6. Hevner, A., Chatterjee, S.: Design science research in information systems. In:
Design Research in Information Systems. Integrated Series in Information Systems,
vol 22. Springer, Boston (2010). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-5653-8 2
7. van Pelt, R., Jansen, S., Baars, D., Overbeek, S.: Defining blockchain governance:
a framework for analysis and comparison. Inf. Syst. Manage. 38, 1–21 (2020)
8. Taleb, N.N., Douady, R.: Mathematical definition, mapping, and detection of (anti)
fragility. Quant. Financ. 13(11), 1677–1689 (2013)
9. Tan, L.: Token economics framework. SSRN 3381452 (2019)
10. van Pelt, R.L.: Blockchain governance: a framework for analysis and comparison.
Master’s thesis (2019)
11. Yin, R.K.: Case Study Research: Design And Methods, 2nd edn. Sage Publications,
Thousand Oaks, CA (1994)
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4419-5653-8_2
	A Framework for Designing Self-sustaining Ecosystems with Blockchain
	1 Introduction
	2 Framework
	3 Case Studies
	4 Discussion
	5 Conclusion
	References