Smart Academic and Professional Education
Citation: Silvestru, C.-I.; Firulescu,
A.-C.; Iordoc, D.-G.; Icociu, V.-C.;
Stoica, M.-A.; Platon, O.-E.; Orzan,
A.-O. Smart Academic and
Professional Education. Sustainability
2022, 14, 6408. https://doi.org/
10.3390/su14116408
Academic Editors: Gheorghe Orzan,
Rocsana Bucea-Manea-Tonis and
Adela García-Aracil
Received: 1 April 2022
Accepted: 20 May 2022
Published: 24 May 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
sustainability
Article
Smart Academic and Professional Education
Cătălin-Ionut, Silvestru 1, Alexandru-Cristian Firulescu 1, Dumitru-Georgian Iordoc 1 , Vasilica-Cristina Icociu 1,
Mihai-Alexandru Stoica 1, Otilia-Elena Platon 2,* and Anca-Olgut,a Orzan 3
1 Robots and Production System Department, University Politehnica of Bucharest, Splaiul Independent,ei 313,
060041 Bucharest, Romania; catalin.silvestru@upb.ro (C.-I.S.); alexandru.firulescu@stud.fiir.upb.ro (A.-C.F.);
dumitru.iordoc@stud.acs.upb.ro (D.-G.I.); cristina.icociu@onmicrosoft.upb.ro (V.-C.I.);
mihai.stoica1709@stud.electro.upb.ro (M.-A.S.)
2 Economic Sciences Department, “Nicolae Titulescu” University of Bucharest, Calea Văcăres, ti 185,
040051 Bucharest, Romania
3 Department of Oncologic Dermatology, University of Medicine and Pharmacy “Carol Davila”,
020021 Bucharest, Romania; olguta.orzan@umfcd.ro
* Correspondence: otiliaplaton@univnt.ro
Abstract: The evolution of technology brings closer the endless possibilities of education, allowing
a human to learn something new anywhere and anytime. With the crisis created by the pandemic
situation for the last two years, new ways of education have taken form to maintain the flow of
learning and qualification; thus, the term “distance learning” has been implemented in all types of
learning, from primary education all the way to tertiary education. This paper covers the image of
tertiary education, mostly at the level of universities. Many changes took form at this level, such as
developing new ways for the distance learning implementation by creating new programs dedicated
for this new method of education. We will present to you how these changes took form and how
they can evolve with the help of various technologies such as Blockchain and XR, and other strategic
learning methods such as Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) and gamification. Universities
start to create new programs based on their unique crypto coin, which help students pay for their
studies, such as articles, new disciplines, and exchange programs. The gamification of these programs
raises the interactivity that students have during class hours, thus motivating them and creating an
optimal curve of learning, combined with the implementation of XR technology.
Keywords: blockchain; cryptocurrency; education; MOOCs; gamification; tertiary education
1. Introduction
In order to better understand the subject of this article, we must understand the basics
of the subject: blockchain, MOOC, gamification, distance learning, and how these combine
to create new ways for large-scale educational development. To bring these parts together,
universities must develop new technologies, such as creating dedicated cryptocurrencies
and platforms where students can observe their development, register for new courses,
and have complete control and security of their data. The aim of this paper is to bring all
these pieces together and create the image of a new way of academic education.
Blockchain is the underlying technology that is utilised to produce cryptocurrencies;
Satoshi Nakamoto introduced it in 2008 by keeping an immutable distributed ledger across
thousands of nodes, and this disruptive technology has had a considerable influence on
institutional functions, commercial operations, and education. Blockchain has converted
the existing Internet from the “Internet of information sharing” to an “Internet of value
exchange”. Because of the immutability, transparency, and integrity of all transactions
completed in the blockchain network, this novel technology offers a wide range of possible
applications, and one of them will be discussed further herein. One of the foremost vital
aspects of blockchain technology is the number of nodes within the distributed blockchain
network maintain accord. One such example is the Bitcoin blockchain network, which
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408. https://doi.org/10.3390/su14116408 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14116408
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14116408
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3633-2432
https://doi.org/10.3390/su14116408
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/sustainability
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/su14116408?type=check_update&version=1
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 2 of 15
employs a hash-based Proof of Work (PoW) distributed consensus algorithm technology,
which can also be used to enhance the security of academic data (e.g., student and teacher
personal information, essays, etc.) and limits the bureaucracy required to submit, collect, or
verify documents [1].
For the field of education, distance learning and its link with developing computing
technologies hold a lot of promise; in practice, however, this combination frequently fails
to deliver the desired results. Some flaws are caused by technical faults, while others are
caused by the administration, instructional techniques, or pupils. Distance learning has
been around for over a century, despite the fact that it is a relatively new phrase, and the
word can be applied to a variety of instructional scenarios. Correspondence courses, which
began in Europe, were one of the first kinds of distant learning; until the mid-century, when
radio and television instruction became more prominent, this was the most popular mode
of remote learning. The definition of distance learning evolves in tandem with technological
advancements. Video lectures have become the norm in college and professional courses
over the last two decades. Mail-in tapes and lessons have been used in correspondence
courses to teach subjects such as foreign languages for a long time. Distance learning has
taken a new turn thanks to the internet and compressed video; remote teaching can be
done in real-time, and real-time video teaching is the most popular and fastest-growing
mode of instruction [2].
Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) have the advantage of being open to anyone
and accommodating an unlimited number of students. The fact that 220 million learners in
190 countries use MOOCs confirms their convenience and usability in Digital Languages.
The success of MOOCs is largely determined by participant interaction, which is facilitated
by discussion boards; they are totally educational online courses by definition, as they are
both accessible and scalable, allowing anyone to take them, and were initially provided by
the University of Manitoba in 2008 for information sharing. In addition, the emphasis on
social engagement has been extended to small face-to-face groups, suggesting that MOOCs
have a better impact on graduation [3].
Gamification is the application of game thinking, techniques, and components outside
of games to improve motivation and learning in both formal and casual contexts. Gami-
fication, which is thought to make learning more motivating and engaging, has become
a buzzword in recent years in all fields of education and training. It is being utilised
to increase things such as learning, staff performance, customer engagement, and even
crowdsourcing. Gamification is also on the rise in education, as it is believed to support and
motivate students, leading to better learning processes and outcomes. Before the validity
(or the opposite) of this belief can be established, a better understanding of gamification in
education is required, which essentially involves the “introduction of game elements into
the design of learning processes” [4].
2. Further Implementation of Blockchain in Education
The aforementioned summarises the essence of blockchain well: data records that
have become part of a blockchain and are maintained on a decentralised network so they
cannot be modified. The distributed data will be cryptographically safe, since blockchain is
peer-to-peer. It is essentially impossible for all records to change or even harm records on
all network objects, since all existing records are controlled by a set of nodes that cannot be
held by a single entity. Because all transactions made by a block are linked to one another,
the blockchain and its volunteers can employ cryptographic proof to confirm and sign them.
The first stage in forming a node is to create a block that contains several transactions. For
verification, about half of the nodes in the network will check the block. Verified blocks will
be added to the chain when all systems have archived them, not just to provide a unique
historical record, but also to record proof of corruption [5,6].
Blockchain technology consists of six main characteristics:
1. Decentralised: A blockchain is a public ledger that consists of nodes that are all
linked together in a network. Decentralisation, not political power, is what gives the
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 3 of 15
blockchain its power; this decentralisation refers to the process of storing, conserving,
verifying, and sending data in the blockchain, based on the distribution framework’s
structure [7,8].
2. Currency: Bitcoin is the world’s first digital currency in the present period of change,
out of all existing cryptocurrency ideas. Part of the cryptocurrency property is
blockchain technology, which is a virtual or digital currency that ensures end-to-
end transactions are safeguarded and trusted. Different development algorithms
were utilised to create these currencies. As a result, the integrated cryptocurrency
and blockchain product may be utilised in a variety of fields, including finance and
accounting [1,7].
3. Traceability: All transaction data on the blockchain will be grouped by indexing the
data sequentially, and a cryptographic hash will be used to link two adjacent blocks.
All current blockchains will be analysed through a cloud-based portal, and a reward
will be given when the mining pool has kept the blockchain up to date [1,7,9].
4. Consensus Mechanism: In the case where the network is between multiagent frame-
works or distributed processes, the consensus mechanism is utilised in the blockchain
and PC framework to establish agreement on a single data point; this feature is quite
useful throughout the recording process, and is a mechanism that contains numerous
operations, including DPOS, POW, and POS [7,10].
5. Smart Contract: A smart contract is a blockchain system that allows developers to
write financial agreements on the blockchain, which are then triggered by all parties
involved. This contract greatly improves the quality and security of transactions
while also lowering the external expenses associated with traditional transactions;
indeed, the smart contract was created to safeguard transactions that take place on
the blockchain, and it was initially designed by Nick Zabo in the mid-1990s [11].
6. Immutability: It means that once data hashave been entered, itthey cannot be modified.
Existing data isare likewise impossible to change because it isthey are under the control
of all parties involved. If you want to do harm (make modifications that are invalid),
you must alter the records recorded in the system by more than 51% [12].
2.1. Educational Advantages of Blockchain Technology
Blockchain technology is a fascinating new area of research and development that
has the potential to completely change the education business. The benefits of blockchain
innovation in instruction extend from information administration to information confir-
mation without jeopardizing the keenness of the data. Information on the blockchain is
open and unquestionable around the clock, seven days a week, with total openness [13].
Blockchain innovation is broadly utilised within the issue and confirmation of education-al
accreditations, such as degrees and transcripts, as well as students’ gifts, accomplishments,
and proficient competences, which can be confirmed by bosses all over the world. The
method of certification has been rearranged much obliged to blockchain innovation, and
bosses will spend less time confirming scholarly discoveries. It helps the instruction indus-
try by advertising a secure stage for sharing understudy information, expanding certainty,
bringing down costs, and expanding straightforwardness [14].
2.2. Blockchain Technology’s Potential Use in Several Aspects of a Learning Institution
Blockchain technology is extremely beneficial in terms of secure data storage, sharing,
and networking. Many operations can be made faster, simpler, and safer with distributed
ledger technology, as presented in Figure 1. The technology may be used to improve the
admissions process, examine extracurricular activity participation records, develop alumni
networks at schools and colleges, and administer library and information services; it can
also be used to provide transportation for students and employees. Through the protection
of intellectual property rights, the technology may also aid instructors and researchers at
school.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 4 of 15
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  4  of  16 
 
protection of intellectual property rights, the technology may also aid instructors and re‐
searchers at school. 
 
Figure 1. The potentials of Blockchain technology for learning institutions. 
2.2.1. Information and Library Services 
The library is one of the most important functions of any educational institution. Pre‐
viously,  either manual  record‐keeping  or  bar‐code  technology was  used  to distribute 
books to students. Distributed ledger technology can now be used to store and track all 
relevant data,  such as book movement and  the number of  students using a particular 
book. The various operations  in the  library at schools, colleges, and universities can be 
well organised and handled using blockchain. 
2.2.2. Extracurricular Activities Participation 
 In addition to their studies, students participate in a variety of extracurricular activ‐
ities  at  school,  college,  and  institutions. The  certificate of achievement, which demon‐
strates a student’s participation and contribution to an academic institute, can be kept and 
shared as needed with appropriate parties. Due to the complete proof system of the peer‐
to‐peer network, the communication network between the various stakeholders of the ed‐
ucational institution will be improved. 
2.2.3. Admissions 
Most educational institutions employ a strategy in which they maintain control over 
their students’ records and credentials. As a result, data may be tampered with, corrupted, 
or lost. Information can be shared in a secure way to interested parties utilising dispersed 
record innovation working on a decentralised network; moreover, it may be useful to en‐
sure protection against being a victim of identity theft, and this would empower under‐
studies to memorise in a versatile way, since they will be able to easily total the affirmation 
prerequisites of numerous colleges around the world. 
   
Figure 1. The potentials of Blockchain technology for learning institutions.
2.2.1. Information and Library Services
The library is one of the most important functions of any educational institution.
Previously, either manual record-keeping or bar-code technology was used to distribute
books to students. Distributed ledger technology can now be used to store and track all
relevant data, such as book movement and the number of students using a particular book.
The various operations in the library at schools, colleges, and universities can be well
organised and handled using blockchain.
2.2.2. Extracurricular Activities Participation
In addition to their studies, students participate in a variety of extracurricular activities
at school, college, and institutions. The certificate of achievement, which demonstrates a
student’s participation and contribution to an academic institute, can be kept and shared
as needed with appropriate parties. Due to the complete proof system of the peer-to-peer
network, the communication network between the various stakeholders of the educational
institution will be improved.
2.2.3. Admissions
Most educational institutions employ a strategy in which they maintain control over
their students’ records and credentials. As a result, data may be tampered with, corrupted,
or lost. Information can be shared in a secure way to interested parties utilising dispersed
record innovation working on a decentralised network; moreover, it may be useful to ensure
protection against being a victim of identity theft, and this would empower understudies
to memorise in a versatile way, since they will be able to easily total the affirmation
prerequisites of numerous colleges around the world.
2.2.4. Transportation and Lodging Options
Students and employees are usually provided transportation by academic institutions.
Ridesharing apps that employ blockchain technology to organise carpools can be used
to provide such services to students and staff with special needs, something desperately
needed as a result of rising traffic and congestion in urban areas; this type of school effort
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 5 of 15
will ensure that students have a safe and comfortable trip while also easing the burdens of
parents. Furthermore, the method can be used to assign hostel space to students in need.
2.2.5. Collaboration between Alumni
The system strengthens the relationship between teachers, staff, seniors, and junior
students by greatly enhancing communication-related to lectures, subjects, and events, in
addition to providing a platform for transparent record-keeping. A robust chain of blocks
can be used to enhance all types of student learning and essential contact with pupils; this
encourages students and faculty to form strong long-term bonds.
2.2.6. Protection of Intellectual Property
In addition to teaching, a university lecturer or professor must conduct research. It
is impossible to tell whether similar academic research is being done in the traditional
system. Additionally, research is not always devoid of plagiarism. The usage of blockchain
technology aids in the resolution of these issues. Without placing constraints on source ma-
terial, decentralised peer-to-peer technology can allow schools to distribute work publicly
while tracking reuse. In the academic system, smart contracts can also track author citation
details and provide research incentives.
2.3. Limitations and Roadblocks toward Blockchain Technology Adoption in Education
The Blockchain for Education platform is currently in prototype mode, but it can be
enhanced and improved in a variety of ways. First and foremost, the identification scheme
is strictly hierarchical, with the certification authority serving as a powerful root node. The
entire system can be harmed if the certificate authority’s private key is compromised or
lost.
Educational institutions have vast volumes of student data to manage, and they must
keep track of each and every part of students’ data; indeed, they continue to progress from
semester to semester, and their grades continue to rise. The student’s information is kept on
the blockchain network, which will result in a larger block size and increased transaction
latency. Blockchain networks keep records in each block, which makes retrieving records
based on the number of transactions per second repetitious and slow, producing scalability
concerns. Infrastructure costs, the cost of handling huge data, the time cost of sluggish
transactions, and the cost of processing power all contribute to the high cost of adopting
blockchain technology [15,16].
Blockchain costs more every time a new feature is implemented. Due to regular
updates and the installation of new features, data leakage might become a security risk.
Some believe that, even if it provides privacy and security, malicious assaults and data
breaches pose a threat to educational institutions, making it impossible for them to trust
blockchain technology. Some educational institutions are hesitant to put all of their data on
the blockchain network because they are unable to control the sort of data and services that
are made available through the blockchain network. Most institutions already have regular
procedures in place for administering educational activities, and blockchain technology
necessitates significant adjustments to such procedures [17,18]. All student and educational
data are integrated into the blockchain ledger through the blockchain system. It is difficult
for educational institutions to deploy new information storage systems or amend faulty
data because of the immutability feature [19,20]. Blockchain technology is still in its infancy,
with issues such as limited availability and complicated settings. Because the data and
value of each public key are publicly visible [21], it does not guarantee transaction privacy.
Due to complex settings, challenging language, and a lack of technical skills, it is difficult
for education stakeholders to comprehend [22].
3. Flexibility of Education
One of the major promises of distant learning is the convenience of time and space.
Students do not need to be physically present with their advisors, and depending on
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 6 of 15
the technique, they may not even be required to be present on time. For non-traditional
students who may not always be on time for class, this is a huge advantage. Practitioners
and researchers have yet to agree on standard definitions and nomenclature for learning
technologies and related domains, despite recent improvements [23]. As a result, making
significant cross-study comparisons based on previous research findings is a difficulty
for academia. As a result, the findings of research into distant learning, e-learning, and
online learning environments have been varied. Furthermore, given the absence of exact
meanings, terms are frequently used interchangeably. We began by reviewing the literature
to discover how these learning environments were described.
When referring to distance learning, the term “distance education” is most commonly
used. It is often defined as an effort to provide learning opportunities to people who
are geographically distant. Various authors and researchers have characterised remote
education and distance learning differently during the last two decades, according to
the literature. A proposed definition of computer participation in education includes
the distribution of educational materials via print and electronic media [24]. Instruction
is delivered by a teacher who is physically separated from the student and who may
provide instruction at different times; Dede expands on this notion by comparing standard
teaching methods and referring to this type of instruction as “lecturative teaching” [25].
Distance education, according to the definition, makes advantage of developing media
and related experiences to create distributed learning opportunities. Both definitions
acknowledge the apparent shift in the field and attribute it to the new technology available.
Furthermore; furthermore, Keegan considers “the term distance education to be an umbrella
term, meaning that the names correspondence education or correspondence learning were
formerly used interchangeably and were recognised as a potential predecessor to distance
education” [26].
Learning appears to be the focus of all types of education as new technologies evolve,
and the term distance learning is used to stress limits associated to “distance”, i.e., time
and place [27,28]. The terms [29] have now been expanded to include online learning,
e-learning, technology, mediated learning, online collaborative learning, virtual learning,
web-based learning, and other methods of learning. As a result, the common denominator
in all definitions is that some sort of education takes place between two parties (learner and
teacher), occurs at different times and/or places, and employs various types of instructional
resources [30].
When compared to traditional classroom training, e-learning offers numerous ad-
vantages, the most obvious of which are flexibility and cost reductions (travel and un-
employment). There are also some benefits that may not be immediately apparent, such
as:
• Students do not have to travel to attend classes: classes take place at your regular time
of day or night, which is very convenient for many students;
• E-Learning allows the learner to control how they learn and how they prefer to learn.
Because everyone learns in their own way;
• E-learning is beneficial to businesses because it saves learners or employees time and
money by allowing them to learn on the job. It also improves their performance and
helps the organization become more active;
• It is a self-paced course;
• Students will have a more accessible experience through e-learning as they learn from
content and interact with others in online communities and networks. E-learning can
facilitate “reflective and discussion learning” in this way;
• It operates anywhere and at any time because it gives constant information;
• It can be easily and rapidly updated;
• It can be readily handled for large groups of students—for example, health and safety
information can be maintained up to date by upgrading the intranet site;
• Employees can complete the training whenever they choose and divide it into pieces
as needed (eliminate inattention problems).
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 7 of 15
3.1. The Flexible Education Infrastructure’s Foundation
The need for a robust and scalable system to help handle courses, resources, evalua-
tions, and more was recognised in early 1995. As Auckland University’s Business Online
department could not find any information at the time on any tools that might be used for
this purpose, the Computer Supported Learning System (CECIL) (Figure 2) was developed
in late 1995 and released in March the following year; since then, more products such as
Blackboard and WebCT have entered the market. Because of their minimal underlying
data structures, these items were deemed unacceptable and rejected in comparison to the
CECIL system’s 200 tables and 1000+ characteristics; it is a system that combines teaching,
assessment, and class management into a single platform. CECIL supports approximately
835 courses (almost a quarter of the University’s offerings); this system is becoming in-
creasingly widely adopted and used. CECIL contains all of the university’s admissions
information and can be used by any course. With over 3 million weekly visits, the site is
one of the busiest in New Zealand. The Technical Support Center at the University is in
charge of the operation.
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  7  of  16 
 
 Students will have  a more  accessible  experience  through  e‐learning as  they  learn 
from content and interact with others in online communities and networks. E‐learn‐
ing can facilitate “reflective and discussion learning” in this way; 
 It operates anywhere and at any time because it gives constant information; 
 It can be easily and rapidly updated; 
 It can be readily handled for large groups of students—for example, health and safety 
information can be maintained up to date by upgrading the intranet site; 
 Employees can complete the training whenever they choose and divide it into pieces 
as needed (eliminate inattention problems). 
3.1. The Flexible Education Infrastructure’s Foundation 
The need for a robust and scalable system to help handle courses, resources, evalua‐
tions, and more was recognised in early 1995. As Auckland University’s Business Online 
department could not find any information at the time on any tools that might be used for 
this purpose, the Computer Supported Learning System (CECIL) (Figure 2) was devel‐
oped  in  late 1995 and released  in March  the  following year; since  then, more products 
such as Blackboard and WebCT have entered the market. Because of their minimal under‐
lying data structures, these items were deemed unacceptable and rejected in comparison 
to the CECIL system’s 200 tables and 1000+ characteristics; it is a system that combines 
teaching, assessment, and class management into a single platform. CECIL supports ap‐
proximately 835 courses  (almost a quarter of  the University’s offerings);  this system  is 
becoming increasingly widely adopted and used. CECIL contains all of the university’s 
admissions information and can be used by any course. With over 3 million weekly visits, 
the site is one of the busiest in New Zealand. The Technical Support Center at the Univer‐
sity is in charge of the operation. 
 
Figure 2. CECIL’s data model. 
CECIL includes a number of characteristics that make it suitable for use in both aca‐
demic and professional settings; it promotes the internet by allowing users to use popular 
browsers on a variety of platforms to access the online, and deploys industrial‐grade da‐
tabase and server software on ordinary hardware  to deliver a dependable, responsive, 
and adaptable work environment. Every  transaction  is  tracked and  logged  in a  timely 
manner on the system. Clients should be provided pages in less than a second, according 
to  design  specifications.  Because  the  safety  subsystem  is  extensible,  it  can  adapt  to 
Figure 2. CECIL’s data model.
CECIL includes a number of characteristics that make it suitable for use in both aca-
demic and professional settings; it promotes the internet by allowing users to use popular
browsers on a variety of platforms to access the online, and deploys industrial-grade
database and server software on ordinary hardware to deliver a dependable, responsive,
and adaptable work environment. Every transaction is tracked and logged in a timely
manner on the system. Clients should be provided pages in less than a second, according to
design specifications. Because the safety subsystem is extensible, it can adapt to changing
industry norms; it is possible to use secure connections, encryption, and biometric sensing
devices.
The user system interface is one of CECIL’s most important features. The student and
teacher interfaces are separated into two sections. All registered courses, gradebook (latest
markup), course materials, timetables, online exams with quick feedback, and communica-
tion systems are all accessible via the student interface (announcements, discussion groups,
web conferences).
Access to pertinent student data, evaluations, photographs, and communication
systems is available through the instructor’s interface. There are tools in the writing
interface for producing references, test projects, diagnostic feedback, course material, and
other course activities. With minimal effort, authors may effortlessly integrate large project
libraries from textbook publishers and batch load difficulties.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 8 of 15
3.2. Perspectives and Strategies for Distance Learning COVID-19
The COVID-19 lockdown, which took place in March in the middle of the school
year, forced educators to use a variety of ways to preserve the continuity and content of
instructional programs without compromising quality. Lectures, tutorials, and laboratory
work were the most common teaching techniques prior to the lockdown, and they all took
up roughly the same amount of time. For distant classes, various solutions have been tested.
Many classrooms became classes where students worked alone for the first two weeks of
the emergency, reading class files (slides, books, etc.) or specific files sent by educators.
Another strategy created in the early days of the epidemic was to use slideshow movies
that had educational explanations and were complemented by online videos to flesh out
certain themes.
All resources are available on Moodle, a free, open-source learning management
system, or on paper if students want them; this strategy is increasingly popular with
pupils. Students can watch videos many times, which helps them plan their schedule and
concentrate for longer lengths of time; this is an opportunity for students to hone their
talents, inventiveness, and adaptability. As a result, huge files must be shared using file
transfer services or the university’s video hosting platform. The advantage of this last
option is that video capsules can be embedded directly into teaching web platforms (such
as Moodle), avoiding the loss of students who are inevitably drawn to other supports when
commercial video platforms (comment sections, other videos, advertisements, etc.) are
used [31].
4. MOOCs Implementation in Universities and Publicly
Through diverse professional programs in various training systems, the education
system may diverge from the traditional school system. All systems are designed to move
data from one person to another or between individuals. Despite the fact that advances in
information and communication technology have had a significant impact on the develop-
ment of alternative knowledge transmission models, traditional teaching methods continue
to predominate. ICT primarily facilitates the virtualization and adaptation of the course,
as well as improving the participants’ understanding through its use; furthermore, online
development and communication technology have substantially increased the availability
of information in educational model construction while also speeding up, modernising,
and facilitating the movement of information [32,33].
4.1. MOOC
MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) are a type of distance learning (DL). They
shifted from the early deep learning environment as a result of the free-to-use learning
resource movement (Open Educational Resources Movement (OER)). Furthermore, MOOCs
are an important part of business knowledge transfer and exchange, which is accomplished
through DL platforms such as Moodle, Blackboard, Iversity, and Edmodo [34].
MOOCs are founded on the notion that the majority of participants who can engage
in online courses should not be limited, and that attendance should be completely free
and unlimited across the Internet. MOOCs refer to the use of additional methods, such
as interactive blogs, websites, and various other forms of contact via the web and mobile
phones, in addition to the traditional types of course instruction that are completely free.
The purpose of this platform is to collaborate with the general public in order to convey
and spread knowledge to large groups of people who are interested in a specific topic,
and it also ensures that all informal information about a topic is made available in tandem
with the expansion of formal knowledge. This; this approach is driven by the fact that
“peer-to-peer” network communication is possible unless the host’s (trainer’s) courses can
connect with each other, thereby transferring knowledge and information about a specific
field.
Following the release of the first MOOCs, a flurry of free online courses with compara-
ble quality arose quickly, reawaken interest in deep learning as a platform.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 9 of 15
4.2. cMOOC
cMOOCs are non-profit MOOCs that are built on open knowledge exchange and active
engagement of all stakeholders in the production of knowledge in a certain topic (where
c refers to the term MOOC connectionism or merger or collaboration). The main feature
is that anyone can start the exchange rate; there really is no single moderator or speaker,
but all active participants share information in certain areas, allowing them to broaden
and enhance their knowledge. MOOCs have an unlimited number of participants, and all
forms of literature and materials are free to utilise in the course. Due to the abundance
of content available on the internet and the vast amount of very complicated information
required to filter all of the data, it may be argued that such a platform is used by a big
number of participants. Also, you may deduce from this that MOOC members can “spawn”
new MOOC by focusing their interests in other areas in a split second, and MOOC is a
topic built on this information. Furthermore; furthermore, because students speak freely
within MOOCs, MOOCs discover users with similar interests and challenges, and MOOCs
continue to engage with one another after that, allowing MOOCs to continue working on
knowledge development and even establish a new MOOC [35,36].
4.3. xMOOC
The first non-free MOOC courses have been available since 2012. We can now see that
universities and well-known enterprises, rather than non-profit groups and people, are the
course providers. These MOOCs differ from traditional cMOOC platforms in their qualities.
To begin with, these MOOCs are built on traditional knowledge transmission platforms
and deep learning technologies. A moderator, or a group of moderators, is usually present.
Managers and trainers have more influence over how the MOOC is implemented and how
tasks are completed inside it in this situation. Participants are only a minor part of the
process of developing material to improve knowledge development. Although there is no
limit to the number of students, access to course materials is limited to those who have
registered as participants. If a student wants a completion certificate, hethey must pay for
it, which is generally expensive. These MOOCs are sometimes known as xMOOCs, and this
platform has been designed for many well-known universities’ courses [37]. This is done
in part to broaden knowledge and in part to pique the attention of prospective students at
these institutions. MOOCs meeting and speaking with people from varied backgrounds
and with various views of the topic may also help to knowledge transfer and advancement
in numerous settings.
The courses are non-formal forms of education since they do not constitute part of
the formal components of education, regardless of whether they are developed by various
educational institutions or corporations receiving professional training. Even though the
majority of students do not achieve the requirements for a certificate, the knowledge of
participants will definitely increase by the conclusion of the course.
The first and most important benefit of such informal classes is that they enlighten and
educate individuals on how they can use their rights. Furthermore, certain countries, such
as India, which has a big number of computer illiterates, aspire to increase the credentials
of the working population in this way.
4.4. Mooc Providers and Platforms
The year 2012 was arguably the most significant in the development of MOOC plat-
forms. Table 1 presents some examples of Nonprofitable and Commercial MOOC providers
from various countries. This; this year, a group of prominent financiers teamed up with
well-known colleges to launch multiple well-known MOOC platforms: the first is the
Coursera platform, which includes qualified institutions including the Wharton School
of Business, University of Maryland, and the University of Maryland. The University of
Virginia, the University of Tokyo, the University of Houston System, Stanford University,
and the University of Edinburgh, followed by Udacity, a platform developed by Google,
Cloudera, Georgia Tech, Autodesk, San Jose State University, NVidia, Salesforce.com, Face-
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 10 of 15
book, and Cadence, as well as by Kyoto University, MIT, Harvard, Australian National
University, UC Berkeley, University of Queensland, Dartmouth College, Indian Institute
of Technology Bombay, and Madrid edX, supported by Autonomous University. These
three platforms are the most well-known and established since they are supported by
large financial institutions. These platforms host a vast number of courses in a variety
of subjects. Let’s just say Coursera MOOC hosts over 1000 courses in collaboration with
around 120 partners.
Table 1. Nonprofitable and Commercial MOOC providers.
Course Type Provider Organization Country
Nonprofitable
edX
MIT, Kyoto University, Universidad Autonoma de
Madrid, University of Queensland, Harvard University,
Dartmouth College, UC Berkeley, Australian National
University, IIT Bombay, IIM Bangalore
USA
MOOED Queensland University of Technology, University of
Queensland, Griffith University Australia
XuetangX Tsinghua University China
Commercial
Udemy
Professors from Universidad de Chile, George
Washington University, University of Chicago Law School,
and other institutions.
USA
Udacity
Google, Autodesk, Cadence, Georgia Institute of
Technology, Facebook, San Jose State University,
Salesforce.com, Cloudera, Nvidia
USA
openHPI Hasso Plattner Institute at the University of Potsdam Germany
Eliademy Aalto University Executive Education Finland
Coursera
University of Tokyo, University of Virginia, University of
Maryland, Wharton School,
Stanford University, University of Houston System,
University of Edinburgh
USA
The notion of open access to MOOCs leads to a multinational and multicultural
growth of communication and knowledge transmission in each situation, so that this type
of platform benefits all participants, particularly those whose communities’ MOOC-related
themes are underdeveloped. The individual courses are also listened to by thousands of
people from dozens of countries. Data reveal that around 45% of participants take courses
in a language other than their mother tongue, supporting the idea of globalisation of this
style of education. Depending on the wishes and needs, each student can easily find a
platform and MOOC that he can attend.
4.5. MOOCs Effect on Motivation and Attendance
Some students that have attended MOOCs in the last year were given a satisfaction
assessment questionnaire regarding the various aspects of the courses, including issues
related to information and demonstration activities, and were questioned about their
motives for attendance. As seen in Figure 3, a sizable proportion of students select the
course where they expect the exchange rate to be more interesting than courses that they
have previously observed. Second, participants in the course chose the reasons for wanting
to increase their knowledge in present and past schooling. Their aim is to improve their
abilities. They are based on the course level, and based on the information gathered, they
do not have a priority to complete the course [37]. Some participants considered that the
MOOC would be advantageous to their professional careers. These students are under a
lot of pressure to finish the course and get the certificates they need to succeed in their jobs.
According to the organisers, a number of customers take the course because they anticipate
learning more from lecturers from famous educational institutions.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 11 of 15
Sustainability 2022, 14, x FOR PEER REVIEW  11  of  16 
 
where they expect the exchange rate to be more interesting than courses that they have 
previously observed. Second, participants in the course chose the reasons for wanting to 
increase their knowledge in present and past schooling. Their aim is to improve their abil‐
ities. They are based on the course level, and based on the information gathered, they do 
not have a priority  to  complete  the  course  [37]. Some participants  considered  that  the 
MOOC would be advantageous to their professional careers. These students are under a 
lot of pressure to finish the course and get the certificates they need to succeed in their 
jobs. According  to  the organisers, a number of customers  take  the course because  they 
anticipate learning more from lecturers from famous educational institutions. 
 
Figure 3. Students’ motivation for participating in MOOCs. 
While some of the participants participated out of curiosity, they indicate that they 
want to learn as much as they can from the course. These attendees are often persons who 
use the web on a regular basis and frequently do not complete the course; they exit the 
course when they have satisfied their demands for specific information. In reality, there is 
no precise cross‐section of states when a portion of a student ceases to listen and attend a 
lesson. This; this is mostlymost evident in the fact that a completion rate of 6–10% of par‐
ticipants is considered extremely satisfactory, if not great. 
4.6. MOOCs Risks 
The downsides of MOOCs flagged as teacher professional risk are primarily related 
to the threat of unemployment due to the  integration of online courses  into  traditional 
classrooms, especially “given that a teacher now has access to a wider audience, poten‐
tially taking a pay cut”, so it is “fear of being unwanted and unnecessary”. 
Another occupational danger facing MOOC teachers, especially MOOC developers, 
is “transfer of ownership”, where teachers transfer course copyright to their employer, the 
production agency. In this case, it is up to the institution, not the faculty, to choose the 
platform that provides the MOOC, along with the duration, type of access, monetization 
strategy, etc. Online platforms will only deal with course‐related issues if the university 
Figure 3. Students’ motivation for participating in MOOCs.
While some of the participants participated out of curiosity, they indicate that they
want to learn as much as they can from the course. These attendees are often persons who
use the web on a regular basis and frequently do not complete the course; they exit the
course when they have satisfied their demands for specific information. In reality, there is
no precise cross-section of states when a portion of a student ceases to listen and attend
a lesson. This; this is mostlymost evident in the fact that a completion rate of 6–10% of
participants is considered extremely satisfactory, if not great.
4.6. MOOCs Risks
The downsides of MOOCs flagged as teacher professional risk are primarily related
to the threat of unemployment due to the integration of online courses into traditional
classrooms, especially “given that a teacher now has access to a wider audience, potentially
taking a pay cut”, so it is “fear of being unwanted and unnecessary”.
Another occupational danger facing MOOC teachers, especially MOOC developers, is
“transfer of ownership”, where teachers transfer course copyright to their employer, the
production agency. In this case, it is up to the institution, not the faculty, to choose the
platform that provides the MOOC, along with the duration, type of access, monetization
strategy, etc. Online platforms will only deal with course-related issues if the university
has certain rights. The platform must address each MOOC instructor’s organizational
challenges individually. On the other hand, the assignment of the ownership agreement
does not preclude discussing such decisions with the instructor and prohibits the institution
from referring to another person as the MOOC creator, meaning that the copyright belongs
to the instructor who made the MOOC.
5. Attractive Education with the Help of Gamification
Gamification is the application of game concepts, techniques, and features in a non-
game situation. In both formal and informal settings, using game elements boosts motiva-
tion and learning.
The following definitions overlap and can be summarised: Gamification is the applica-
tion of game features and game thinking to non-game activities.
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 12 of 15
Games have some specific characteristics that are important in gamification:
• Users are all participants—employees or clients (for businesses), students (for educa-
tional institutions);
• Ranking of users based on their achievements;
• Levels that users pass based on the points;
• Challenges/tasks that users complete and progress towards defined goals;
• Points earned as a result of completing tasks;
• Badges that serve as rewards for completing actions.
5.1. The Chemistry between Education and Gamification
Gabe Zichermann [38] claims that “using gaming mechanics boosts the ability to learn
new skills by 40%, and so when users use game-based techniques they are more dedicated
and driven to the activities and processes in which they participate”. Because they have
played or continue to play a range of games, consumers are familiar with game mechanics.
Although this conclusion applies to corporations and their employees, it also applies to
education. Students’ lack of engagement and willingness to participate actively in the
learning process is one of the most significant challenges in modern education. As a result,
teachers are attempting to boost student engagement and enthusiasm to participate in
training by employing unique strategies and approaches. One solution is to utilise prizes
to acknowledge and reward efforts and outcomes, which will increase motivation for
involvement and activity. This; this decision was made due to the incorporation of gaming
components into the learning process.
Gamification in education refers to the inclusion of game mechanics and components
into a learning environment. Because data processing and tracking are automated, and
software tools can deliver full outcomes, e-learning, which is based on modern ICT, pro-
vides favourable conditions for gamification deployment. The use of game components
in education makes sense because there are several truths that are common to games and
training. In games, users’ activities are targeted at accomplishing a certain goal (win)
in the face of challenges. There is a learning objective in education that must be met by
engaging in certain learning activities or interacting with educational content. The abil-
ity to track the progress of players in games is crucial, because subsequent actions and
moves are determined by their outcomes. In education, it is critical to keep track of pupils’
development in order to meet learning objectives. The degrees of information and skills
attained by students define their learning path [39]. Collaboration in education is a critical
component of effectively adopting active learning. Unlike training games, games with
a strong competitive aspect have a strong competitive element. Rather than competing
among students, the learning process should focus on developing skills for cooperation
and teamwork, as well as accountability for the group’s achievement.
Gamification has nothing to do with knowledge or abilities. Gamification influences
students’ behavior, commitment, and motivation, which can lead to knowledge and skill
advancement [40].
5.2. How to Implement Gamification
An efficient plan of implementing gamification in e-learning necessitates a thorough
examination of current conditions and software tools. The strategy’s primary steps are as
follows:
1. Establishing learning objectives
Specific and well-defined learning objectives are required. Because if the goal of
education is not to achieve learning objectives, all activities (even gamification activities)
would appear to be pointless. The objectives define which instructional resources and
activities should be included in the learning process, as well as the game mechanics and
methods that will be employed to accomplish them.
2. Identifying the characteristics of the pupils
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 13 of 15
Instructors must characterise students’ traits (profiles) while presenting new ap-
proaches to the learning process in order to determine the acceptability of the new tools
and techniques. The most significant and critical variables are students’ tendency to engage
with learning information and participate in competitive learning activities. It is vital for
teachers to assess and remember what skills participants will need to achieve the goals
—whether the tasks and activities will necessitate certain abilities from pupils. If tasks
are too easy or too challenging, learners may become demotivated, resulting in a bad
consequence [40].
3. Development of gamified instructive substance and exercises
Interactive, engaging, and multimedia-rich educational content is recommended.
Training sessions should be tailored to the learning objectives and comprise the following
components [41]:
Multiple performances: learning activities should be designed so that students can
repeat them if they fail the first time. It is critical to establish the necessary conditions and
opportunities in order to reach the final aim. Students’ skills will increase as a result of
repetitions.
Increasing the level of difficulty: each following activity is anticipated to be increas-
ingly challenging, requiring more work from students and aligned with their newly ac-
quired aptitudes, skills and knowledge.
Possibilities: the learning activities must be achievable. They must be individualised
and tailored to the students’ abilities and skill levels.
Multiple paths: in order to build a wide set of talents in students, they must be able to
attain their goals via a variety of routes. One of the fundamental qualities of active learning
is that it allows pupils to develop their own tactics.
4. Including game mechanics and aspects
The inclusion of activities that learners must perform is a key component of gamifica-
tion. Task accomplishment results in the accumulation of points, promotion to higher levels,
and the acquisition of rewards. All of these acts are intended to assist pupils in meeting
predetermined learning objectives. The parts of training that will be covered are defined by
the goals that have been specified (“what knowledge and skills should be acquired as a
result of the task”). Individual awards are offered for tasks that require students to work
alone (such as badges). The social component of training comprises activities that need
contact with other learners; they make students members of a vast learning community,
and their consequences are public and visible (such as leaderboards) [40].
6. Conclusions
In this article, we discussed the components of MOOCs and the implementation in
academic education, as well as it is further implementation in universities. Our main
result was to create an image of its implementation and conclude if it is worth it or it just
creates more problems for the universities, teachers, and students as well. From the data
collected, we can conclude that it can bring many good aspects and opportunities not only
for students and the university itself, but also for the economic and governmental branches,
further allowing companies to get in touch with the universities and its absolvents.
The Blockchain technology can increase pupils’ drive to study by recognizing that
“learning means creating money”; it can retain extensive and reliable records of educational
activities in both formal and informal learning contexts, including strategies and outcomes,
and it may also track instructors’ teaching abilities and execution, which can be used as a
model for teacher assessment. In conclusion, blockchain has significant promise for both
learners and educators in terms of planning, documenting, and investigating behaviour,
as well as developmental evaluation. Researchers, developers, and educators face both
obstacles and opportunities as a result.
Gamification is a simple and effective way to include it into e-learning. Game strategies
and processes can be utilised as activities in the learning process to assist students in
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 14 of 15
achieving specific learning objectives, increasing their motivation to finish them, and
engaging them in friendly rivalry with other students.
Game-based learning is an effective method for influencing students’ attitudes and
behaviours toward learning, as well as enhancing motivation and engagement. The impacts
of the alteration are bidirectional: they might affect students’ grades and knowledge of
educational content while also creating circumstances for effective learning.
We also observed how MOOCs can affect the motivation and attendance of students
in education. MOOC providers were searching for ways to provide courses outside of
colleges in 2021. Corporations and governments across the globe have boosted their use
of online courses as a result of the epidemic. They are (and will be) seeking growth in
this area in the coming years. The leading MOOC providers are expected to increase their
library through non-university partners in 2022, as well as to grow their companies into
the lucrative enterprise category.
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I., M.-A.S., O.-E.P. and
A.-O.O.; Data curation, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.; Formal analysis, C.-I.S., A.-C.F.,
D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.; Investigation, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.; Methodology,
C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.; Resources, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.;
Supervision, C.-I.S. and A.-C.F.; Validation, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.; Visualization,
A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I. and M.-A.S.; Writing—original draft, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I., M.-A.S.,
O.-E.P. and A.-O.O.; Writing—review and editing, C.-I.S., A.-C.F., D.-G.I., V.-C.I., M.-A.S., O.-E.P. and
A.-O.O. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research received no external funding.
Institutional Review Board Statement: The study was conducted according to the guidelines of the
Declaration of Helsinki, and approved by the Institutional Review Board (or Ethics Committee) of
University Politehnica of Bucharest, Robots and Production System Department.
Informed Consent Statement: Informed consent was obtained from all subjects involved in the
study.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
References
1. Chen, G.; Xu, B.; Lu, M.; Chen, N.-S. Exploring blockchain technology and its potential applications for education. Smart Learn.
Environ. 2018, 5, 1. [CrossRef]
2. Doug, V. Distance Learning: Promises, Problems, and Possibilities. In Online Journal of Distance Learning Administration, Volume V,
NumberIII, Fall 2002; State University of West Georgia, Distance Education Center: Carrollton, GA, USA, 2002.
3. Al-Rahmi, W.; Aldraiweesh, A.; Yahaya, N.; Bin Kamin, Y.; Zeki, A.M. Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs): Data on higher
education. Data Brief 2019, 22, 118–125. [CrossRef] [PubMed]
4. Caponetto, I.; Earp, J.; Ott, M. Gamification and Education: A Literature Review. In Proceedings of the 8th European Conference
on Games-Based Learning—ECGBL 2014, Berlin, Germany, 9–10 October 2014; Volume 1, pp. 50–57.
5. Biswas, K.; Muthukkumarasamy, V. Securing smart cities using blockchain technology. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE 18th
International Conference on High Performance Computing and Communications, IEEE 14th International Conference on Smart
City, IEEE 2nd International Conference on Data Science and Systems (HPCC/SmartCity/DSS), Sydney, NSW, Australia, 12–14
December 2016; pp. 1392–1393.
6. Alharby, M.; van Moorsel, A. Blocksim: A simulation framework for blockchain systems. ACM Sigmetr. Perform. Eval. Rev. 2019,
46, 135–138. [CrossRef]
7. Yumna, H.; Khan, M.M.; Ikram, M.; Ilyas, S. Use of Blockchain in Education: A Systematic Literature Review. In Proceedings of
the Asian Conference on Intelligent Information and Database Systems, Yogyakarta, Indonesia, 8–11 April 2019; pp. 191–202.
8. Adiyanto, A.; Febrianto, R. Authentication Of Transaction Process In E-marketplace Based On Blockchaintechnology. Aptisi Trans.
Technopreneursh. 2020, 2, 68–74. [CrossRef]
9. Lin, I.-C.; Liao, T.-C. A survey of blockchain security issues and challenges. IJ Netw. Secur. 2017, 19, 653–659.
10. Grech, A.; Camilleri, A.F. Blockchain in Education; Publications Office of the European Union: Luxembourg, 2017.
11. Harahap, E.P.; Aini, Q.; Anam, R.K. Pemanfaatan teknologi blockchain pada platform crowdfunding. Technomed. J. 2019, 4,
199–210. [CrossRef]
12. Mohanty, D. Ethereum for Architects and Developers; Springer: Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2018. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1186/s40561-017-0050-x
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.dib.2018.11.139
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30581914
http://doi.org/10.1145/3308897.3308956
http://doi.org/10.34306/att.v2i1.71
http://doi.org/10.33050/tmj.v4i2.1108
http://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4842-4075-5
Sustainability 2022, 14, 6408 15 of 15
13. Jirgensons, M.; Kapenieks, J. Blockchain and the Future of Digital Learning Credential Assessment and Management. J. Teachnol.
Educ. Sustain. 2018, 20, 145–156. [CrossRef]
14. Alammary, A.; Alhazmi, S.; Almasri, M.; Gillani, S. Blockchain-Based Applications in Education: A Systematic Review. Appl. Sci.
2019, 9, 2400. [CrossRef]
15. Vukoli, M. The quest for scalable blockchain fabric: Proof-of-work vs. BFT replication. In International Workshop on Open Problems
in Network Security; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2015; pp. 112–125.
16. Saberi, S.; Kouhizadeh, M.; Sarkis, J.; Shen, L. Blockchain technology and its relationships to sustainable supply chain management.
Int. J. Prod. Res. 2018, 57, 2117–2135. [CrossRef]
17. Han, M.; Li, Z.; He, J.S.; Wu, D.; Xie, Y.; Baba, A. A Novel Blockchain-based Education Records Verification Solution. In
Proceedings of the 19th Annual SIG Conference on Information Technology Education, Fort Lauderdale, FL, USA, 3–6 October
2018; pp. 178–183.
18. Gresch, J.; Rodrigues, B.; Scheid, E.; Kanhere, S.S.; Stiller, B. The Proposal of a Blockchain-Based Architecture for Transparent Certificate
Handling; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2018; pp. 185–196.
19. Xu, J.J. Are blockchains immune to all malicious attacks? Financ. Innov. 2016, 2, 25. [CrossRef]
20. Sharples, M.; Domingue, J. The blockchain and kudos: A distributed system for educational record, reputation and reward. In
European Conference on Technology Enhanced Learning; Springer: Cham, Switzerland, 2016; pp. 490–496.
21. Kosba, A.; Miller, A.; Shi, E.; Wen, Z.; Papamanthou, C. Hawk: The Blockchain Model of Cryptography and Privacy-Preserving
Smart Contracts. In Proceedings of the 2016 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), San Jose, CA, USA, 22–26 May 2016;
pp. 839–858. [CrossRef]
22. Mikroyannidis, A.; Domingue, J.; Bachler, M.; Quick, K. A Learner-Centred Approach for Lifelong Learning Powered by the
Blockchain. Proc. EdMedia Innov. Learn. 2018, 1, 1388–1393.
23. Lowenthal, P.; Wilson, B.G.; Parrish, P. Context matters: A description and typology of the online learning landscape. In
Proceedings of the 2009 AECT International Convention, Louisville, KY, USA, 27–31 October 2009.
24. Moore, M.G. Background and overview of contemporary American distance education. In Contemporary Issues in American
Distance Education; Pergamon Press: New York, NY, USA, 1990; pp. xii–xxvi.
25. Dede, C. The evolution of distance education: Emerging technologies and distributed learning. Am. J. Distance Educ. 1996, 10,
4–36. [CrossRef]
26. Keegan, D. Foundations of Distance Education, 3rd ed.; Routledge: London, UK, 1996.
27. Guilar, J.; Loring, A. Dialogue and community in online learning: Lessons from Royal Roads University. J. Distance Educ. 2008, 22,
19–40.
28. Stracke, C.M. The quality of MOOCs: How to improve the design of open education and online courses for learners? In Learning
and Collaboration Technologies Novel Learning Ecosystems, LCT 2017, Part I, LNCS 10295; Zaphiris, P., Ioannou, A., Eds.; Springer:
Berlin/Heidelberg, Germany, 2017; pp. 285–293.
29. Conrad, D. E-Learning and social change: An apparent contradiction. In Perspectives on Higher Education in the Digital Age;
Beaudoin, M., Ed.; Nova Science Publishers: New York, NY, USA, 2006; pp. 21–33.
30. Deng, R.; Benckendorff, P.; Gannaway, D. Learner engagement in MOOCs: Scale development and validation. Br. J. Educ. Technol.
2019, 51, 245–262. [CrossRef]
31. Dietrich, N.; Kentheswaran, K.; Ahmadi, A.; Teychené, J.; Bessière, Y.; Alfenore, S.; Laborie, S.; Bastoul, D.; Loubière, K.; Guigui, C.; et al.
Attempts, Successes, and Failures of Distance Learning in the Time of COVID-19. J. Chem. Educ. 2020, 97, 2448–2457. [CrossRef]
32. Brooker, A.; Corrin, L.; De Barba, P.; Lodge, J.; Kennedy, G. A tale of two MOOCs: How student motivation and participation
predict learning outcomes in different MOOCs. Australas. J. Educ. Technol. 2018, 34. [CrossRef]
33. Kristine, F.; Hyun, G.K. Learning Outcomes in a Stress Management Course: Online versus Face-to-Face. MERLOT J. Online
Learn. Teach. 2014, 10, 2.
34. Petra, K. Mooc Book: An Easy Step-by-Step Guide to Online Learning UsingMoocs; Petra Kirn, 9 February 2015. Available online:
https://www.amazon.com/MOOC-BOOK-STEP-STEP-LEARNING-ebook/dp/B00TFIUIRS (accessed on 31 March 2022).
35. Marion, W.; Jenny, M.; George, R.; Elizabeth, L. Liminal Participants and Skilled Orienteers: Learner Participation in a MOOC for
New Lecturers. MERLOT J. Online Learn. Teach. 2013, 9, 2.
36. Griesbaum, J. Students as Teachers in MOOCs? The Double Gain of MOOCs as an in-Class Teaching Method Experiences from a
Student-Made MOOC “Online Data Privacy”. Int. J. Inf. Educ. Technol. 2014, 4, 29–34. [CrossRef]
37. Michael, N. MOOCs: Opportunities, Impacts, and Challenges: Massive Open Online Courses in Colleges and Universities; CreateSpace
Independent Publishing Platform: South Carolina, LA, USA, 14 December 2013.
38. Gamification. Techniques Increase Your Employees’ Ability to Learn by 40%. Available online: www.businessinsider.com/
gamification-techniques-increase-your-employeesability-to-learn-by-40-2013-9 (accessed on 27 December 2021).
39. Glover, I. Play as You Learn: Gamification as a Technique for Motivating Learners. In Proceedings of the World Conference on
Educational Multimedia, Hypermedia and Telecommunications, AACE, Denver, CD, USA; 2013.
40. Gamification of Education. Toronto: University of Toronto. Available online: http://inside.rotman.utoronto.ca/behaviouralecono-
micsinaction/files/2013/09/GuideGamificationEducationDec2013.pdf (accessed on 27 December 2021).
41. Simões, J.; Redondo, R.D.; Vilas, A.F. A social gamification framework for a K-6 learning platform. Comput. Hum. Behav. 2013, 29,
345–353. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.2478/jtes-2018-0009
http://doi.org/10.3390/app9122400
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2018.1533261
http://doi.org/10.1186/s40854-016-0046-5
http://doi.org/10.1109/sp.2016.55
http://doi.org/10.1080/08923649609526919
http://doi.org/10.1111/bjet.12810
http://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jchemed.0c00717
http://doi.org/10.14742/ajet.3237
https://www.amazon.com/MOOC-BOOK-STEP-STEP-LEARNING-ebook/dp/B00TFIUIRS
http://doi.org/10.7763/IJIET.2014.V4.363
www.businessinsider.com/gamification-techniques-increase-your-employeesability-to-learn-by-40-2013-9
www.businessinsider.com/gamification-techniques-increase-your-employeesability-to-learn-by-40-2013-9
http://inside.rotman.utoronto.ca/behaviouralecono-micsinaction/files/2013/09/GuideGamificationEducationDec2013.pdf
http://inside.rotman.utoronto.ca/behaviouralecono-micsinaction/files/2013/09/GuideGamificationEducationDec2013.pdf
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2012.06.007
	Introduction 
	Further Implementation of Blockchain in Education 
	Educational Advantages of Blockchain Technology 
	Blockchain Technology’s Potential Use in Several Aspects of a Learning Institution 
	Information and Library Services 
	Extracurricular Activities Participation 
	Admissions 
	Transportation and Lodging Options 
	Collaboration between Alumni 
	Protection of Intellectual Property 
	Limitations and Roadblocks toward Blockchain Technology Adoption in Education 
	Flexibility of Education 
	The Flexible Education Infrastructure’s Foundation 
	Perspectives and Strategies for Distance Learning COVID-19 
	MOOCs Implementation in Universities and Publicly 
	MOOC 
	cMOOC 
	xMOOC 
	Mooc Providers and Platforms 
	MOOCs Effect on Motivation and Attendance 
	MOOCs Risks 
	Attractive Education with the Help of Gamification 
	The Chemistry between Education and Gamification 
	How to Implement Gamification 
	Conclusions 
	References