The Spectacular Collapse of Cryptokitties
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:06:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
By Matthew S. SMith
and the future of cryptocurrency
What the first big blockchain game
says about NFTs
The Spectacular
COLLAPSE ofCRYPTOKITTIES
Illustration by Frank Stockton
SEPTEMB
ER 2022
  SPECT
RUM.IEE
E.ORG  
43
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:06:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
allow for complex “smart contracts”—executable code 
stored in the blockchain.
CryptoKitties was among the first projects to harness smart 
contracts by attaching code to data constructs called tokens, 
on the Ethereum blockchain. Each chunk of the game’s code 
(which it refers to as a “gene”) describes the attributes of a digital 
cat. Players buy, collect, sell, and even breed new felines. Just 
like individual Ethereum tokens and bitcoins, the cat’s code also 
ensures that the token representing each cat is unique, which 
is where the nonfungible token, or NFT, comes in. A fungible 
good is, by definition, one that can be replaced by an identical 
item—one bitcoin is as good as any other bitcoin. An NFT, by 
contrast, has unique code that applies to no other NFT.
There’s one final piece of the blockchain puzzle you need to 
understand: “gas.” Some blockchains, including Ethereum, 
charge a fee for the computational work the network must do to 
verify a transaction. This creates an obstacle to overworking the 
BLOCKCHAINS, SMART CONTRACTS, 
AND CAT GENES
To undersTand the slow death of CryptoKitties, you have to 
start at the beginning. Blockchain technology arguably began 
with a 1982 paper by the computer scientist David Chaum, but 
it reached mainstream attention with the success of Bitcoin, a 
cryptocurrency created by the anonymous person or persons 
known as Satoshi Nakamoto. At its core, a blockchain is a 
simple ledger of transactions placed one after another—not 
unlike a very long Excel spreadsheet.
The complexity comes in how blockchains keep the ledger 
stable and secure without a central authority; the details of 
how that’s done vary among blockchains. Bitcoin, though 
popular as an asset and useful for moneylike transactions, 
has limited support for doing anything else. Newer alterna-
tives, such as Ethereum, gained popularity because they 
O
n 4 sep Tember 2018,  someone known only as Rabono bought an angry cartoon cat 
named Dragon for 600 ethers—an amount of Ethereum cryptocurrency worth about 
US $170,000 at the time, or $745,000 at the cryptocurrency’s value in July 2022. • It was by 
far the highest-priced transaction yet for a nonfungible token (NFT), the then-new concept of 
a unique digital asset. And it was a headline-grabbing opportunity for CryptoKitties, the world’s 
first blockchain gaming hit. But the sky-high cost of the transaction obscured a more difficult truth: CryptoKitties 
was dying, and it had been for some time. • Dragon was never resold—a strange fate for one of the most 
historically relevant NFTs ever. Newer NFTs such as “The Merge,” a piece of digital art that sold for the equivalent 
of $92 million, left Dragon behind as the NFT market surged to record sales, totaling roughly $18 billion in 
2021. Has the world simply moved on to newer blockchain projects? Or is this the fate that awaits all NFTs?
A
L
L
 
I
L
L
U
S
T
R
A
T
I
O
N
S
:
 
D
A
P
P
E
R
 
L
A
B
S
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:06:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
blockchain’s network. High demand means high fees, encour-
aging users to think twice before making a transaction. The 
resulting reduction in demand protects the network from being 
overloaded and transaction times from becoming excessively 
long. But it can be a weakness when an NFT game goes viral.
THE RISE AND FALL 
OF CRYPTOKITTIES
Launched on 28 november 2017 after a five-day closed beta, 
CryptoKitties skyrocketed in popularity on an alluring tagline: 
the world’s first Ethereum game.
“As soon as it launched, it pretty much immediately went 
viral,” says Bryce Bladon, a founding member of the team that 
created CryptoKitties. “That was an incredibly bewildering time.” 
Sales volume surged from just 1,500 nonfungible felines on 
launch day to more than 52,000 on 10 December 2017, accord-
ing to NonFungible.com, with many CryptoKitties selling for 
valuations in the hundreds or thousands of dollars. The value 
of the game’s algorithmically generated cats led to coverage in 
hundreds of publications.
What’s more, the game arguably drove the success of Ethe-
reum, the blockchain used by the game. Ethereum took off like 
a rocket in tandem with the release of CryptoKitties, climbing 
from just under $300 per token at the beginning of November 
2017 to just over $1,360 in January 2018.
Ethereum’s rise continued with the launch of dozens of new 
blockchain games based on the cryptocurrency through late 2017 
and 2018. Ethermon, Ethercraft, Ether Goo, CryptoCountries, 
 CryptoCelebrities, and CryptoCities are among the better-known 
examples. Some arrived within weeks of CryptoKitties.
This was the break fans of Ethereum were waiting for. Yet, in 
what would prove an ominous sign for the health of blockchain 
gaming, CryptoKitties stumbled as Ethereum dashed higher.
Daily sales peaked in early December 2017, then slid into 
January and, by March, averaged less than 3,000. The value of 
the NFTs themselves declined more slowly, a sign the game had 
a base of dedicated fans like Rabono, who bought Dragon well 
after the game’s peak. Their activity set records for the value 
of NFTs through 2018. This kept the game in the news but failed 
to lure new players.
Today, CryptoKitties is lucky to break 100 sales a day, and 
the total value is often less than $10,000. Large transactions, 
like the sale of Founder Cat #71 for 60 ethers (roughly $170,000) 
on 30 April 2022, do still occur—but only once every few 
months. Most nonfungible fur-babies sell for tiny fractions of 
1 ether, worth just tens of dollars in July 2022.
CryptoKitties’ plunge into obscurity is unlikely to reverse. 
Dapper Labs, which owns CryptoKitties, has moved on to proj-
ects such as NBA Top Shot, a platform that lets basketball fans 
purchase NFT “moments”—essentially video clips—from NBA 
games. Dapper Labs did not respond to requests for an inter-
view about CryptoKitties. Bladon left Dapper in 2019.
Each CryptoKitty is a token, a set of data 
on the Ethereum blockchain. Unlike the 
cryptocurrencies Ethereum and Bitcoin, 
these tokens are nonfungible—that is, they 
are not interchangeable.
What’s a 
CryptoKitty?
The kitty’s 
genes 
determine 
its unique 
look.
The unique ID 
makes a 
CryptoKitty a 
nonfungible 
token.
The token 
contains the 
kitty’s lineage 
and other 
data.
Unique ID Mother’s ID, 
father’s ID Genes
SEPTEMBER 2022  SPECTRUM.IEEE.ORG  45
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:06:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Sell 
your kitty
Buy 
a kitty
Give birth 
to a new kitty 
with genes that 
have been mixed 
and mutated
Decide to 
breed your kitty,
pay a sire,
breed, or wait
The Game
The CryptoKitties blockchain game involves collecting, selling, 
and breeding nonfungible felines. The example here assumes 
your kitty is female.
WHAT WENT WRONG?
one cLue To The game’s demise can be found in the last 
post on the game’s blog (4 June 2021), which celebrates the 
breeding of the 2 millionth CryptoKitty. Breeding, a core 
mechanic of the game, lets owners pair their existing NFTs to 
create algorithmically generated offspring. This gave the NFTs 
inherent value in the game’s ecosystem. Each NFT was able to 
generate more NFTs, which players could then resell for profit. 
But this game mechanism also saturated the market. Xiaofan 
Liu, an assistant professor in the department of media and 
communication at City University of Hong Kong who coau-
thored a paper on CryptoKitties’ rise and fall, sees this as a flaw 
the game could never overcome. 
“The price of a kitty depends first on rarity, and that depends 
on the gene side. And the second dimension is just how many 
kitties are on the market,” Liu says. “With more people came 
more kitties.” 
More players meant more demand, but it also meant more 
opportunities to create supply through breeding new cats. This 
quickly diluted the rarity of each NFT.
Bladon agrees with that assessment of the breeding mech-
anism. “I think the criticism is valid,” he says, explaining that 
it was meant to provide a sense of discovery and excitement. 
He also hoped it would encourage players to hold on to NFTs 
instead of immediately selling, as breeding, in theory, provided 
lasting value.
The sheer volume of CryptoKitties caused another, more 
immediate problem: It functionally broke the Ethereum block-
chain, which is the world’s second most valuable cryptocur-
rency by market capitalization (after Bitcoin). As explained 
earlier, Ethereum uses a fee called gas to price the cost of trans-
actions. Any spike in transactions—buying, siring, and so on—
will cause a spike in gas fees, and that’s exactly what happened 
when CryptoKitties went to the moon.
“Players who wanted to buy CryptoKitties incurred high 
gas fees,” Mihai Vicol, market analyst at Newzoo, said in an 
interview. “Those gas fees were anywhere from $100 to $200 
per transaction. You had to pay the price of the CryptoKitty, 
plus the gas fee. That’s a major issue.”
The high fees weren’t just a problem for CryptoKitties. It was 
an issue for the entire blockchain. Anyone who wanted to trans-
46  SPECTRUM.IEEE.ORG  SEPTEMBER 2022
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:06:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
act in Ethereum, for any reason, had to pay more for gas as the 
game became more successful.
This dynamic remains a problem for Ethereum today. On 
30 April 2022, when Yuga Labs released Otherdeeds—NFTs 
that promise owners metaverse real estate—it launched Ethe-
reum gas fees into the stratosphere. The average price of gas 
briefly exceeded the equivalent of $450, up from about $50 
the day before.
Although CryptoKitties’ demands on the network sub-
sided as players left, gas will likely be the final nail in the 
game’s coffin. The median price of a CryptoKitty in the past 
three months is about 0.04 ethers, or $40 to $50, which is 
often less than the gas required to complete the transaction. 
Even those who want to casually own and breed inexpensive 
CryptoKitties for fun can’t do it without spending hundreds 
of dollars.
BLOCKCHAIN GAMES: TWO STEPS 
FORWARD, ONE STEP BACK
The rise and faLL of CryptoKitties was dramatic but gave its 
successors—of which there are hundreds—a chance to learn 
from its mistakes and move past them. Many have failed to 
heed the lessons: Modern blockchain gaming hits such as Axie 
Infinity and BinaryX had a similar initial surge in price and 
activity followed by a long downward spiral. 
“Anything that was emblematic of CryptoKitties’ success 
was aped. Anything that wasn’t immediately visible was mostly 
ignored,” says Bladon. And it turns out many of CryptoKitties’ 
difficulties weren’t visible to the public. “The thing is, the 
 CryptoKitties project did stumble. We had a lot of outages. We 
had to deal with a lot of people who’d never used blockchain 
before. We had a bug that leaked tens of thousands of dollars 
of ether.” Similar problems have plagued more recent NFT 
projects, often on a much larger scale.
Liu isn’t sure how blockchain games can curb this problem. 
“The short answer is, I don’t know,” he says. “The long answer 
is, it’s not just a problem of blockchain games.” 
World of Warcraft, for example, has faced rampant inflation 
for most of the game’s life. This is caused by a constant influx 
of gold from players and the ever-increasing value of new items 
introduced by expansions. The continual need for new players 
and items is linked to another core problem of today’s block-
chain games: They’re often too simple.
“I think the biggest problem blockchain games have right 
now is they’re not fun, and if they’re not fun, people don’t want 
to invest in the game itself,” says Newzoo’s Vicol. “Everyone 
who spends money wants to leave the game with more money 
than they spent.”
That perhaps unrealistic wish becomes impossible once 
the downward spiral begins. Players, feeling no other attach-
ment to the game than growing an investment, quickly flee 
and don’t return.
Whereas some blockchain games have seemingly ignored 
the perils of CryptoKitties’ quick growth and long decline, others 
have learned from the strain it placed on the Ethereum network. 
Most blockchain games now use a sidechain, a blockchain that 
exists independently but connects to another, more prominent 
“parent” blockchain. The chains are connected by a bridge that 
facilitates the transfer of tokens between each chain. This pre-
vents a rise in fees on the primary blockchain, as all game activ-
ity occurs on the sidechain.
Yet even this new strategy comes with problems, because side-
chains are proving to be less secure than the parent blockchain. 
An attack on Ronin, the sidechain used by Axie Infinity, let the 
hackers get away with the equivalent of $600 million. Polygon, 
another sidechain often used by blockchain games, had to patch 
an exploit that put $850 million at risk and pay a bug bounty of 
$2 million to the hacker who spotted the issue. Players who own 
NFTs on a sidechain are now warily eyeing its security.
REMEMBER DRAGON
The crypTocurrency waLLeT that owns the 
 near-million-dollar kitten Dragon now holds barely 30 dollars’ 
worth of ether and hasn’t traded in NFTs for years. Wallets are 
anonymous, so it’s possible the person behind the wallet moved 
on to another. Still, it’s hard not to see the wallet’s inactivity as 
a sign that, for Rabono, the fun didn’t last.
Whether blockchain games and NFTs shoot to the moon or 
fall to zero, Bladon remains proud of what CryptoKitties accom-
plished and hopeful it nudged the blockchain industry in a more 
approachable direction.
“Before CryptoKitties, if you were to say ‘blockchain,’ every-
one would have assumed you’re talking about cryptocurrency,” 
says Bladon. “What I’m proudest of is that it was something 
genuinely novel. There was real technical innovation, and seem-
ingly, a real culture impact.”  
Jun 2018Nov 2017
0
55
Thousands
0.3
1.4
Millions
Ethereum
CryptoKitties
Copycat NFT
games launch
The launch of CryptoKitties drove up the number of 
transactions on the Ethereum blockchain. Even as the 
game’s daily transaction volume plummeted, the number of 
Ethereum transactions continued to rise, possibly because of 
the arrival of multiple copycat NFT games.
Daily Transaction Volume
SEPTEMBER 2022  SPECTRUM.IEEE.ORG  47
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 09:06:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.