Blockchain-Driven Optimal Strategies for Supply Chain Finance Based on a Tripartite Game Model
Citation: Su, L.; Cao, Y.; Li, H.; Tan, J.
Blockchain-Driven Optimal
Strategies for Supply Chain Finance
Based on a Tripartite Game Model. J.
Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res.
2022, 17, 1320–1335. https://
doi.org/10.3390/jtaer17040067
Academic Editor: Jani Merikivi
Received: 10 August 2022
Accepted: 12 October 2022
Published: 16 October 2022
Publisher’s Note: MDPI stays neutral
with regard to jurisdictional claims in
published maps and institutional affil-
iations.
Copyright: © 2022 by the authors.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland.
This article is an open access article
distributed under the terms and
conditions of the Creative Commons
Attribution (CC BY) license (https://
creativecommons.org/licenses/by/
4.0/).
Article
Blockchain-Driven Optimal Strategies for Supply Chain
Finance Based on a Tripartite Game Model
Limin Su 1 , Yongchao Cao 2,*, Huimin Li 3,4 and Jian Tan 5
1 School of Mathematics and Statistics, North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power,
Zhengzhou 450046, China
2 School of Management and Economics, North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power,
Zhengzhou 450046, China
3 Department of Construction Engineering and Management, North China University of Water Resources and
Electric Power, Zhengzhou 450046, China
4 Henan Key Laboratory of Water Environment Simulation and Treatment, Zhengzhou 450046, China
5 Information Office, The First Affiliated Hospital of Zhengzhou University, Zhengzhou 450046, China
* Correspondence: 201610106059@stu.ncwu.edu.cn; Tel.: +86-18638188626
Abstract: Applying blockchain to supply chain financing is an effective way to solve the problems of
financing difficulties, high financing costs, and slow financing for small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMZEs). Using evolutionary game theory, this study constructs a tripartite game model and analyzes
the influence of blockchain technology on the evolutionary stability strategies for financial institutions
(FIs), core enterprises (CEs), and SMZEs, in which the default losses of CEs and SMZEs are assumed
to be dynamic. The results of this study are as follows: (1) When CEs and SMZESs’ default losses are
lower than some critical value, they tend to break their promises. (2) When accounts receivable are
greater than some critical value, CEs cannot repay on time because they can make a relatively large
profits from delayed repayment, whereas SMZEs can be constrained to be trustworthy. Finally, the
results using numerical simulation show that both relatively large default losses and enough large,
trustworthy income sources can make CEs and SMZEs tend to keep their promises; in turn, CEs
would be non-paying and the SMZEs tend to be trustworthy for relatively large accounts receivable.
The results provide theoretical support for realizing healthy and sustainable development for supply
chain finance.
Keywords: supply chain finance; enterprises financing; blockchain; tripartite evolutionary game model
1. Introduction
As the backbone of the economic development of China’s private-owned enterprises,
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMZEs) are facing the problems of financing diffi-
culties [1,2]. Supply chain finance is more inclusive and open to SMZEs, which provides a
solution to the financing problems of SMZEs. However, at present, some serious problems
exist, such as lack of trust in the supply chain, asymmetric information among enter-
prises [3], imperfect access to information, and the reliability of information that cannot
be guaranteed [4], making it impossible for all parties in the supply chain to cooperate
smoothly; indeed, the effect of the supply chain is greatly reduced. There is a natural
fit between the credibility of blockchain technology (BT) and the essence of finance [5].
It is worthwhile to apply BT to innovative supply chain financing models and solve the
dilemma that supply chain financing cannot be used as a direct financing model [6].
Generally, there are three supply chain financing modes: accounts receivable, pre-
payment, and inventory pledge financing [7]. Accounts receivable are the main source of
enterprise repayment in the upstream financial business, while the main source of enter-
prise repayment in the downstream financial business is the sales income of pledged goods,
and banks and other FIs will comprehensively evaluate the financing risks of upstream and
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17, 1320–1335. https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer17040067 https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer
https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer17040067
https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer17040067
https://creativecommons.org/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer
https://www.mdpi.com
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9486-711X
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-7494-6745
https://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer17040067
https://www.mdpi.com/journal/jtaer
https://www.mdpi.com/article/10.3390/jtaer17040067?type=check_update&version=2
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1321
downstream enterprises according to the transactions of accounts receivable and pledged
goods [8]. Obviously, the quality of accounts receivable and sales quota of upstream and
downstream enterprises determine their financing quota and financing risks. However,
in the actual evaluation process, the disorderly judgment and misjudgment of the real
trade situation for the upstream and downstream enterprises above “secondary” happen
because the credit endorsement from core enterprises (CEs) is lacking [1]. Therefore, the cur-
rent supply chain credit mechanism restricts the access of “secondary” and upstream and
downstream enterprises at the end of the supply chain to obtain financial financing services.
Blockchain has immense potential to transform supply chain functions, including
supply chain provenance, business process reengineering, and security enhancement [9].
The endogenous innovative features of blockchain, such as decentralization, consensus
trust, collective supervision, smart contracts, being tamper proof, and traceability [4,10,11],
can effectively fit the characteristics of multi-agent participation and the transmission of
upstream and downstream credit levels by the level of supply chain finance in transactions
and operations [12]. Supply chain finance using BT can ensure the tightness and integrity
of the transaction data provided by each node of the supply chain, which, meanwhile,
also avoids the influence of human factors in the transaction process, and then effectively
ensure the efficient operation of supply chain finance [4]. Supply chain finance using
BT is an innovative way to realize the financing mode of supply chain finance, which
can solve the current problems of financing difficulties and slow financing of SMZEs, as
well as the poor flow of financing information and the destruction of isolated islands of
financing information in the supply chain, so as to reduce the risks of various financing
participants [13].
The information asymmetry among the participants in the current supply chain fi-
nance, such as in FIs such as banks, upstream and downstream CEs, and SMZEs, is the most
important reason for the financing difficulties for the upstream and downstream SMZEs
on the financial platform [14]. The key to solving this blockage is whether the CEs and the
FIs abide by the contract and lend money, respectively. With the empowerment of the BT,
the SMZEs complete transactions by data on the chain in real time, and the credit of CEs
can penetrate the whole chain. Then, the cooperation and credit transmission among all
upstream and downstream enterprise nodes of supply chain finance can be achieved, which
makes up for the shortcomings of supply chain financing for SMZEs [4]. From a theoretical
perspective, with the increasing number of supply chain financial nodes, especially with
the embedding of traditional FIs, Internet finance, blockchain system platforms, and other
subjects, it will be better to obtain a trade background of supply chain financial nodes and
verify the authenticity of the transactions. However, since the power mechanism for CEs
to participate in supply chain finance is insufficient and there are few excellent CEs, how
to construct a participation power mechanism to encourage CEs to participate in supply
chain finance is one of the restrictive factors [2]. Using evolutionary game theory and
assuming bounded rationality for all parties, the utilities or benefits of all parties involved
in the game reach an equilibrium in a process of continuous learning and adaptation, which
compensates for the deficiency in traditional game theory in that all parties involved in
the game are completely rational. Due to the bounded rationality of all participants, one
of the parties participating in the game often adjusts its own behavior strategy based on
observing and learning other parties’ behavioral strategies.
Based on the above analysis, although the existing literature provides a rich theoret-
ical reference on supply chain finance, the following aspects still need further research:
(1) Compared to the static default losses of SMZEs and CEs in existing research, the default
losses are essentially dynamic for SMZEs and CEs in supply chain financing, which needs
to develop new approaches to reflect the dynamic characteristics of default losses of SMZEs
and CEs in supply chain financing. (2) Evolutionary game theory is used to study supply
chain financing strategies, which mainly consider two or three game subjects, and an
in-depth discussion on supply chain financing strategies among more game subjects should
be enriching.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1322
Therefore, to solve the above problems, this study aims to develop a tripartite dynamic
game model and analyze the supply chain financing strategies of FIs, SMZEs, and CEs. The
main objectives of this study are as follows. Firstly, this study constructs a supply chain
financing framework for the behavior strategies of FIs, SMZEs, and CEs. Second, this study
develops a dynamic game model integrated with blockchain technology among FIs, SMZEs
and CEs. Finally, this study analyzes the influences on the behavior strategies of FI, SMZE,
and CE for supply chain financing using BT.
The rest of this study is organized as follows. Section 2 provides a literature review
of supply chain finance, “blockchain + supply chain” finance, and evolutionary game
theory. The problem description is stated in Section 3. Section 4 constructs the game
theory model, including the basic assumptions, and the various analyses of the proposed
models. Section 5 provides the simulation analysis and implications of the results, with the
conclusions given in Section 6.
2. Literature Review
This section mainly involves three aspects: supply chain finance, “blockchain + supply
chain” finance, and evolutionary game theory, which provide a rich theoretical basis for
the rest of this study.
2.1. Supply Chain Finance
The supply chain finance business has developed rapidly, which is showing a rising
trend year by year [15]. Supply chain finance mainly involves SMZEs, CEs, and FIs. Based
on the operations of enterprises in the supply chain, supply chain finance optimizes
the capital flow and promotes the overall development of the supply chain through the
innovation and management of financial business. It not only alleviates the financing
pressure of SMZEs but also strengthens the trade relations between enterprises, which
realizes the common flow of information, logistics, and capital among upstream and
downstream enterprises in the supply chain, so as to provide a new development path for
solving the financing difficulties of SMZEs and reducing the financing risks of FIs [2].
Scholars at home and abroad have done a lot of research on supply chain finance.
Blackman et al. [16] studied the development model of supply chain finance under the
background of globalization and found that the supply chain finance model can accelerate
payment efficiency and weaken the supply chain financial risk. Sang-Bing Tsai [17] pointed
out that banks can link CEs and upstream and downstream enterprises with the help
of supply chain finance and provide them with a variety of supply chain products and
services. Wang et al. [18] thought that supply chain finance has always been regarded as
an important intersection of supply chain management and trade finance. Fu et al. [19]
explained that the endogenous risk in supply chain finance mainly refers to the imperfect
information in the supply chain and the information asymmetry among users in the supply
chain. Information asymmetry will cause enterprises to choose between trustworthiness
and defaults, which leads to unsuccessful cooperation. It is inevitably accompanied by
risks, since supply chain finance is a credit model. For the risk prevention of supply chain
finance, Gomm Moritz Leon [13] considered that the principal agent problem is one of
the main reasons for the financial risk in the supply chain. According to Gomm Moritz
Leon [13], the principal agent problem is one of the primary causes of financial risk in the
supply chain. Sang [20] used genetic algorithms, support vector machines, and the BP
neural network to assess the financial credit risk of the supply chain. Wang [21] studied the
credit risk prevention of SMZEs financing from the perspective of supply chain finance. The
existing research provides powerful theoretical support for banks to reduce the probability
of profit damage and improve profitability.
At present, although much research on supply chain finance has solved the problems
of financing difficulties for SMZEs to a certain extent, supply chain finance also has many
restrictive factors, such as difficult authorization of CEs, low transparency of business
processes, difficult accurate positioning and traceability of responsibilities, cumbersome
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1323
transaction procedures, and so on. It is obvious that some new methods and technologies
are needed to overcome these constraints.
2.2. “Blockchain + Supply Chain” Finance
The blockchain platform plays an active role in solving problems, such as information
asymmetry, and will gradually become an important business strategic deployment of
FIs in the future [1]. At present, research enterprises using BT have reached strategic
cooperation intentions with many banks, small loan companies, trusts, insurance, and
guarantee companies to jointly build an alliance chain, providing rich soil for the smooth
application of BT to supply chain financial business.
At present, BTs have four main ways to promote the development of supply chain
finance, including a distributed ledger to solve information asymmetry, data traceability
to help enterprise supervision, decentralization to improve clearing and settlement effi-
ciency, and smart contract technology to solve operational risks [1,22]. For the current
disassembled credit problems of the inability of CEs in China’s supply chain financial
market, Chen et al. [12] provided a new perspective for the bottleneck of supply chain
financial development by introducing BTs. Omran et al. [23] developed a conceptual frame-
work for a blockchain-driven supply chain financial solution, which aims to promote the
coordination of the relationship between buyers and sellers and improve the efficiency of
supply chain finance. Jang [24] believed that banking has become the core technology of
the global financial market due to the financial trend with BT, and blockchain will be most
actively applied to the financial industry, and its growth potential will be very large in the
future. Hofmann et al. [25] pointed out that the blessing of BT can benefit all participants
in the supply chain, which is not only conducive to improving the transaction efficiency
of financial businesses but also in reducing the financing cost of enterprises. Through the
research and analysis of the technical characteristics of blockchain, Malik Nida et al. [26]
clearly pointed out that information encryption, distributed storage, and decentralized
structure are conducive to improving the security factor of the supply chain system.
In a word, the existing research on blockchain in supply chain finance mainly focuses
on mechanism design [10,27], application optimization [28], and technology optimization.
However, it is not sufficient that the analyses coordinate evolutionary financing strategies
based on tripartite game theory for supply chain finance using BT.
2.3. Evolutionary Game Theory
All parties involved in the game are assumed to have bounded rationality in evolu-
tionary game theory [29], and they dynamically reach equilibrium through the process of
continuous learning and adaptation, which compensates for the deficiency in traditional
game theory that all parties involved in the game are completely rational. Since the game
participants are bounded by rationality, one of them in the process of the evolutionary game
often adjusts its own behavior strategy through observing and learning other participants’
behavioral strategies [30]. Therefore, the behavioral strategy selection of each participant
in the game is uncertain. One of the most important features in evolutionary games is the
adaptability of their strategies with time [31].
Recently, game theory has been widely used in supply chain finance. On the one hand,
the default loss in SMZEs will have an impact on whether the CEs continue to cooperate
with them in the later stage and then affect the selection of strategies for SMZEs; on the
other hand, whether FIs are willing to make loans depends not only on the credit situation
of CEs and whether they prefer to vouch for SMZEs, but also on the early credit situation
of SMZEs. Yan et al. [32] studied a supply chain financed by retailers, manufacturers,
and commercial banks with limited funds and formulated a two-tier Strackelberg with
banks as leaders. Based on the game model, a sensitivity analysis of the manufacturer’s
guarantee coefficient and the retailer’s initial capital was carried out. In order to explore
the impact of capital constraints and loss avoidance on supply chain operation decisions,
Zhang et al. [33] discussed a supply chain with capital constraints and determined the
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1324
optimal pricing and ordering decisions through the Strackelberg game. By constructing an
asymmetric evolutionary game model, Zhang et al. [34] analyzed the evolutionary stability
strategies of banks, suppliers, and retailers. By introducing CEs into the traditional accounts
receivable financing model, Yan et al. [35] constructed an evolutionary game model and
analyzed the strategic decisions of banks, SMZEs, and CEs.
Based on the above analysis of the literature, it is obvious that evolutionary games are
able to analyze the evolutionary strategies of FIs, CEs, and SEZMs. The existing research
on supply chain financing mainly focuses on the game between FIs and CEs, or between
CEs and SEZMs, which can not comprehensively characterize the interactive influence of
strategies among all game subjects. Therefore, combining the advantages of evolutionary
games theory and BTs, this study will try to develop an evolutionary game model through
considering FIs, CEs, and SEZMs, and analyze the tripartite strategies of supply chain
finance empowering BTs. The research will provide insights into the long-term development
of the accounts receivable financing mode.
3. Problem Descriptions
Based on the above analysis, this section will give the descriptions of problem. The
terminologies and symbols used in this study are also explained before constructing the
evolutionary game model.
3.1. Basic Descriptions of Problem
To explore this conveniently, this study assumes that the supply chain for SMZEs
financing includes a FI, a CE, and a SEZM, which were obtained by selecting representative
ones in groups of FIs, CEs, and SEZMs. For traditional supply chain financing, the default
records can not be shared in real time across the entire network or even be tampering or
denial, since the enterprise credit information is asymmetric [36]. Furthermore, each loan
issued by the FI needs to pay the marginal credit audit cost. If the FI chooses to supply
chain financing with BT, automatic credit review can be realized based on its consensus
mechanism, which can not only improve the efficiency of the transactions and coordination
in the whole supply chain but also reduce the occurrence of the enterprises’ defaults, so as
to promote the win–win cooperation of all participants. Considering the existence of the
debt relationship between CE and FI, if the CE fails to repay, the FI will claim against the
SMZE for the principal and interest on the loan.
With the help of the BT, all transaction information for CE and SMZE in the supply
chain is verified and distributed by the whole network. If the CE and SMZE keep the
contract, they will obtain cooperative and trustworthy benefits. On the contrary, once they
are found to have default behaviors, they need to pay large default losses. In addition,
through empowering BT in the supply chain, the SMZE in the supply chain can directly
borrow from the FI through digital vouchers, which can not only alleviate the difficulties in
credit investigation and guarantee their financing but also improve the financing efficiency.
So, it virtually increases the benefits of SMZE. The flow chart of the supply chain financing
using BT is shown in Figure 1.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1325JTAER 2022, 17, FOR PEER REVIEW 6 
 
 
 
Figure 1. The flow chart of supply chain financing using BT. 
3.2. Basic Descriptions of Terminologies and Symbols 
In this subsection, the following will first explain the main terminologies used in 
this study. 
(I) Supply chain finance: Supply chain finance is a mode in which two or more internal 
and external entities in the supply chain circulate financial resources within the 
supply chain organization through the design and implementation of management 
activities to create value through collaboration. 
(II) Pledge rate: Pledge rate refers to the ratio of loan principal to the market value of 
the standard warehouse receipt, which is generally determined fairly based on the 
price difference between the futures and spot, the price fluctuation range, the trend, 
and other factors. 
(III) Accounts receivable: Accounts receivable refers to the amount that an enterprise 
should collect from the purchasing unit due to the sale of goods, products, services, 
and other businesses in the normal course of business. 
(IV) Loan interest rate: The loan interest rate refers to the ratio of the interest amount to 
the principal amount during the loan term. The level of the loan interest rate di-
rectly determines the proportion of profits between the borrowing enterprises and 
banks, thus affecting the economic interests of both the borrowers and lenders. 
(V) Return on investment: Return on investment refers to the value that should be re-
turned through investment; that is, the economic return of an enterprise from an 
investment activity. It covers the profit objectives of enterprises. 
Additionally, the parameter symbols and their meanings used in this study are 
shown in Table 1. 
  
Figure 1. The flow chart of supply chain financing using BT.
3.2. Basic Descriptions of Terminologies and Symbols
In this subsection, the following will first explain the main terminologies used in
this study.
(I) Supply chain finance: Supply chain finance is a mode in which two or more internal
and external entities in the supply chain circulate financial resources within the supply
chain organization through the design and implementation of management activities
to create value through collaboration.
(II) Pledge rate: Pledge rate refers to the ratio of loan principal to the market value of the
standard warehouse receipt, which is generally determined fairly based on the price
difference between the futures and spot, the price fluctuation range, the trend, and
other factors.
(III) Accounts receivable: Accounts receivable refers to the amount that an enterprise
should collect from the purchasing unit due to the sale of goods, products, services,
and other businesses in the normal course of business.
(IV) Loan interest rate: The loan interest rate refers to the ratio of the interest amount to
the principal amount during the loan term. The level of the loan interest rate directly
determines the proportion of profits between the borrowing enterprises and banks,
thus affecting the economic interests of both the borrowers and lenders.
(V) Return on investment: Return on investment refers to the value that should be
returned through investment; that is, the economic return of an enterprise from an
investment activity. It covers the profit objectives of enterprises.
Additionally, the parameter symbols and their meanings used in this study are shown
in Table 1.
Table 1. The parameter symbols and their meanings.
Symbols Meanings
de
ci
si
on
va
ri
ab
le
s
a Pledge rate required by the FI, which is a constant
R Accounts receivable held by the SMZE
i Loan interest rate of the FI
rs
Investment return rate of the SMZEs after obtaining
accounts receivable pledge financing
C Marginal credit audit cost of the FIs under
traditional supply chain financing
G
The blockchain and supply chain collaborative
and trustworthy incentive income with both the SMZE
being trustworthy and the CE choosing repayment
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1326
Table 1. Cont.
Symbols Meanings
pl
ai
n
pa
ra
m
et
er
s
k Proportion of collaborative and trustworthy
incentive income for the SMZE
G
The blockchain and supply chain collaborative and
trustworthy incentive income with both the SMZE being
trustworthy and the CE choosing repayment
rh
Return rate of reinvestment after deferred payment
of accounts payable by the CE
M, m Default loss of the SMZE under supply chain financing
using BT and the traditional way (TW)
N, n Default loss of the CE under supply chain financing
using BT and TW
G1
The extra benefits of the SMZE under supply chain
financing using BT
4. Model Development
This section will build a game model among the FI, CE, and SMZE using evolutionary
game theory and will thoroughly discuss how all participants can achieve a stable cooper-
ation state of evolutionary and coexistence with every participant’s bounded rationality.
Some assumptions using the construction of the tripartite game model of FI, CE, and SMZE
are given first.
4.1. Basic Assumptions
Assumption 1: Assume that the FI, CE, and SMZE are three participants in the game,
and, under the condition of incomplete information, all parties seek to maximize their own
benefits or utility [30].
Assumption 2: The strategy selection of the SMZE is trustworthiness (A1) or defaults
(A2); the strategy selection of the FI is supply chain financing using BT (B1) or supply
chain financing using TW (B2); and the strategy selection of the CE is repayment (C1) or
non-repayment (C2).
Assumption 3: Assume that the SMZE will obtain an extra benefit due to the im-
provement in financing efficiency when the FI selects the supply chain financing using
BT. Otherwise, if the SMZE breaches the contract, then the SMZE will be paid by the FI
according to the principal of the pledge financing.
Assumption 4: The probabilities of the supply chain financing using BT (B1) and
using TW (B2) selected by the FI are x and 1− x; the probabilities of trustworthiness (A1)
and defaults (A2) selected by the SMZE are y and 1− y; and the probabilities of repayment
(C1) and non-repayment (C2) selected by the CE are z and 1− z.
Assumption 5: Assume that the FI chooses supply chain financing using BT, and the
default loss of the SMZE and non-repayment loss of the CE are adversely related to their
probabilities of keeping their promises. Naturally, the default losses of the SMZE and non-
repayment of the CE have changed from the fixed constants M and N to M(y) = (1− y)M
and N(z) = (1− z)N, respectively.
Based on the above assumptions, the profit matrix of the tripartite game is shown
in Table 2.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1327
Table 2. The profit matrix of the tripartite game.
Strategies
FI
B1
x
B2
1−x
CE
C1
z SMZE
A1
y
aRi
Rrh + (1− k)G
aR(rs − i) + G1 + kG
aRi− C
Rrh
aR(rs − i)
A2
1− y
R
0
aR(1 + rs)−M
R− C
0
aR(rs + 1)−m
C2
1− z SMZE
A1
y
aR(1 + i)
R(1 + rh)− N
aR(rs − i− 1)
aR(1 + i)− C
R(1 + rh)− n
aR(rs − i− 1)
A2
1− y
0
R(1 + rh)− N
aR(1 + rs)− R−M
−C
R(1 + rh)− n
aR(1 + rs)− R−m
4.2. Evolutionary Analysis of Tripartite Game Model with the Dynamic Default Losses
of Enterprises
This subsection will analyze the reliability of the evolutionary game model based on
the stability analysis of equilibrium points [37]. The replicated dynamic equation (RDE) is
first constructed according to the profit matrix of the tripartite game. Then, whether the
equilibrium points are evolutionary stable strategies need to be discussed, as it depends on
the local stability of the Jacobian matrix corresponding to the tripartite evolution system.
Specifically, the evolutionary stable strategy is judged by the determinant and trace of
the Jacobian matrix at the corresponding equilibrium point. If the determinant at one
equilibrium point is larger than zero and the trace at the same equilibrium point is smaller
than zero, then, simultaneously, this equilibrium point is an evolutionary stable strategy.
(I) Analysis of the evolutionary equilibrium for the FI.
From Table 2, the expected profits of the FI selecting strategies (B1) and (B2) are
Φ11 = zyaRi + z(1− y)R + (1− z)y(aR(1 + i)), (1)
Φ12 = zy(aRi− C) + z(1− y)(R− C) + (1− z)y(aR(1 + i)− C)− C(1− z)(1− y), (2)
and the average profits in both cases is
Φ1 = xΦ11 + (1− x)Φ12. (3)
Thus, the RDE of the FI selecting strategy (B1) is
C(x) =
dx
dt
= x
(
Φ11 −Φ1
)
= x(1− x)C
Taking the first-order derivative with respect to x in C(x), the following equation can
be obtained:
dC(x)
dx
= C(1− 2x)
Obviously, dC(x)
dx > 0 when x = 0, and dC(x)
dx < 0 when x = 1.
Therefore, x = 1 is an evolutionary stable strategy.
(II) Analysis of evolutionary equilibrium for the CE.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1328
From Table 2, the expected profits of the CE selecting strategies (C1) and (C2) are
Φ21 = yx(Rrh + (1− k)G) + y(1− x)Rrh
Φ22 = yx
(
R(1 + rh)− N
)
+ y(1− x)(R(1 + rh)− n)
+x(1− y)
(
R(1 + rh)− N
)
+ (1− y)(1− x)(R(1 + rh)− n)
and the average profits in both cases is
Φ2 = zΦ21 + (1− z)Φ22
Thus, the RDE of the CE selecting strategy (C1) is
C(z) =
dz
dt
= z
(
Φ21 −Φ2
)
= z(1− z)(xy(1− k)G + x(N − Ny− n)− R− Rrh + Rrhy + n)
Let x0 = (1+rh−rhy)R−n
((1−k)G−N)y+N−n , and for the case of x = x0, no matter what value of z is
taken, the strategic choices of CE are stable, since C(z) = 0. Otherwise, for the case of
x 6= x0, two stable points z = 0 and z = 1 are obtained through setting C(z) = 0.
Taking the first-order derivative with respect to z in C(z), the following equation can
be obtained:
dC(z)
dz
= (1− 2z)(xy(1− k)G + x(N − Ny− n)− R− Rrh + Rrhy + n)
Obviously, for the case of x > x0, when z = 0, dC(z)
dz > 0; and when z = 1, dC(z)
dz < 0. So
z = 1 is the evolutionary stable strategy. Similarly, for the case of x < x0, the evolutionary
stable strategy is z = 0.
From the evolutionary equilibrium analysis for the CE, it was found that the CE’s
profits increase with the collaboration and trustworthiness income obtained by empowering
blockchain to supply chain finance, and then the CE will be increasingly keen to choose
repayment. Meanwhile, if the probability of trustworthiness chosen by the SMZE is large,
then the CE will get relatively large profits as long as it chooses repayment. Furthermore,
when the accounts receivable from the SMZE are relatively few and the default losses of
non-repayment is relatively large, the CE also chooses repayment.
Additionally, the same argument is also discussed for y0 = R+Rrh−(N−n)x−n
Gx−Gxk−Nx+Rrh
, but
which will not be discussed in detail here.
(III) Analysis of evolutionary equilibrium for the SMZE
From Table 2, the expected profits of the SMZE selecting strategies (A1) and (A2) are
Φ31 = zx(aR(rs − i) + G1 + kG) + z(1− x)aR(rs − i)
+(1− z)x(aR(rs − i− 1)) + (1− z)(1− x)aR(rs − i− 1)
Φ32 = zx
(
aR(1 + rs)−M
)
+ z(1− x)(aR(rs + 1)−m)
+x(1− z)
(
aR(1 + rs)− R−M
)
+ (1− z)(1− x)(aR(1 + rs)− R−m)
and the average profits in both cases is
Φ3 = yΦ31 + (1− y)Φ32
Thus, the RDE of the SMZE selecting strategy (B1) is
C(y) = dy
dt = y
(
Φ31 −Φ3
)
= y(1− y)(G1zx + zxkG + Mx−Myx−mx− aRi− zaR− Rz + R + m)
Let x0 = aRi+zaR+Rz−R−m
(G1+kG)z−My+M−m , and for the case of x = x0, no matter what value of y is
taken, the strategic choices of SMZE are stable since C(y) = 0. Otherwise, for the case of
x 6= x0, two stable points y = 0 and y = 1 are obtained through setting C(y) = 0.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1329
Taking the first-order derivative with respect to y in C(y), the following equation can
be obtained:
dC(y)
dy
=(1− 2y)((G1z + zkG + M−My−m)x− aRi− (aR + R)z + R + m)−Mxy(1− y)
Obviously, for the case of x > x0, when y = 0, dC(y)
dy > 0; when y = 1, dC(y)
dy < 0. So,
y = 1 is the evolutionary stable strategy. Similarly, for the case of x > x0, the evolutionary
stable strategy is y = 0.
From the evolutionary equilibrium analysis of SMZE, it was found that the SMZE
tends to choose trustworthiness when both its extra income and the collaboration and
trustworthiness income obtained by empowering blockchain to supply chain finance
increase. The SMZE also chooses trustworthiness if CE prefers repayment.
Additionally, the same argument is also discussed for z0 = mx−Mx+Myx+aRi−R−m
G1x+xkG−aR−R , but
which will not be discussed in detail here.
(IV) Equilibrium analysis of the tripartite evolutionary game.
The critical conditions and paths of the evolutionary strategies of the tripartite subjects
were analyzed, as well as the influence of the relevant factors on their evolutionary stable
strategies. The evolutionary stable strategies and different equilibrium states under the
joint action of tripartite subjects are discussed below. The replication dynamic equations
for the FI, CE and SMZE are
C(x) = dx
dt = x(1− x)C
C(z) = dz
dt = z(1− z)(G(1− k)yx + ((1− z)N − n)x− R− Rrh + Rrhy + n)
C(y) = dy
dt = y(1− y)((G1 + kG)zx + (a− 1)Rz + (1− ai− 2a)R + (1− y)Mx−mx + m)
Afterwards, the Jacobian matrix of the tripartite evolutionary system is as follows:
J1 =

∂C(x)
∂x
∂C(x)
∂z
∂C(x)
∂y
∂C(z)
∂x
∂C(z)
∂z
∂C(z)
∂y
∂C(y)
∂x
∂C(y)
∂z
∂C(y)
∂y
 =
a11 a12 a13
a21 a22 a23
a31 a32 a33

where
a11 = (1− 2x)C; a12 = 0; a13 = 0;
a21 = z(1− z)(G(1− k)y + (1− z)N − n);
a22 = (1− 2z)(G(1− k)yx + (1− z)Nx− nx− R− Rrh + Rrhy + n)− zNx(1− z);
a23 = z(1− z)(G(1− k)x + Rrh);
a31 = y(1− y)((G1 + kG)z + (1− y)M−m);
a32 = y(1− y)((G1 + kG)x + (a− 1)R);
a33 = (1− 2y)((G1 + kG)zx + (a− 1)Rz + (1− ai− 2a)R + (1− y)Mx−mx + m)
−y(1− y)Mx.
The evolutionary stable strategies obtained from the above RDE can be determined
by the determinant and trace of the corresponding Jacobian matrix J1. Specifically, the
determinant and trace of the Jacobian matrix J1 need to simultaneously satisfy det(J1) > 0
and Tr(J1) < 0 [38]. Through calculating the determinant and trace of the Jacobian matrix
at the eight local equilibrium points, namely, E1(0, 0, 0), E2(0, 0, 1), E3(0, 1, 0), E4(0, 1, 1),
E5(1, 0, 0), E6(1, 0, 1), E7(1, 1, 0) and E8(1, 1, 1), and substituting the eight equilibrium
points into the Jacobian matrix J1, respectively, the eigenvalues of the Jacobian matrix
J1 corresponding to the equilibrium weight points were obtained, as shown in Table 3.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1330
Table 3. System equilibrium points and eigenvalues.
Equilibrium Points Eigenvalue λ1 Eigenvalue λ2 Eigenvalue λ3
E1(0, 0, 0) C n− R− Rrh (1− ai− 2a)R + m
E2(0, 0, 1) C n− R aRi + 2aR− R−m
E3(0, 1, 0) C R + Rrh − n −aiR− aR + m
E4(0, 1, 1) C R− n aiR + aR−m
E5(1, 0, 0) −C N − R− Rrh R− aiR− 2aR + M
E6(1, 0, 1) −C G(1− k) + N − R 2aR− R + aiR
E7(1, 1, 0) −C R + Rrh G1 − aiR− aR + M + kG
E8(1, 1, 1) −C R− (1− k)G (1 + i)aR− (G1 + kG)
4.3. Influence Analysis of Blockchain on the Parameters and Equilibrium Results
This section will further analyze the influence of blockchain technology on the param-
eters and evolutionary stable strategies based on the results in Table 3.
(1) Blockchain affects the equilibrium by increasing the default losses, and relatively
large default losses make the CE and SMZE tend to keep their promises.
From the above results, for the conditions N < R + Rrh and R + M < aiR + 2aR, the
stable strategy of the system corresponds to the equilibrium point E5(1, 0, 0). Specifically,
the financial institution prefers supply chain finance using BTs, and CEs and SMZEs tend
towards non-repayment and default, respectively. From the results, it can be seen that,
for the smaller non-repayment and default losses, M and N simultaneously, the CEs and
SMZEs tend to break their promises in the financing process.
(2) Blockchain affects the equilibrium by decreasing the accounts receivable, and the
CEs would be non-payment and the SMZEs tends to be trustworthy for relatively large
accounts receivable.
For G(1− k) + N < R and 2aR + aiR < R, the stability strategy of the system cor-
responds to the equilibrium point E6(1, 0, 1); that is, the CEs and SMZEs tend to be non-
repayment and trustworthy, respectively, when FI prefers supply chain finance using BTs.
For a relatively large accounts receivable, the CEs can obtain a relatively large income from
delayed payment of accounts receivable, which would make it impossible to make the
repayment chosen by the CEs in time. Meanwhile, a relatively large accounts receivable,
which is greater than the principal and interest of a loan from FI, can constrain the choice
of the SMZEs to be trustworthy.
(3) Blockchain affects the equilibrium by increasing the trustworthy incentive profits,
and enough large trustworthy incentive profits from the supply chain using BTs would
make the CEs and SMZEs tend to keep their promises.
If R < (1− k)G and (1 + i)aR < G1 + kG, the stability strategy of the system corre-
sponds to the equilibrium point E8(1, 1, 1). FI prefers supply chain financing using BT, and
CEs and SMZEs tend towards repayment and trustworthy, respectively. Obviously, the
sufficiently large trustworthy incentive income from the supply chain finance using BT
gives enough large benefits for the CEs and SMZEs, which would generate a strong drive to
keep their promises. Specifically, the trustworthy incentive income is larger than accounts
receivable for CEs, and meanwhile, the sum of the extra benefit and trustworthy incentive
income is larger than the principal and interest of the loan from the financial institution for
the SMZEs.
5. Simulation Analysis and Implications of the Results
This section will analyze the impact path of evolutionary game strategies under the
different main parameters for the results obtained in Section 4, and some implications of
the results are also given.
5.1. Analysis the Impact Path of Evolutionary Game Strategies under Different Main Parameters
(I) Effects of different default losses on evolutionary game strategies
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1331
The collective supervision and maintenance and consensus trust mechanism of BT
enable SMZEs to deposit and share their bad credit records across the network once they
breach the contract, which cannot be denied or tampered with, and may even permit no
longer obtain financing, so as to achieve the joint dishonesty punishment effect of “one
dishonesty, everywhere blocked”. Under supply chain finance using BTs, excessive default
losses make CEs and SMZEs obtain smaller profits, respectively. As shown in Figure 2, for
the relatively small default losses, SMZEs and CEs naturally tend to choose the default
strategy, such as satisfying the conditions N < R + Rrh and R + M < aiR + 2aR, for which
the stable strategy of the system is E5(1, 0, 0), whose strategy set is (B1, C2, A2).
JTAER 2022, 17, FOR PEER REVIEW 13 
 
 
for which the stable strategy of the system is ( )5 1,0,0E , whose strategy set is (B1, C2, 
A2). 
 
Figure 2. Effects of different default losses on evolutionary game strategies. 
(II) Effects of different accounts receivable on evolutionary game strategies 
With the application of blockchain in supply chain finance, the electronic voucher of 
accounts receivable is split and circulated many times, which can place enterprises fur-
ther away from the supply chain for obtaining more credit. The smaller the single ac-
counts receivable held by the SMZEs, the lower the single amount of loans from FIs. 
Therefore, the “speculative” income of the SMZEs obtained from debt evasion may be 
less than the default cost, which leads to a reduction in the possibility of default. Thus, a 
relatively small accounts receivable, for example, the conditions ( ) 11 i aR kG G+ < +  or 
2R M aiR aR+ < + , will give SMZEs the motivation to keep their promises, as shown in 
Figure 3. With supply chain finance using BTs, FIs have more power to carry out small 
and decentralized inclusive financial services, so as to expand the coverage of supply 
chain financial services, form a virtuous circle, and meet the financing needs of more 
SMZEs on the premise of effective risk control. 
Figure 2. Effects of different default losses on evolutionary game strategies.
(II) Effects of different accounts receivable on evolutionary game strategies
With the application of blockchain in supply chain finance, the electronic voucher
of accounts receivable is split and circulated many times, which can place enterprises
further away from the supply chain for obtaining more credit. The smaller the single
accounts receivable held by the SMZEs, the lower the single amount of loans from FIs.
Therefore, the “speculative” income of the SMZEs obtained from debt evasion may be
less than the default cost, which leads to a reduction in the possibility of default. Thus, a
relatively small accounts receivable, for example, the conditions (1 + i)aR < G1 + kG or
R + M < aiR + 2aR, will give SMZEs the motivation to keep their promises, as shown in
Figure 3. With supply chain finance using BTs, FIs have more power to carry out small
and decentralized inclusive financial services, so as to expand the coverage of supply chain
financial services, form a virtuous circle, and meet the financing needs of more SMZEs on
the premise of effective risk control.
(III) Effects of different trustworthy incentive incomes on evolutionary game strategies
Supply chain finance using BT can help the whole supply chain to establish a reliable
information system and an efficient credit-sharing mechanism. The CEs and SMEs are more
likely to keep their promises if they receive a relatively large share of the trustworthiness
incentive income, such as, if the condition R < (1− k)G or (1 + i)aR < G1 + kG is satisfied,
the stable strategy of the system is E8(1, 1, 1), whose strategies set is (B1, C1, A1) for three
participants. On the basis of the credit-sharing mechanism, the trustworthiness incentive is
finally reflected in the improvement in financing efficiency and the reduction in financing
costs, so that SMEs with good credit can truly enjoy inclusive financial services, and CEs
can also share the benefits of improving supply chain synergy efficiency, and FIs can expand
the coverage of supply chain financial services and promote win–win cooperation among
all parties (Figure 4).
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1332
JTAER 2022, 17, FOR PEER REVIEW 14 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Effects of different accounts receivables on evolutionary game strategies. 
(III) Effects of different trustworthy incentive incomes on evolutionary game strate-
gies 
Supply chain finance using BT can help the whole supply chain to establish a relia-
ble information system and an efficient credit-sharing mechanism. The CEs and SMEs are 
more likely to keep their promises if they receive a relatively large share of the trust-
worthiness incentive income, such as, if the condition ( )1R k G< −  or ( ) 11 i aR kG G+ < +  
is satisfied, the stable strategy of the system is ( )8 1,1,1E , whose strategies set is (B1, C1, 
A1) for three participants. On the basis of the credit-sharing mechanism, the trustwor-
thiness incentive is finally reflected in the improvement in financing efficiency and the 
reduction in financing costs, so that SMEs with good credit can truly enjoy inclusive fi-
nancial services, and CEs can also share the benefits of improving supply chain synergy 
efficiency, and FIs can expand the coverage of supply chain financial services and pro-
mote win–win cooperation among all parties (Figure 4). 
 
Figure 4. Effects of different trustworthy incentive incomes on evolutionary game strategies. 
5.2. Implications of the Results 
From the results obtained above, some implications are given: 
Figure 3. Effects of different accounts receivables on evolutionary game strategies.
JTAER 2022, 17, FOR PEER REVIEW 14 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Effects of different accounts receivables on evolutionary game strategies. 
(III) Effects of different trustworthy incentive incomes on evolutionary game strate-
gies 
Supply chain finance using BT can help the whole supply chain to establish a relia-
ble information system and an efficient credit-sharing mechanism. The CEs and SMEs are 
more likely to keep their promises if they receive a relatively large share of the trust-
worthiness incentive income, such as, if the condition ( )1R k G< −  or ( ) 11 i aR kG G+ < +  
is satisfied, the stable strategy of the system is ( )8 1,1,1E , whose strategies set is (B1, C1, 
A1) for three participants. On the basis of the credit-sharing mechanism, the trustwor-
thiness incentive is finally reflected in the improvement in financing efficiency and the 
reduction in financing costs, so that SMEs with good credit can truly enjoy inclusive fi-
nancial services, and CEs can also share the benefits of improving supply chain synergy 
efficiency, and FIs can expand the coverage of supply chain financial services and pro-
mote win–win cooperation among all parties (Figure 4). 
 
Figure 4. Effects of different trustworthy incentive incomes on evolutionary game strategies. 
5.2. Implications of the Results 
From the results obtained above, some implications are given: 
Figure 4. Effects of different trustworthy incentive incomes on evolutionary game strategies.
5.2. Implications of the Results
From the results obtained above, some implications are given:
(1) FIs actively carry out small and decentralized inclusive financial services, which
will help them achieve the goal of digital inclusive finance and meet the financing needs
of short, small, frequent, and urgent for SMZEs. The application of BT has realized the
effective splitting and credible circulation of CEs with the electronic vouchers of accounts
receivable as the carrier, so that the credit of CEs is transmitted to the far end without
attenuation, which can solve the financing problems of more SMZEs and expand the
coverage of supply chain financial services [39]. Thus, financing services with small, high-
frequency, and low-cost to SMZEs holding accounts receivable after multiple splits and
circulation are provided to FIs.
(2) Incentive compatibility mechanisms should be designed to promote the evolution
of the tripartite game system for FIs, CEs, and SMZEs to an ideal “tripartite trustworthiness”
equilibrium. To encourage CEs and SMZEs to keep their promises, the collaborative and
trustworthy income incentive should be increased and obtained at a reasonable distribu-
tion [40]. The characteristics of a perfect incentive compatibility mechanism are reflected
in that the trustworthy incentive income plays an important role in the SMZEs’ financing
process, while the cost of credit management in the supply chain for CEs is reduced and
their willingness to participate in supply chain finance using BT is improved.
(3) The default losses in CEs and SMZEs should be increased, and a new ecosystem of
trust network among participants should be built. Through the innovative characteristics
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1333
of blockchain, the default losses in CEs and SMZEs are greatly increased, which will
also improve the level of supervision for FIs and the efficiency of financing and lending.
Furthermore, it is more helpful to promote the deep integration of blockchain and supply
chain finance, and then break the trustworthy “shackles” among all subjects [14,41].
6. Conclusions
Supply chain finance using BT provides a new way to solve the financing difficulties
and expensive problems of SMZEs to some extent. This study aimed at developing a
dynamic evolutionary game model among a FI, CE, and SMZE. Combining with MATLAB,
optimal equilibrium strategies of the tripartite game were simulated, so as to provide
theoretical significance for the benign development of supply chain finance.
The results of this study are as follows. Firstly, whether the CE and SMZE break their
promises depends on the relationship between the default losses and accounts receivable.
When default losses of the CE and SMZE are lower than some critical value, such as
N < R + Rrh or R + M < aiR + 2aR, they tend to break their promises, and the converse is
also true. Secondly, the optimal strategies of the CE and SMZE mainly depend on whether
the accounts receivable are large. A relatively large accounts receivable will make SMZEs
tend to be trustworthy, while the CE will tend towards non-payment. Third, the difference
between the accounts receivable and trustworthy incentive income motivates CEs and
SMZEs to choose whether to keep their promises or not. When the shared trustworthy
incentive income is larger than the accounts receivable for the CE and SMZE, such that
R < (1− k)G and (1 + i)aR < G1 + kG, both of them will choose to keep their promises
actively. Actually, these results are consistent with the realistic situation, in which FIs, CEs,
and SMZEs would choose “tripartite-win” strategies.
Meanwhile, the main contributions of this study are as follows: (1) To reveal the
internal mechanism of influence on supply chain financing strategies, an innovative frame-
work integrated with blockchain technology and the behaviors of FIs, SMZEs, and CEs
was constructed. The problem of supply chain financing strategies is transformed into
a tripartite game problem, which can broaden the thinking and approach to solving the
problem of supply chain financing. (2) The dynamic game model among FI, SMZE, and CE
was developed to discuss the restraint and incentive mechanisms of supply chain financing
for participants in the game process. In this study, we analyzed the influences on the
supply chain financing strategies of a FI, SMZE, and CE under different key factors and
explained the dynamic evolution paths of supply chain financing strategies. It eases the
financing pressure of SMZEs and CEs, and also provides a new theoretical reference to
realize the financing innovation of empowering blockchain to supply chain financing for
SMZEs and CEs.
Although this study has achieved some results, it still has the following limitations:
(1) The parameters influencing the selection of financing strategies for CEs and SMZEs are
not fully considered. Other factors, such as enterprises’ reputation and the uncertainty
of the market environment, should be considered for the supply chain financing strategy
selection. (2) When considering the tripartite game, this study chose a representative
FI, CE, and SMZE as the main game subjects, while the interaction influences within
groups of the FIs, CEs, and SMZEs on the financing strategies were ignored. Additionally, a
dynamic incentive mechanism needs to be designed due to the uncertainties of the economic
environment and potential risks. Meanwhile, other blockchain-related works, such as
autonomy and protection [42], privacy [43], smart payment [44], and user spectra [45],
should be taken into account in future research. Additionally, other new technologies, such
as 5G, the Internet of Things, and big data, also need to be integrated with supply chain
finance. These are some future research needs that need to be explored from the perspective
of this study.
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1334
Author Contributions: Conceptualization, L.S. and Y.C.; methodology, L.S.; software, Y.C.; validation,
L.S., Y.C. and H.L.; formal analysis, H.L.; investigation, L.S.; writing—original draft preparation, L.S.
and Y.C.; writing—review and editing, L.S., Y.C., H.L. and J.T.; funding acquisition, Y.C. and H.L. All
authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript.
Funding: This research was funded by National Natural Science Foundation of China (NO.72271091);
Key Scientific Research Project of Universities in Henan Province, (No.23A630009); Doctoral Innova-
tion Fund of North China University of Water Resources and Electric Power.
Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable.
Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable.
Data Availability Statement: Not applicable.
Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no conflict of interest.
Abbreviations
SMZEs Small and medium-sized enterprises
FIs Financial institutions
CEs Core enterprises
BT Blockchain technology
TW Traditional way
RDE Replicated dynamic equation
References
1. Sun, R.; He, D.; Su, H. Evolutionary game analysis of blockchain technology preventing supply chain financial risks. J. Theor.Appl.
Electron. Commer. Res. 2021, 16, 2824–2842. [CrossRef]
2. Wu, S.; Mu, P.; Shen, J.; Wang, W. An incentive mechanism model of credit behavior of SMEs based on the perspective of credit
default swaps. Complexity 2020, 2020, 1–8. [CrossRef]
3. Li, Q.; Ji, H.; Huang, Y.M. The information leakage strategies of the supply chain under the block chain technology introduction.
Omega 2022, 110, 102616. [CrossRef]
4. Li, J.; Zhu, S.C.; Zhang, W.; Yu, L. Blockchain-driven supply chain finance solution for small and medium enterprises. Front. Eng.
Manag. 2020, 7, 500–511. [CrossRef]
5. Liu, L.; Li, Y.; Jiang, T. Optimal strategies for financing a three-level supply chain through blockchain platform finance. Int. J.
Prod. Res. 2021. Early Access. [CrossRef]
6. Yin, Y. Analysis of revenue incentive dynamic mechanism of financial supply chain from the perspective of the inter-net of things.
Complexity 2021, 2021, 5595979. [CrossRef]
7. Li, X. Debt financing cost evaluation method of shipping enterprises. J. Coast. Res. 2020, 103, 744–748. [CrossRef]
8. Wang, X.; Han, L.; Huang, X. Bank market power and SME finance: Firm-bank evidence from European countries. J. Int.
Financ.Mark.Inst. Money 2020, 64, 101162. [CrossRef]
9. Dutta, P.; Choi, T.M.; Somani, S.; Butala, R. Blockchain technology in supply chain operations: Applications, challenges and
research opportunities. Transp. Res. Part E: Logist. Transp. Rev. 2020, 142, 102067. [CrossRef]
10. Gayialis, S.P.; Kechagias, E.P.; Papadopoulos, G.A.; Masouras, D. A Review and Classification Framework of Traceability
Approaches for Identifying Product Supply Chain Counterfeiting. Sustainability 2022, 14, 6666. [CrossRef]
11. Gayialis, S.P.; Kechagias, E.P.; Konstantakopoulos, G.D.; Papadopoulos, G.A.; Tatsiopoulos, I.P. An approach for creating
a blockchain platform for labeling and tracing wines and spirits. In IFIP International Conference on Advances in Production
Management Systems, 5–9 September 2021, Nantes, France; IFIP Advances in Information and Communication Technology; Springer:
Berlin, Germany, 2021; pp. 81–89.
12. Chen, J.; Chen, S.; Liu, Q.; Shen, M. Applying blockchain technology to reshape the service models of supply chain finance for
SMEs in china. Singap. Econ. Rev. 2021, 1–18. [CrossRef]
13. Gomm, M.L. Supply chain finance: Applying finance theory to supply chain management to enhance finance in supply chains.
Int. J. Logist. Res. Appl. 2010, 13, 133–142. [CrossRef]
14. Du, M.; Chen, Q.; Xiao, J.; Yang, H.; Ma, X. Supply chain finance innovation using blockchain. IEEE Trans. Eng. Manag. 2020,
67, 1045–1058. [CrossRef]
15. Xu, X.; Chen, X.; Jia, F.; Brown, S.; Gong, Y.; Xu, Y. Supply chain finance: A systematic literature review and biblio-metric analysis.
Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2018, 204, 160–173. [CrossRef]
16. Blackman, I.D.; Holland, C.P.; Westcott, T. Motorola’s global financial supply chain strategy. Supply Chain. Manag. Int. J. 2013,
18, 132–147. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.3390/jtaer16070155
http://doi.org/10.1155/2020/6639636
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.omega.2022.102616
http://doi.org/10.1007/s42524-020-0124-2
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2021.2001601
http://doi.org/10.1155/2021/5595979
http://doi.org/10.2112/SI103-153.1
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.intfin.2019.101162
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.tre.2020.102067
http://doi.org/10.3390/su14116666
http://doi.org/10.1142/S0217590821480015
http://doi.org/10.1080/13675560903555167
http://doi.org/10.1109/TEM.2020.2971858
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2018.08.003
http://doi.org/10.1108/13598541311318782
J. Theor. Appl. Electron. Commer. Res. 2022, 17 1335
17. Tsai, S.B. A study on the service quality and competitive strategies of internet financing and FinTech from the perspective of
internet finance law. In Economics and Management Innovations (ICEMI); Volkson Press: Cyberjaya, Malaysia, 2017; pp. 378–380.
18. Wang, Z.; Wang, Q.; Lai, Y.; Liang, C. Drivers and outcomes of supply chain finance adoption: An empirical investigation in
China. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2020, 220, 107453. [CrossRef]
19. Fu, Y.; Zhu, J. Big production enterprise supply chain endogenous risk management based on blockchain. IEEE Access 2019,
7, 15310–15319. [CrossRef]
20. Sang, B. Application of genetic algorithm and BP neural network in supply chain finance under information sharing. J. Comput.
Appl. Math. 2021, 384, 113170. [CrossRef]
21. Wang, Y. Research on supply chain financial risk assessment based on blockchain and fuzzy neural networks. Wirel. Commun.
Mob. Comput. 2021, 2021, 5565980. [CrossRef]
22. Kim, K.; Lee, G.; Kim, S. A study on the application of blockchain technology in the construction industry. KSCE J. Civ. Eng. 2020,
24, 2561–2571. [CrossRef]
23. Omran, Y.; Henke, M.; Heines, R.; Hofmann, E. Blockchain-driven supply chain finance: Towards a conceptual framework from a
buyer perspective. In Proceedings of the 26th Annual IPSERA Conference, Budapest, Hungary, 9–12 April 2017.
24. Jang, K.J. The a study on innovative financial services of business models using blockchain technology. E-Bus. Stud. 2017,
18, 113–130. [CrossRef]
25. Hofmann, E.; Strewe, U.M.; Bosia, N. Supply Chain Finance and Blockchain Technology; Springer: Berlin, Germany, 2018.
26. Malik, N.; Alkhatib, K.; Sun, Y.; Knight, E.; Jararweh, Y. A comprehensive review of blockchain applications in industrial internet
of things and supply chain systems. Appl. Stoch. Model. Bus. Ind. 2021, 37, 391–412. [CrossRef]
27. Thurner, T. Supply chain finance and blockchain technology—the case of reverse securitisation. Foresight 2018, 20, 447–448.
[CrossRef]
28. Babich, V.; Hilary, G. Distributed ledgers and operations: What operations management researchers should know about blockchain
technology. Manuf. Serv. Oper. Manag. 2019, 22, 223–240. [CrossRef]
29. Friedman, D. Evolutionary games in economics. Econometrica 1991, 59, 637–666. [CrossRef]
30. Wang, J.; Peng, X.; Du, Y.; Wang, F.; Dnes, A. A tripartite evolutionary game research on information sharing of the subjects
of agricultural product supply chain with a farmer cooperative as the core enterprise. Manag. Decis. Econ. 2021, 43, 159–177.
[CrossRef]
31. Sun, H.; Wan, Y.; Zhang, L.; Zhou, Z. Evolutionary game of the green investment in a two-echelon supply chain un-der a
government subsidy mechanism. J. Clean. Prod. 2019, 235, 1315–1326. [CrossRef]
32. Yan, N.; Sun, B.; Zhang, H.; Liu, C. A partial credit guarantee contract in a capital-constrained supply chain: Financing equilibrium
and coordinating strategy. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2016, 173, 122–133. [CrossRef]
33. Zhang, B.; Wu, D.; Liang, L.; Olson, D.L. Supply chain loss averse newsboy model with capital constraint. IEEE Trans.
Syst.ManCybernetics: Syst. 2016, 46, 646–658. [CrossRef]
34. Zhang, B.; Ye, Y.; Yue, X. Evolutionary strategies of supply chain finance from the perspective of a return policy. IEEE Access 2019,
7, 110761–110769. [CrossRef]
35. Yan, B.; Chen, Z.; Yan, C.; Zhang, Z.; Kang, H. Evolutionary multiplayer game analysis of accounts receivable financing based on
supply chain financing. Int. J. Prod. Res. 2021. Early Access. [CrossRef]
36. Li, X.Y. Analysis of SME financing model from the perspective of supply chain finance. Int. Core J. Eng. 2020, 6, 115–117.
37. Aimin, D.; Bo, Y. Research overview of risk management of SMEs accounts receivable financing based on supply chain finance.
World J. Res. Rev. 2017, 4, 16–20.
38. Khalil, H.K.; Grizzle, J.W. Nonlinear Systems; Michigan State University: Prentice Hall, NJ, USA, 2002.
39. Zhang, T.L.; Li, J.J.; Jiang, X. Analysis of supply chain finance based on blockchain. Procedia Comput.Sci. 2021, 187, 1–6. [CrossRef]
40. Jiang, R.; Kang, Y.; Liu, Y.; Liang, Z.; Duan, Y.; Sun, Y.; Liu, J. A trust transitivity model of small and medium-sized manufacturing
enterprises un-der blockchain-based supply chain finance. Int. J. Prod. Econ. 2022, 247, 108469. [CrossRef]
41. Paliszkiewicz, J.; Chen, K. Trust, Organizations and the Digital Economy: Theory and Practice; Routledge: London, UK, 2021.
42. Corradini, E.; Nicolazzo, S.; Nocera, A.; Ursino, D.; Virgili, L. A two-tier Blockchain framework to increase protection and
autonomy of smart objects in the IoT. Comput. Commun. 2022, 181, 338–356. [CrossRef]
43. Nicolazzo, S.; Nocera, A.; Ursino, D.; Virgili, L. A privacy-preserving approach to prevent feature disclosure in an IoT scenario.
Future Gener. Comput. Syst. - Int. J. Escience 2020, 105, 502–519. [CrossRef]
44. Wu, L.; Lu, W.; Xu, J. Blockchain-based smart contract for smart payment in construction: A focus on the payment freezing and
disbursement cycle. Front. Eng. Manag. 2022, 9, 177–195. [CrossRef]
45. Bonifazi, G.; Corradini, E.; Ursino, D.; Virgili, L. Defining user spectra to classify Ethereum users based on their behavior. J. Big
Data 2022, 9, 1–39. [CrossRef]
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2019.07.026
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2895327
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.cam.2020.113170
http://doi.org/10.1155/2021/5565980
http://doi.org/10.1007/s12205-020-0188-x
http://doi.org/10.20462/TeBS.2017.12.18.6.113
http://doi.org/10.1002/asmb.2621
http://doi.org/10.1108/FS-08-2018-099
http://doi.org/10.1287/msom.2018.0752
http://doi.org/10.2307/2938222
http://doi.org/10.1002/mde.3365
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.jclepro.2019.06.329
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2015.12.005
http://doi.org/10.1109/TSMC.2015.2475720
http://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2019.2934514
http://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2021.1976432
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2021.04.025
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.ijpe.2022.108469
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.comcom.2021.10.028
http://doi.org/10.1016/j.future.2019.12.017
http://doi.org/10.1007/s42524-021-0184-y
http://doi.org/10.1186/s40537-022-00586-3
	Introduction 
	Literature Review 
	Supply Chain Finance 
	“Blockchain + Supply Chain” Finance 
	Evolutionary Game Theory 
	Problem Descriptions 
	Basic Descriptions of Problem 
	Basic Descriptions of Terminologies and Symbols 
	Model Development 
	Basic Assumptions 
	Evolutionary Analysis of Tripartite Game Model with the Dynamic Default Losses of Enterprises 
	Influence Analysis of Blockchain on the Parameters and Equilibrium Results 
	Simulation Analysis and Implications of the Results 
	Analysis the Impact Path of Evolutionary Game Strategies under Different Main Parameters 
	Implications of the Results 
	Conclusions 
	References