Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel Network
Collusion Attack from Hubs
in The Blockchain Offline Channel
Network
Subhasis Thakur and John G. Breslin
Abstract Offline channels can improve the scalability of blockchains by reducing
the number of transactions in the blockchain. Offline channels provide Path-Based
fund Transfer (PBT) service which allows a pair of peers without a mutual channel to
transfer fund between them using paths in the channel network. In PBTs, peers allow
a 3rd party to use their channel for fund transfer in exchange for a transfer fee. There
are channels in theBitcoin Lightning networkwhich are designed to collect such PBT
transfer fees. An analysis of Bitcoin’s Lightning network revealed the existence of
hubs or nodes with very high degree in the channel network. There are only 10 nodes
who own more than 50% funds in the Lightning network. These nodes are designed
to facilitate PBTs among peers with a low degree (number of channels) in exchange
for transfer fees. The emergence of hubs in channel network created the possibility of
collusion attack on the channel network where a group of hubs deliberately make few
channels non-operational to prevent PBTs involving a selected set of hubs (victims of
the collusion attack). In this paper, we model such collusion attack using cooperative
game theory and using Banzhaf index we classify the vulnerability of the hubs from
the collusion attacks. We propose a design principle of the channel network that can
decrease the possibility of collusion attacks.
Keywords Offline channels · Blockchain · Collusion · Banzhaf index
1 Introduction
Scalability is a prominent issue in the blockchain.WhileMastercard processes 50,000
transactions per second, Bitcoin processes 7 and Ethereum processes 15 transac-
tions per second. Offline channel [1] is a useful tool to improve the scalability of
S. Thakur · J. G. Breslin (B)
National University of Ireland, Galway, Ireland
e-mail: john.breslin@nuigalway.ie
S. Thakur
e-mail: subhasis.thakur@nuigalway.ie
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2020
P. Pardalos et al. (eds.), Mathematical Research for Blockchain Economy,
Springer Proceedings in Business and Economics,
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-37110-4_3
31
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-030-37110-4_3&domain=pdf
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-6579-724X
http://orcid.org/0000-0001-5790-050X
mailto:john.breslin@nuigalway.ie
mailto:subhasis.thakur@nuigalway.ie
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-37110-4_3
32 S. Thakur et al.
blockchains. A pair of peers only need to broadcast two transactions to open and
close a channel between them. A channel (theoretically) supports an infinite num-
ber of transactions between them. Channels offer offline Path-Based fund Transfer
(PBT) service [2]. A PBT uses a path in the offline channel network for fund transfer
between two parties who do not have a channel. Examples of offline channel net-
works are Lightning Network for Bitcoin, the Raiden Network [3] for Ethereum and
SilentWhispers [2] for credit networks.
Peers allow PBT execution through their channels in exchange for small transfer
fee. Hence PBT can be a source of revenue. While ordinary peers with limited funds
cannot establish a great number of channels for the purpose of generating revenue,
there are financial entities (with access to significant funding) who can establish
offline channels for the sole purpose of collecting the PBT transfer fees. In Bitcoin
Lightning network we witnessed this phenomenon. There are only 10 nodes with
control of more than 50% funds available in the Lightning network. These nodes
have a very high degree. We refer to these high degree nodes as the hubs.
Hubs can improve the performance of the offline channels by reducing the PBT
completion time and improving the success rate of PBT execution. But it brings a new
form of collusion attack on the channel network. In a collusion attack, a collusion
(a group of hubs) can make few channels non-operational to prevent PBTs among
a set of targeted hubs. The targeted hubs are the victim of the collusion attack. The
objective of this paper is to investigate how such a collusion attack can be executed
in the channel network and develop a mechanism that can lower the possibility of
such anattack. We have the following results in this paper:
1. We present a mathematical model of collusion attack on the channel network.
We use cooperative game theory and coalitional power index (Banzhaf index) [4,
5] to model collusion attacks. We model a collusion as a coalition and Banzhaf
index gives the estimation on the importance of a hub’s participation in a collusion
attack.
2. We present a model of the likelihood of collusion attack among the hubs in a
channel network using Banzhaf indices.
3. We analyze the possibility collusion attack in the Bitcoin’s Lightning network.
We found that there are 62 nodes who can execute collusion attacks against 90%
of their neighbors in the Lightning network.
The paper is organized as follows: In Sect. 2 we discuss related literature, in Sect. 3
we present the collusion attack problem, in Sect. 4 we present a method to evaluate
the possibility of collusion attack in a channel network, in Sect. 5we present amethod
to lower the possibility of collusion attack, in Sect. 6 we evaluate Bitcoin’s Lightning
network to evaluate possibility of collusion attacks and we conclude the paper in
Sect. 7.
Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel … 33
2 Related Literature
In this paper, we study an attack model in the offline channel network. Offline
channels are designed to improve the scalability of blockchains. Examples of such
developments are as follows: Bitcoin Lightning network was proposed in [1] which
allows peers to create and transfer funds among them without frequently updating
the blockchain. Similar networks are proposed for Ethereum [3] and credit networks
[2]. A privacy-preserving payment method in the credit network was proposed in [6].
Recent advances on the offline channel network are focused on the development of
routing protocols for offline channels. Examples of such routing protocols are as fol-
lows: A method for anonymous payment to improve privacy in PBT was developed
in [7]. Grunspan and Pérez-Marco [8] proposed a decentralised routing algorithm
for the channel network.
Current research in the offline channel network for blockchains is focused on
developing better routing protocols for balancing the channels, privacy preserving
routing and fast routingprotocols.But there is a lackof analysis on the collusion attack
that hubs in a channel network can orchestrate. In this paper we analyze collusion
attacks among the hubdds in a blockchain peer to peer network. The collusion attack
is similar to eclipse attack. Heilman et al. [9] analysed eclipse attack [10, 11] on
Bitcoin network and it proposed appropriate countermeasures. Nayak et al. [12]
analyzed a combination of selfish mining and eclipse attack on blockchain peer to
peer network. In this paper, we analyze collusion attack among hubs in the blockchain
network instead of analyzing eclipse attack on the entire peer to peer network. We
perform such analysis as we observed centralization of the channel network. Our
results can characterize the effect of centralisation in the channel network. We will
use the Banzhaf index to characterize collusion attacks. Bachrach and Rosenschein
[5] analyzed Banzhaf podddwer indices for network flow games and [4] analyzed
Banzhaf power indices for network connectivity games. These research have proved
that it is NP-hard to compute the Banzhaf index.
3 Collusion Attacks
First, we present an analysis of the Bitcoin’s Lightning network to illustrate the
existence of hubs in the channel network. Next, we present the model of collusion
attack on the channel network.
3.1 Hubs in Bitcoin Lightning Network
We use the Bitcoin Lightning network data [13] to explain the existence of hubs.
The dataset has 2810 nodes and 22,596 edges. The average degree of nodes is 16
34 S. Thakur et al.
Fig. 1 Degree distribution
of bitcoin lightning network
data. It shows the existence
of very high degree nodes
0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500
0
20
0
40
0
60
0
80
0
Nodes
D
eg
re
e
(shown in Fig. 1). If we consider nodes with a degree more than 50 as hubs then, there
are 168 hubs. Collusion is a coalition among the hubs which can prevent PBTs for
the remaining hubs. A collusion attack can be executed by creating a cut the channel
network.
Collusion is a group of hubs in the channel network who aim to prevent PBTs
between a pair of targeted hubs or victims of the collusion attack.Wewill describe the
model of collusion using a neighbourhood of a chosen hub. The neighbourhood will
be restricted by the maximum distance from the hub. This will allow us to evaluate
the potential of a hub to orchestrate a collusion attack in its neighbourhood. In the
next Section we will define such collusion and we will define the potential of a peer
to organise collusion as it Banzhaf index. Banzhaf index measures the value of a hub
in a coalition (collusion) as it evaluates if the coalition will remain successful (to
execute a collusion attack) if this hub leaves the coalition.
3.2 Models of Collusion Attack
Let G = (V, E) be a directed graph with n nodes V representing the hubs of the
channel network and m edges E representing the channels among the hubs. Let Gi
be the subgraph induced by the vertices who are at most k edges apart from Vi ∈ V
(including Vi ) on the graph G where k is a positive integer less than diameter of G.
Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel … 35
Fig. 2 Example of a collusion centred at Vi that includes Vi , V1, V2, V3 and V4. The collusion
produces a cut between Va and Vb in Gi
Fig. 3 The collusion is the set of hubs V1, V2, V3, V4, Vi and the victim of the collusion are the
hubs Va, Vb, Vc, Vd , Ve, V f . Weight of the collusion is 3 as it disconnects 3 pairs of hubs
V i will denote the set of nodes at most k edges apart from Vi or the set of vertices of
the subgraph Gi .
We will define collusions w.r.t any specific node Vi to use the subgraph Gi . A
collusion is a subset of nodes V i such that:
1. It can produce a cut between a pair of hubs (or more pairs of hubs) in Gi . This
pair of hubs is the victim of the collusion attack as PBTs between them will not
be executed in Gi .
2. The hubs in the collusion have additional channels to allow the flow of tokens
through them.
We formally define collusion (shown in Figs. 2, 3 and 4) as follows:
Definition 1 In a hub network G = (V, E), a collusion C centred at Vi is a subset
of V i such that the following holds:
1. Vi ∈ C .
2. |C | ≤ δ where δ is a positive integer.
3. Let F ⊂ E be the set of edges originating from any Vx ∈ C .
36 S. Thakur et al.
Fig. 4 The collusion is the set of hubs V1, V2, V3, V4, Vi and the victim of the collusion are the
hubs Va, Vb. Vi is a critical player as the collusion will fail if Vi leaves
4. There exists a pair of nodes (Va, Vb) ∈ V i − C such that there cut F ′ ⊂ F where
the source is Va and sink is Vb.
5. There is a path in F − F ′ that connects every node inC to any node Vx ∈ V − V i .
The explanation of the above notion of collusion attack is as follows:
1. We define a collusion w.r.t a node Vi . It helps us to define the set of collusions
where Vi can have significant contributions.
2. We restrict the size of collusions using the parameter δ.
3. We restrict the size of a subgraph that collusion can control by the parameter k. If
collusion can produce a cut between Va and Vb in the subgraph Gi then it means
there is no path in G with distance less than the distance between Va and Vb in
Gi . It means if the collusion blocks the paths between Va and Vb in Gi then cost
of PBT transfer between Va and Vb is increased by the PBT transfer fee of at least
one more channel. Hence a collusion attack can at least increase the cost of PBTs
between the victims even if the collusion could not completely prevent any PBTs
among its victims.
4. Finally, collusion must have a path to the hubs outside the subgraph Gi despite
closing certain channels to execute the collusion attack. It is needed for executing
the set of PBTs that the collusion allows.
Definition 2 Weight of a collusionC ⊂ V i is the number of pairs of nodes for which
the collusion can produce cuts.
Now we define collusion formation game as a cooperative game.
Definition 3 A collusion formation game produces a set of collusions denoted as the
set {(C, Vi )} where C ⊂ V i is the collusion centred at Vi as the result of cooperation
among the members of each collusion. The value of a collusion is defined by the
function θ as follows:
θ(C) =
{
1 if C can produce a cut for a pair of hubs (Va, Vb) ∈ V i − C
0 Otherwise
(1)
Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel … 37
Now we define the importance of a hub in a collusion.
Definition 4 In a collusion (C, V i ), a hub Vx ∈ C is a critical player if θ(C) = 1
and θ(C − Vx ) = 0 indicating that the collusion becomes unsuccessful if Vx leaves
the collusion. The number of collusions centred at Vi where Vi is a critical player is
denoted by ∇i .
Now we define the Banzhaf index of a hub for a collusion formation game as
follows:
Definition 5 Banzhaf index of the player Vi in the collusion formation game is
βi = ∇i∑
Vx∈V i ∇x
(2)
Note that we restrict the definition of the power of a hub within the subgraph in
which it forms collusion. This is because the same subgraph is valid where the hub
will be a victim of another collusion attack. Next, we will discuss the algorithm to
compute the Banzhaf index.
4 Potential of Collusion Attacks
In this Section, we discuss a method to evaluate the possibility of executing collusion
attack in a channel network. First, we will discuss the algorithm to compute Banzhaf
index for collusion attack as defined in the previous Section. It should be noted
that the computation complexity of computing Banzhaf index is NP-hard [14]. In
this paper, we will use Algorithm1 to estimate Banzhaf indices. The explanation of
Algorithm1 is as follows:
1. In a subgraph Gi centerd at Vi , we compute the number of collusions (subsets of
nodes in Vi with maximum cardinality k) where Vi is a critical player.
2. It should be noted that if the number of nodes in Gi is x then the number of
collusions where Vi is a member is
x !
(x − k)!k! − (x − 1)!
(x − 1 − k)!k! (3)
(x − 1)!
(x − 1 − k)!k! [
x
x − k
− 1] (4)
The number of possible collusions which includes Vi is very large. It is computa-
tionally difficult to test all such collusions to check if Vi is a critical player. Hence
instead of checking all collusions we only check the collusions created by a set
of random walks from Vi .
38 S. Thakur et al.
Algorithm 1: Computation of Banzhaf index
Data: Hub network as G = (V, E)
Result: Banzhaf indices of V as {βi }
begin
Score ← a vector of length n
for Each Vi ∈ V do
Gi ← induced subgraph on G by nodes within distance k from Vi
d1 ← degree of Vi in Gi
d2 ← is the diameter of Gi
Groups ← a d1 × d2
N ← neighbours of Vi in Gi
j ← 1
for Each Vx ∈ N do
Groups[ j, ] ← outcome of a random walk of length k1
Remove edges in the path Groups[ j, ] from Gi
j + +
for j in [1: size of set Groups] do
C ← j’th row of the matrix Groups
H ← created by deleting edges from these vertices with vertices outside C
H ′ ← created by deleting edges from the vertices C − Vi with vertices outside C
if Is.connected(H) == FALSE & Is.connected(H’) == TRUE then
Score[i] ← Score[i] + 1
for Each Vi do
βi = Score[i]∑
Vx∈V i Score[x]
3. For each node Vi we create x random walks where x is the degree of Vi in the
graph V i .
4. For the set of vertices in each such random walk,
Case 1 We compute the if the deletion of the edges from the set of vertices
in each random walk (treated as collusion) to the remaining vertices of V i
(victims of the collusion attack) disconnects the graph Gi .
Case 2 Next, we compute if such disconnection of the graph is possible with-
out Vi .
5. Vi is a critical player if Case 1 is true and Case 2 is false. Using such information
we compute the Banzhaf indices for all hubs.
Nowwe define the potential of collusion attack in the channel network as follows:
Definition 6 The potential of collusion attack in a channel network can be esti-
mated by the standard deviation of Banzhaf indices of hubs. High standard deviation
indicates that there are few hubs who can easily execute collusion attack while the
remaining hubs are unlikely to execute collusion attack.
Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel … 39
Fig. 5 Relation between degree of an attacker and probability of successful attack: it shows the
worst case scenario for Vi as a critical player to execute a collusion attack against Va and Vb
5 Method to Reduce Possibility of Collusion Attacks
Theorem 1 The probability that a hub can successfully execute a collusion attack
increases as its degree increases.
Proof Let the collusion C is the set Vi ∪ (V1, V2, . . . , Vx ) and it wants to execute
a collusion attack against the pair of hubs (Va, Vb) in the subgraph Gi . The attack
scenario is illustrated in Fig. 5. Let Va is at a distance k − 1 from Vi and Vb is adjacent
to Vi . In this scenario, we will estimate the size of collusion needed to execute an
attack against the pair of hubs (Va, Vb) by Vi . As shown in Fig. 5 the set of collusion
is V1, . . . , Vx . In the worst case, the number of such collusion is the number of leaf
nodes of a tree from Va with depth k − 2. Hence the number of nodes is
X = 1 + d + d2 + · · · + dk−2 = dk−2 − 1
d − 1
(5)
where d is the average degree of the hub network. Hence in the worst case Vi needs
cooperation from dk−2−1
d−1 hubs to attack the pair (Va, Vb). Note that, Vi can have di
neighbours (degree of Vi inGi ). The relation between degree of Vi and the probability
that Vi can attack on the pair (Va, Vb) is as follows:
1. Vi may execute the attack if di < dk−2−1
d−1 . It means if Vi has sufficient number of
neighbours to form collusion then it can orchestrate such an attack.
2. The probability that Vi has can execute the attack depends on the probability that
each node V1 to Vx has Vi as its neighbour. The probability that the node V1 is a
neighbour of Vi is di d−1
dk−1 where dk−1
d−1 is the estimated number of edges in Gi .
3. Hence the probability that Vi can execute the attack is [di d−1
dk−1 ]X
4. Thus the probability that Vi can successfully attack the pair of hubs (Va, Vb)
increases with the degree of Vi .
40 S. Thakur et al.
Theorem 2 If hubs of the hub network have a uniform degree then, Banzhaf indices
are approximately equal.
Proof Note that Banzhaf index of a hub depends on the number of collusions where
it is a critical player. As proved in the previous theorem, higher the degree higher
the probability that a hub can successfully execute a collusion attack. It proves that
if the degree of nodes is equal then they will be equally likely to execute successful
collusion attacks. Hence their Banzhaf indices will be approximately equal.
We propose that uniform Banzhaf indices may prevent collusion attacks in the
hub network. This claim is based on the following observations:
1. In order to detect collusion attack, a hub must observe where its PBT requests are
denied in the network. If the network is synchronous then it is a trivial problem.But
in an asynchronous network, such detection problem is non-trivial. The collusion
detection problem can be formulated as the problem of finding black holes in
the network. Block holes are the nodes in a network who destroy mobile agent
visiting the node. The collusion detection problem can be formulated as a block
hole search problem where mobile agents are network probes. The complexity of
this search problem is NP-hard [15, 16]. But several approximation algorithms
exist for both synchronous and asynchronous networks [17].
2. If the Banzhaf indices are approximately equal then it means if hub Va can attack
hub Vb then Vb can also execute a collusion attack against Va .
3. Hence equal Banzhaf indices will bring an ‘equilibrium’ in the sense that if Va
attacks Vb then Va can reciprocate such action. Hence it will prevent the hubs
from orchestrating collusion attacks.
6 Evaluation with Bitcoin Lightning Network
In this paper, we discussed a model of collusion attack in the offline channels for
blockchains. We proved that (a) hubs will have approximately equal Banzhaf indices
if their degrees are the same and (b) if hubs have equal Banzhaf indices then they are
less likely to initiate a collusion attack.Wemeasure the uniformity of Banzhaf indices
as its standard deviation. In this Section, we perform an experimental evaluation of
Algorithm1 and we measure the Banzhaf index of nodes in the Bitcoin Lighting
network. We have the following objectives in this experimental evaluation:
1. Prove the correctness of Algorithm1 which measures the Banzhaf index.
2. Measure the Banzhaf indices of hubs in the Lightning network.
3. Explore the correlation between the uniformity of Banzhaf indices and diameter
of a channel network.
We use Bitcoin Lightning network data [13] to analyze collusion attacks. Bitcoin
lightning network graph [13] provided an API to access the Lightning network data.
The downloaded data is in JSON format and RJSONIO package was used to process
Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel … 41
the data. The data contains (a) information about each node, i.e., public key and
(b) network structure as the edge list. The data was accessed on 1st March 2019.
It should be noted that the current size of Lightning network is slightly larger. The
data contains the network structure of the Lightning network and it has the following
properties:
# Nodes # Edges Avg. degree Min. degree Max. degree
2810 22,596 16 1 961
In the experimental evaluation, we execute Algorithm1 using the above data as
the input. First, we will evaluate the accuracy of Algorithm1. We have proved that a
peer’s Banzhaf index depends on its degree. Greater the degree higher the Banzhaf
index. We create a hub network by selecting nodes with a degree in the ranges
(30, 100) from the Lightning network data. In this network, we execute Algorithm1
to estimate the Banzhaf indices of the nodes. The result of such estimation is shown
in Fig. 6. It shows that as degree of hubs decreases the Banzhaf index also decreases.
Figure 6 provides empirical evidence for the accuracy of Algorithm1.
Next, we explore the relation between the diameter of a channel network and
the uniformity of Banzhaf indices. We generate 17 hub networks from the Light-
ning network by selecting nodes with minimum degree 30 and maximum degree
50, 55 . . . 135 respectively. We increase the maximum degree of hub network to
increase the diameter of the network (a subgraph of the hub network) as we want
Fig. 6 The Figure shows the
relationship between the
Banzhaf index and degree of
the nodes (normalized to the
range [0, 1])
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
0.
0
0.
2
0.
4
0.
6
0.
8
1.
0
Hubs
B
an
zh
af
 in
de
x 
an
d 
D
eg
re
e
Banzhaf index
Degree of the Hub
42 S. Thakur et al.
5 10 15
0.
2
0.
4
0.
6
0.
8
Networks
5 10 15
4.
0
4.
5
5.
0
5.
5
6.
0
Networks
Fig. 7 Relation between the Banzhaf index and diameter of the network. The uniformity of Banzhaf
increases as the diameter of the network decreases
to explore the relationship between the Banzhaf index and the network diameter.
We use Algorithm1 to compute Banzhaf indices of all nodes in each such hub net-
work. We observe (shown in Fig. 7) that as we increase the maximum degree of
the subgraph generated from the hubs, the diameter of the graph becomes low. As
the diameter becomes low it indicates graph converges towards a complete graph.
Hence it becomes difficult to generate cuts in such a graph. We keep k (diameter
of the collusion graph) as 2 for all datasets. We want to analyze the possibility of
collusion within a hub’s immediate neighborhood, hence we use diameter 2 because
the average diameter of these graphs is 4.5. The computed Banzhaf indices show that
power indices become more uniform as the graph evolves towards a complete graph.
It means it difficult to execute collusion attacks in channel network if the diameter
of the graph becomes small.
Next, we analyze the vulnerability of Bitcoin Lightning network against collusion
attack. We use the following metric to measure such vulnerability per node as:
vulnerability w.r.t node vi = # of neighbours with Banzhaf Index less than vi
Size of neighbourhood of vi
.
(6)
We found that there are 62 nodes (shown in Fig. 8) with vulnerability metric at
least .9. This means there are 62 nodes who can execute collusion attacks against
90% of their neighbors in the Lightning network.
Collusion Attack from Hubs in The Blockchain Offline Channel … 43
0 500 1000 2000
0.
0
0.
2
0.
4
0.
6
0.
8
1.
0
Nodes
0 500 1000 2000
0
20
0
40
0
60
0
80
0
Nodes
Fig. 8 Vulnerability metric for Lightning network. The left hand figure shows the vulnerability
metric for each node in Lightning network and the right hand figure shows the number of neighbours
with less Banzhaf index for each node in the Lightning network
7 Conclusion
In this paper, we analyzed collision attacks among the hubs of offline channel net-
works. We have defined the potential for collusion attacks using Banzhaf indices.
We have shown the correlation between uniformity of degree of the hub network and
Banzhaf indices. Using experiments on Bitcoin’s Lightning network we have shown
that as the hub network evolves towards a complete graph it becomes more difficult
to create cuts in the graph with a fixed number of edges and hence it increases the
uniformity of power indices.
Acknowledgements This publication has emanated from research supported in part by a research
grant from Science Foundation Ireland (SFI) and the Department of Agriculture, Food and the
Marine on behalf of the Government of Ireland under Grant Number SFI 16/RC/3835 (VistaMilk),
co-funded by the European Regional Development Fund.
References
1. Poon, J., Dryja, T.: The bitcoin lightning network: scalable off-chain instant payments. https://
lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf
2. Malavolta, G., Moreno-Sanchez, P., Kate, A., Maffei, M.: Silentwhispers: enforcing security
and privacy in decentralized credit networks. IACR Cryptol. ePrint Arch. 2016, 1054 (2016)
3. Raiden Network. http://raiden.network/. Accessed 1 Mar 2019
https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf
https://lightning.network/lightning-network-paper.pdf
http://raiden.network/
44 S. Thakur et al.
4. Aziz, H., Lachish, O., Paterson, M., Savani, R.: Power indices in spanning connectivity games.
In: Goldberg, A.V., Zhou, Y. (eds.) Algorithmic Aspects in Information and Management, pp.
55–67. Springer, Berlin Heidelberg (2009)
5. Bachrach, Y., Rosenschein, J.S.: Computing the Banzhaf power index in network flow games.
In: AAMAS (2007)
6. Moreno-Sanchez, P., Kate, A., Maffei, M., Pecina, K.: Privacy preserving payments in credit
networks: enabling trust with privacy in online marketplaces. In: NDSS (2015)
7. Green, M., Miers, I.: Bolt: anonymous payment channels for decentralized currencies. In: Pro-
ceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
CCS ’17, pp. 473–489. ACM, New York, NY, USA (2017). https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.
3134093
8. Grunspan, C., Pérez-Marco, R.: Ant routing algorithm for the lightning network. CoRR (2018).
ArXiv:1807.00151
9. Heilman, E., Kendler, A., Zohar, A., Goldberg, S.: Eclipse attacks on bitcoin’s peer-to-peer
network. In: Proceedings of the 24th USENIX Conference on Security Symposium, SEC’15,
USENIX Association, pp. 129–144. Berkeley, CA, USA (2015). http://dl.acm.org/citation.
cfm?id=2831143.2831152
10. Castro,M., Druschel, P., Ganesh, A., Rowstron, A.,Wallach, D.S.: Secure routing for structured
peer-to-peer overlay networks. SIGOPS Oper. Syst. Rev. 36(SI), 299–314 (2002). https://doi.
org/10.1145/844128.844156
11. Singh, A., Ngan, T.W., Druschel, P.,Wallach, D.S.: Eclipse attacks on overlay networks: threats
and defenses. In: 25th IEEE International Conference on Computer Communications on Pro-
ceedings IEEE INFOCOM 2006. pp. 1–12 (2006)
12. Nayak, K., Kumar, S., Miller, A., Shi, E.: Stubborn mining: Generalizing selfish mining and
combiningwith an eclipse attack. In: 2016 IEEEEuropean Symposium on Security and Privacy
(EuroS P), pp. 305–320 (2016). https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP.2016.32
13. Bitcoin Lightning Network Graph. https://graph.lndexplorer.com/api/graph. Accessed 1 Mar
2019
14. Werman, S., Zohar, A.: Avoiding deadlocks in payment channel networks. In: Garcia-Alfaro,
J., Herrera-Joancomartí, J., Livraga, G., Rios, R. (eds.) Data Privacy Management, Cryptocur-
rencies and Blockchain Technology, pp. 175–187. Springer International Publishing, Cham
(2018)
15. Czyzowicz, J., Kowalski, D., Markou, E., Pelc, A.: Searching for a black hole in tree networks.
In: Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on Principles of Distributed Systems, pp.
67–80. OPODIS’04. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (2005)
16. Czyzowicz, J., Kowalski, D.R., Markou, E., Pelc, A.: Complexity of searching for a black hole.
Fundam. Inform. 71(2–3), 229–242 (2006). http://content.iospress.com/articles/fundamenta-
informaticae/fi71-2-3-05
17. Dobrev, S., Flocchini, P., Prencipe, G., Santoro, N.: Mobile search for a black hole in an
anonymous ring. Algorithmica 48(1), 67–90 (2007)
https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3134093
https://doi.org/10.1145/3133956.3134093
http://arxiv.org/abs/1807.00151
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2831143.2831152
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=2831143.2831152
https://doi.org/10.1145/844128.844156
https://doi.org/10.1145/844128.844156
https://doi.org/10.1109/EuroSP.2016.32
https://graph.lndexplorer.com/api/graph
http://content.iospress.com/articles/fundamenta-informaticae/fi71-2-3-05
http://content.iospress.com/articles/fundamenta-informaticae/fi71-2-3-05
	 Collusion Attack from Hubs  in The Blockchain Offline Channel Network
	1 Introduction
	2 Related Literature
	3 Collusion Attacks
	3.1 Hubs in Bitcoin Lightning Network
	3.2 Models of Collusion Attack
	4 Potential of Collusion Attacks
	5 Method to Reduce Possibility of Collusion Attacks
	6 Evaluation with Bitcoin Lightning Network
	7 Conclusion
	References