The Business Prospect in Metaverse and NFT Era (User, Accountant, and Gaming Community Perspectives)
 
The Business Prospect in Metaverse and NFT Era 
(User, Accountant, and Gaming Community 
Perspectives) 
Kenny Thenjono 
Student, Accounting Program,  
School of Accounting 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
kenny.thenjono@binus.ac.id 
Felix Ratana 
Student, Accounting Program,  
School of Accounting 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
felix.ratana@binus.ac.id 
Setiani Putri Hendratno 
Faculty Member, Accounting Program,  
School of Accounting 
Bina Nusantara University 
Jakarta, Indonesia 
shendratno@binus.edu 
Abstract— Non-Fungible Token (NFT) has been growing 
extraordinarily in recent years. The concept of NFT is 
essentially a digital asset that operates based on smart 
contracts on a blockchain that were traded with 
cryptocurrencies such as Ethereum, Tezos, Solana, etc. Public 
attention toward NFTs has exploded in 2021. Despite its 
popularity and skyrocketing trading prices, little is known 
about the economics, people’s perceptions, and experiences 
with NFTs. Therefore, This study aims to provide diverse 
understandings of  NFT, the benefits & drawbacks of NFT, 
and the potential of NFT and metaverse according to them.  In 
this paper, researchers perform a qualitative study which 
consists of 18 respondents, including users, accountants, and 
gaming community. This research uses a semi-structured 
interview and descriptive analysis method. The conclusion 
drawn from this study is that this research recommends 
readers for utilizing NFT and we expect readers to find this 
research useful. 
Keywords— Non-Fungible Token, Blockchain, Metaverse, 
Innovation, Business Prospect. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
1. 1 Research Background 
Blockchain growth is currently growing rapidly 
compared to 2008 where it was first introduced by Satoshi 
Nakamoto through a cryptocurrency called Bitcoin (Hassani 
et al., 2018). In 2014, second generation of blockchain such 
as Ethereum and Cryptocurrency was introduced, it has new 
software called smart contract, which allow any user to 
create and deploy program on a shared global infrastructure, 
that later on create a new concepts design to simplify human 
interaction and collaboration on a large scale (Regner and 
Schweizer 2019). One example of this development is the 
Non-Fungible Token (NFT). Wang et al. (2021) stated that 
NFT is a type of cryptocurrency that is derived by the smart 
contracts of Ethereum. Wang et al. (2021) clarify that NFT 
was first proposed in the Ethereum Improvement Proposal 
(EIP)-721 and further developed in EIP-1155. According to 
Kong and Lin (2021) the interest in NFT has been 
extraordinary, especially after the sale of Beeple’s artwork 
“Everydays: the First 5000 Days” for 69 million on March 
12, 2021. It was reported that the liquidity of NFT-related 
solutions has accounted for 1.3% of the entire 
cryptocurrency market in five month periods (Wang et al., 
2021).  
According to Schaar and Kampakis (2021), the highest 
average prices of NFT can be observed in the metaverse. 
Damar (2021) stated that the metaverse refers to a shared 
3D virtual world in which all activities can take place using 
augmented and virtual reality equipment. Metaverse has 
become a buzzword since Mark Zuckerberg announced that 
the parent company (Facebook) changed its name into Meta 
and the company’s goals going forward (The Verge 2021). 
Other than that, according to The Wall Street Journal 
(2022), PwC in Hong Kong purchased virtual real estate in 
the Sandbox metaverse that resulted in investors’ optimism 
and cautiousness. In contrast, Wang et al. (2021) also 
mentioned that NFT and metaverse still have a long way to 
go since they’re still in early development. It has been 
reported by Bloomberg (2022) that Frosties NFT creators 
(Ethan Nguyen and Andrew Llacuna) were charged for 
defrauding investors of more than $1 million by creating a 
series of NFTs and abandoning the project after selling out 
of the tokens. Also, according to Kotaku (2022), hackers 
stole $1.7 million worth of NFTs from OpenSea users by 
using phishing techniques.  
Based on these factors, researchers had interest in 
identifying why users, gaming community and accountants 
think on NFT, also identifying some opportunities and 
challenges of NFT and metaverse according to them, and 
what they think about NFTs and metaverse in the future. 
Researchers provide a detailed analysis of their perspectives 
and the business prospects of NFT and metaverse.   
1. 2 Problem Identification 
The problem identifications are as follows: 
• What do NFT users, gaming community, and 
accountants think about NFTs or metaverse?  
• What are the opportunities and challenges users, 
gaming community, and accountants encounter on 
NFT and metaverse? 
• What are the potentials in NFT and metaverse in 
the future according to users, gaming community, 
and accountants 
1. 3 Research Purpose 
The purpose of this research comes from the 
overwhelming interest of NFT and metaverse in recent 
years. It aims to describe and analyze the positive and 
negative aspects of NFT and metaverse according to the 
user, accountants, and gaming community perspectives. In 
addition, researchers are also curious about the potential 
that would happen in five year ahead in NFT and metaverse 
according to them. 
20
22
 4
th
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l C
on
fe
re
nc
e 
on
 C
yb
er
ne
tic
s a
nd
 In
te
lli
ge
nt
 S
ys
te
m
 (I
CO
RI
S)
 |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
53
95
-0
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
IC
O
RI
S5
60
80
.2
02
2.
10
03
13
92
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
2. 1 Definition of NFT and Metaverse 
2. 1. 1 NFT 
According to Nadini et al. (2021), NFT is a unit of data 
stored on a blockchain that certifies a digital asset to be 
unique and therefore not interchangeable. The data 
consisted of images, audio files, art, gaming and sports 
collectibles, etc. and were traded with cryptocurrency such 
as USDT and ETH (Sharma et al., 2022). Wang et al. (2021) 
added that NFTs can be easily proven their existence and 
ownership of the digital asset were from the smart contract 
that comes from a blockchain. They added that the creator 
of NFT can also earn royalties each time a successful trade 
on any NFT market or by peer-to-peer exchanging. The 
NFT system is the same as blockchain-based applications. 
Whenever NFT is minted or sold, a new transaction is 
required to invoke the smart contract. After the transaction 
is confirmed, the NFT data and ownership details were 
added to a new block, ensuring that the history of the NFT 
remains unchanged and the ownership is preserved (Wang 
et al., 2022). According to Schaar et al. (2022), the NFT 
market is driven by many reasons such as heterogeneous 
asset, high market transparency, verifiable, availability of 
the market is 24/7, low liquidity, relatively high transaction 
cost, higher elasticity of supply than the physical art market, 
psychological factors of owning NFT are different from 
owning traditional assets and price evaluation is not 
objective. 
2. 1. 2 Metaverse 
According to Lee et al., (2021), metaverse comes from 
the word “meta” (transcending/beyond) and “universe” 
which implies a computer-generated world blending 
physical and digital which users interact through digital 
avatars by internet. They also added that in the metaverse, 
all individual users own their respective avatars as a 
representation to experience an alternate life in virtuality. 
Other than that, users can do plenty of activities in the 
metaverse such as playing games, displaying arts, trading 
assets and virtual properties (virtual land, virtual clothes, 
etc). According to Damar (2021), the South Korean 
government and large enterprises including Samsung, 
Hyundai Motors, SK Telecom, and KT are interested in 
building metaverse. 
2. 2 Innovation 
According to Rogers (2003), An innovation is an idea, 
practice or object that is perceived as new by an individual 
or other unit of adoption. He emphasized that the 
“Newness” of an innovation may be expressed in terms of 
knowledge, persuasion or a decision to adopt. There were 
five attributes that characterize an innovation such as 
relative advantage, compatibility, complexity, trialability 
and observability (Rogers., 2003). In this paper, the usage 
of innovation theory can be applied to this research, 
specifically how NFT and metaverse can be affected by 
users, gaming community, and accountants. 
2. 3 Prospect Theory 
Business prospect or prospect theory says that people 
tend to value gains more than losses to averse risks in 
decision making according to Kahneman and Tversky 
(1992). In addition, people underweight outcomes that are 
merely probable in comparison with outcomes that are 
obtained with certainty. There are two phases in prospect 
theory which are framing and valuation. In the framing 
phase, the decision maker identifies the outcomes of the 
decision. On the other hand, in the valuation phase, the 
decision maker assesses the value of each 
prospect/possibility. In this paper, the theory of business 
prospects is used to explain the NFT and metaverse 
opportunities and challenges in the future considering 
they’re still in development. 
2. 4 Research Question 
The research question comes from the growth of digital 
technology in this current era, NFT and metaverse has 
become one of many influences that made a huge impact in 
society. Schaar & Kampakis (2022) mentioned that the 
growth in the NFT market can be seen as a new opportunity 
by many investors, but the economics of NFTs are not well 
yet understood, due to the novelty of the field. According 
to Francisco et al. (2022), NFT games are very popular 
among Filipinos due to investment promises and economic 
difficulties in the Philippines. However, based on the Game 
Developers Conference Survey (2022), the majority of the 
developers said that they were not interested at all in NFTs 
because the implementation is still limited, potential for 
frauds, and environmental issues. Yatsyk (2018) mentioned 
that the current accounting and reporting framework does 
not dwell with cryptocurrencies, lack of standardized 
taxonomy and due to diversity and place of innovation that 
is associated with making it difficult to prepare general 
accounting treatment, which may had an impact on NFT 
and metaverse. Based on several studies above, researchers 
were able to carry out several research questions regarding 
NFT and metaverse based on user, gaming community and 
accountant’s perspectives. 
III. RESEARCH METHODOLOGY 
The research approach used in this research is 
qualitative method using experience question descriptive 
approach that focused on analyzing the influence of NFT 
and metaverse according to Users, Gaming Community 
and Accountant (Sugiyono, 2013). The researcher used 
primary data directly from an online interview that has been 
done with the respondent through online media (Zoom and 
Discord) and secondary data from reliable sources such as 
journals, books, and websites that would support the 
research question. The researcher used a semi-structured 
interview where the interviews were conducted to discuss 
the specified topics and respondents were able to answer 
based on their experience (Sugiyono, 2013). To handle 
bias, researchers use a moderator when the interview 
occurs and do not interrupt the respondents while they’re 
answering. The data will be analyzed by using descriptive 
analysis (Bush, 2020), where the researcher will summarize 
the data on the recordings to find patterns, filter out less 
meaningful data, and determine whether the results of the 
interview are in accordance with the research objectives, 
namely what users, gaming community and accountant 
think of NFT and Metaverse, the opportunities and 
challenges in NFT and Metaverse that they encounter, and 
their opinion about NFT and Metaverse in the future. For 
users, researchers’ criteria are people who understand NFT 
& metaverse and own/create NFT. Then, researchers’ 
criteria for the gaming community are people who play 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
video games regularly whether they play NFT games or 
not. Last but not least, researchers’ criteria for an 
accountant are people who have worked professionally as 
an accountant and understand NFT & metaverse 
IV. RESULT AND DISCUSSION 
In this study, the researcher will elaborate on the data 
gathered from the respondent of the interview that had been 
examined, the data was gathered through directly recorded 
with the respondents with online media (Zoom and 
Discord), the research question was spread to different 
respondents based on 3 perspectives. The research question 
gained 18 respondents which consist of 15 male respondents 
and 3 female respondents, within the age range around 20-
30 and some of them more than 30 years old. The majority 
of respondents domiciled from Jakarta and others came 
from other domiciles. Most of the respondents already have 
working experience and 8 respondents are college students. 
4. 1 Users’ Perspective 
According to our respondents, NFT is a digital asset 
which can be linked to digital (GIF, JPEG, video, etc) and 
physical objects (physical painting, land, consumer goods, 
etc) as a proof of ownership.  
“NFT is a proof of ownership of digital or physical 
assets which can be sold and collected. Back then it was 
difficult to detect Leonardo Da Vinci’s fake paintings, but 
now we have the solution for that with NFT to prove its 
originality. Besides, you’ll get rewards as a NFT holder to 
be a part of the community.” - Respondent 5 
NFTs are saved by using a digital wallet. NFTs can be 
bought through online marketplaces such as OpenSea, 
Rarible, SuperRare, Mintable, etc. All of them had at least 
1 NFT from a marketplace called OpenSea and considered 
themselves as a collector although we also found two 
creators of NFT that were currently working on a project. 
“I’m a creator and currently working on a project. I 
think NFT is the future in the art world. As a creator you’ll 
get royalties each time your creation gets sold.” - 
Respondent 3 
Art appreciation, curiosity, and investment are the most 
common reasons why they were interested in NFT. Other 
than that, all of them believed in the future of NFT as an 
inevitable technological development despite their 
concerns including art theft, rug pull scam, money 
laundering, hacking, etc.  
“I think NFT is the future, it’s inevitable. We are still in 
a very early phase to invest in NFT. I don’t deny the 
existence of money laundering, art theft, and hacking but 
they also happen everywhere. You can solve the art theft 
problem by reporting the stolen NFTs in the marketplace. I 
think a lot of artists don’t have a good personal branding to 
create a community around them so the artists can ask the 
community to mass report the NFT if their work is stolen. 
I think people are exaggerating the negative aspects of 
NFT. There are risks in everything and that’s normal.” - 
Respondent 7 
According to Respondent 7, NFT prices are very 
subjective but buyers or investors can value the project by 
finding out who are the people behind the project & 
whether the execution is in accordance with the roadmap 
that has been promised. 
 
All of our respondents are interested in diving into the 
metaverse in the future but they thought it was still very 
early in development and they were eager to wait years 
later. 
“I haven’t tried any metaverse but I’m very interested. 
In the future, the metaverse will be like the Oasis in Ready 
Player One movie. I think it will drastically change human 
behavior and it will have its own micro economy and 
governance.” - Respondent 2 
4. 2 Gaming Community’s Perspective 
According to our interview with the respondents, they 
mostly spent their time playing games in general between 
2-4 hours a day, the majority said that they were interested 
in NFT games but still uncertain because they were unsure 
about the system in the game and they had bad press that 
caused them to be more cautious. However, some of 
respondents had already played a NFT game called Axie 
Infinity. 
“I was interested in playing NFT games but I still don't 
really understand the system of the game, so I haven’t 
played it now.” - Respondent 11 
“I was interested in playing these NFT games, but 
because they got negative press lately such as rug pulls 
which makes me a little cautious about playing these types 
of games.” - Respondent 12 
Based on the interview, the majority knew about these 
NFT games through friends, family members, and social 
media. Most of the respondents said that these types of 
games were played for profit or investment. Based on our 
interview, some of the respondents thought that NFT games 
were more oriented towards a pay-to-play business model 
than a pay-to-win business model. However, one of the 
respondents said that some NFT games have both business 
models combined. 
“In my case, these games have both features combined 
and the reason is because most of these NFT games require 
some assets to play and you need to buy these assets first 
and the income is more likely to be different based on how 
much the player spends.” - Respondent 13 
According to the respondent, researcher found a new 
finding where there was some opportunities and challenges 
that these NFT games had, the opportunities that researcher 
found is that if people can’t afford to play & want to try this 
NFT game, there is community that can provide you their 
ID to play their game, resulting that you can get a profit 
split with the ID owner based on the agreement to 
overcome the barrier entry problem. 
“There is one interesting experience when I learned 
about NFT which comes from a game called Axie Infinity 
where I did some scholarly work. I play other people's ID 
to get the income from the game that I earn and it will be 
shared with the people that shared their ID to me” - 
Respondent 10 
The challenge that the majority of respondents said 
about these NFT games came from the lack of interest, 
while the other said that the pay-to-play business model 
pushed them back. Furthermore, one of the respondents 
said that the declining market which happened in Axie 
Infinity caused people to lose interest in these games, and 
lastly because there are many bad impressions that happen 
in these types of games, such as rug pull scam. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
“In my opinion, the pay-to-play business model is a 
barrier, it means that only certain people who can afford it 
can play these types of games and maybe the bad 
impressions that happened in these games make 
newcomers don't want to play this type of games.” - 
Respondent 12 
“For the challenge, in Axie Infinity there is a currency 
that they used its called SLP which player can farm these 
so called SLP, because player only focused in farming and 
not doing the “burn” system, it can causing diminishing 
market capability”- Respondent 6 
Aside from NFT, the respondents were also interested 
in diving into metaverse. However due its early stage, some 
of the respondents were still cautious whether or not they 
want to dive into these metaverse. 
“For now, I'm not interested, because I’m technology 
illiterate and the concept of metaverse is still unknown, 
even though if the game comes out and becoming a trend, 
I still have many considerations for buying these 
technology” - Respondent 13, 
In the end, according to most of the gaming community 
perspective, NFT and metaverse are still in a negative state, 
because most of them believe if the game developer does 
not improve their game, players will lose their reason to 
play these types of games and the game would die. 
However, one of the respondents argues that in the future 
these types of NFTs and metaverse games will be accepted 
in society. 
4. 3 Accountants’ Perspective 
According to our respondents, NFT is an intangible 
digital asset as a proof of ownership related to art such as 
paintings, music, and videos that implements smart 
contract mechanism on a blockchain between the buyer and 
the seller, and the transaction history is visible to the public 
because it’s written on a block chain. 
“Literally NFT is Non-Fungible Token which means we 
can digitize anything into NFTs, whether it’s in a form of 
art or tweet like the first tweet of the founder of Twitter 
(Jack Dorsey) that was sold as a NFT. NFT can be sold and 
the public can know who is the creator & the last NFT 
holder.” - Respondent 16 
All of our respondents mentioned that they didn’t have 
professional experiences in the NFT world. Most of our 
respondents said that they rarely talked about it with their 
peers in the company. On the other hand, one respondent 
reported that he was working on an NFT project in his 
company. His company was a subsidiary company that 
specialized in NFT. They learned about NFT themselves 
through the internet by using Google and social media. 
Some respondents had been through some seminars in 
terms of learning these NFTs, but one of the respondents 
was not interested in learning NFT. Two of our respondents 
were interested in NFT and had NFT, our two respondents 
weren’t interested in NFT and didn’t have NFT, and our 
last respondent was interested but didn’t have NFT yet. 
“In my case, I learned about NFT after participating in 
crypto seminars back in 2017, after the seminar, I was self-
taught in NFT through Google because I was interested in 
NFT and already holding many projects of NFTs.” -
Respondent 10 
“I’m interested in buying NFT only when I get a 
whitelist. Whitelist is similar to IPO (Initial Public 
Offering) in selling stocks where you get a retail price 
before going into the secondary market (stock exchange). 
NFT is way cheaper when you get a whitelist.” - 
Respondent 16 
“I’m not interested in buying NFT because I don’t have 
enough knowledge about it, the concept is too abstract for 
me, and my risk appetite in investing is low considering 
how high risk NFT is.” - Respondent 15 
According to the majority of our respondents, the way 
to value digital assets such as NFT is by using the whitelist 
NFT price as a fair value and then adjusting the NFT value 
based on the secondary market price. 
“The fair value of NFT can be known when it was 
minted or published or sold for the first time, it’s known as 
whitelist. After that, we can adjust to the current value by 
using the secondary market price.” - Respondent 15 
Researchers asked the respondents what if a client 
needed advice regarding NFT in accounting but you don’t 
have knowledge about it. Majority of them mentioned that 
there’s a phase called “gaining understanding” so as an 
accountant doesn’t give false information to the client, and 
one of the respondents mentioned that their company 
should take initiative in these matters. 
“As an accountant, there’s a phase called gaining 
understanding. It means we learn the fundamentals of NFT. 
Usually, the company will provide us with internal training 
because it’s important to give reliable information to the 
client. If we think that the knowledge provided by the 
company isn’t enough, we have to find it ourselves.” - 
Respondent 15 
When it comes to opportunities and challenges in NFTs, 
respondents have concerns regarding NFT such as money 
laundering, cybercrime (hacking), and the speculative 
nature of it even though they’re still optimistic with the 
future NFT. They thought it was inevitable. One respondent 
mentioned that intangible assets will be bigger than 
physical assets because the entertainment industry will 
continue to evolve. In addition, NFT would open new 
opportunities for accountants, auditors, and tax consultants 
and regarding its regulation, they believed that there would 
be specific regulations about NFT based on the countries 
concerning how they treat NFT.  
“In NFTs, there is a potential for money laundering. 
However, in my opinion I'm more welcoming to NFT 
because it can create new job opportunities for auditors, 
accounting or even tax consultants.” - Respondent 14 
In the end, according to the respondents, NFT and 
metaverse will continue to grow and many companies in 
Indonesia will even though the literature in NFT and 
metaverse are still lacking they believed these new 
technologies will continue to grow to the point where 
public will adapt to this technology and its regulations, their 
perspectives are in line with the Innovation theory because 
of the “Newness” of an innovation may be expressed in 
terms of knowledge, persuasion or a decision to adopt. In 
addition, their perspectives are in line with the Prospect 
theory because they value the positive aspects higher than 
the negative aspects of NFT and metaverse. They also 
added that as humans, we must continue to learn and be 
prepared for the changes. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Based on the result of our research, researchers can see 
that NFT and metaverse will have a huge impact in the 
future. The interest of NFT and metaverse has increased 
since the phenomena of Ghozali which happened in 
Indonesia. Other than that, there were also several factors 
that caused someone to buy or make NFT’s such as art 
appreciation, curiosity, and investment. Therefore, 
researcher has summarized the finding in this research as 
follows: 
 
Fig. 1.  Interview Result Diagram (Source: Gathered data of Research) 
 
Researchers found out that the reason for users using 
NFT comes from different aspects, it can be also used to 
build connection within the community other than art 
appreciation reason from collector’s aspect. From trader 
aspect, they have an opportunity to make profits by selling 
these NFTs, and last but not least, from creators’ aspect 
these NFT can open opportunities for them to get profits 
and royalties every time a trade happens. However, there 
were some challenges when the users encountered these 
NFT. In their case, they saw people were doing rug pull 
scam, hacking, and even selling people’s ID cards on NFT 
marketplace. Researcher suggested to do some research 
background on the person behind the project, 
understanding the roadmap of the project and the backup 
company that supported the project to avoid any fraud or 
scams. In addition, the role of accountant is needed to 
validate their assets and to analyze the establishment of an 
artwork to prevent frauds. 
When it comes to the gaming community, researchers 
found out that NFT and metaverse games were still viewed 
negatively because they are still new and their mechanics 
has no difference compared to conventional games in 
general. The only difference is that the NFT games have 
blockchain technology that supports them. Besides, Other 
than that, it's been influenced by bad publicity which made 
many people avoid playing this type of game such as 
hacking. Furthermore, the lack of awareness from NFT 
game developers in updating their game which makes their 
game just a momentary boom. Not to mention, players need 
to pay to be able to play these types of the game already has 
become a drawback. Researchers suggests that game 
developers pay attention in making interesting mechanics, 
updates, and seasonal events in their games to entice 
players and keep the community alive. In addition, gaming 
developers can make some platform that can connect with 
players so they can take suggestions and opinions from 
players, and the role of accountant is needed to assess and 
act as consultant on intangible asset ownership. 
Researchers found that accountants saw NFT & 
metaverse positively as new technologies that would be 
massively adopted in the future. The opportunities of NFT 
& metaverse from their point of view are accountant would 
have a speciality in valuating NFT, accounting company 
service would have a new service regarding NFT & 
metaverse, tax consultants have a new speciality in taxation 
of NFT & metaverse. On the other hand, they have 
challenges of NFT & metaverse in mind such as rug pull 
scam and money laundering. It’s important for accountants 
to equip themselves with knowledge of NFT & metaverse 
to face them as they’re more common in the future. 
Researchers suggest accounting company service to have 
internal trainings for accountants to gain understandings 
about NFT & metaverse.  
In the future, NFT & metaverse are unavoidable. Users 
of NFT can display their works and collection in the 
metaverse. People can also invest in digital arts and  
Metaverse will be a place where everyone can hang out in 
the digital world without physical interaction and even it 
has a possibility to replicate real world. It will have its own 
economy in metaverse because companies will invest in 
NFT & metaverse. Other than hanging out, people can also 
play games in metaverse, NFT also can be involved with 
the games so gaming community has a new way to play 
their games other than the conventional games. 
Accountants can appraise NFT and verify the transaction to 
prevent fraud.    
 
V. CONCLUSION 
NFT & metaverse are innovations coming from 
blockchain that was recently becoming very popular in the 
world during the pandemic & created new opportunities in 
a wide variety of areas. This research is done to identify 
NFT and metaverse from different perspectives regarding 
its pros and cons and its potential. Based on this research, 
researchers found that NFT and metaverse are still early in 
development & there are a lot of opinions coming from 
different perspectives. Some respondents mentioned that 
NFT and metaverse are inevitable & can create new 
opportunities to users, gaming community, and accountants 
such as digital artists, developers, technical consultants, 
etc. On the other hand, NFT is still not well regulated and 
has considerable risks such as money laundering, rug pull 
scam, wallet stealing/hacking, etc. that make our 
respondents cautious about it. In addition, one of our 
respondents stated that NFT was very speculative and he 
would rather invest in more secure financial instruments 
such as stocks, obligations, and mutual funds. 
Researchers had limitations. Firstly, our sample size is 
relatively small (18 respondents) because the time that the 
researcher had was limited and it was difficult to find 
respondents who understood the fundamental knowledge 
of NFT & metaverse and respondents who were willing to 
speak up about their opinion in these new findings. 
Secondly, this research only focuses on three perspectives 
(users, gaming community, and accountants) who 
understand NFT. The NFT ecosystem has other 
stakeholders (e.g., investors) who might have different 
opinions (Sharma et al., 2022). Furthermore, findings 
found by researchers were only based on the interview, 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
which possibly can be biased. But researchers reduce the 
risk of bias by using the question that had been in the 
previous research, creating predetermined questions, 
determining the scope before conducting the interview. In 
the future, researchers hope that the next research can be 
complemented by observational studies. Last but not least, 
the majority of our respondents (15 out of 18) are male. It’s 
hoped that the next research will have more female 
respondents to expand the perspective. Despite its 
limitations, it’s hoped that the next research will have 
broader perspectives. 
REFERENCES 
 
[1]. Ante, L. (2021). The non-fungible token (NFT) market and its 
relationship with Bitcoin and Ethereum. Available at SSRN 
3861106. 
[2]. Damar, M. (2021). Metaverse Shape of Your Life for Future: A 
bibliometric snapshot. Journal of Metaverse, 1(1), 1-8. 
[3]. Dolmetsch Chris (2022, Mar 25) Frosties NFT Creators Charged 
With ‘Rug Pull’ Investor Fraud: 
https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-03-24/nft-
creators-charged-with-defrauding-investors-in-rug-pull, Accessed 
On 12 Apr 2022. 
[4]. Dowling, M. (2022). Fertile LAND: Pricing non-fungible 
tokens. Finance Research Letters, 44, 102096. 
[5]. Fairfield, J. (2021). Tokenized: The law of non-fungible tokens and 
unique digital property. Indiana Law Journal, Forthcoming. 
[6]. Francisco, R., Rodelas, N., & Ubaldo, J. E. (2022). The Perception 
of Filipinos on the Advent of Cryptocurrency and Non-Fungible 
Token (NFT) Games. arXiv preprint arXiv:2202.07467. 
[7]. GDC., (2022). State of the Game Industry 2022: 
https://images.reg.techweb.com/Web/UBMTechweb/%7B0e1305
37-da8b-43da-971d-
ccd0104cdb02%7D_GDC22_Report_SOTI.pdf Accessed on 7 
Mar 2022. 
[8]. H a s s a ni, H. a n d H u a n g, X. a n d Silva, E.S. (201 8) Banking 
with blockch ain-e d big d a t a. Jour n al of M a n a g e m e n t 
Analytics, 5 (4). p p. 2 5 6-2 7 5. ISS N 2 3 2 7-0 0 1 2 
[9]. Kong, D. R., & Lin, T. C. (2021). Alternative investments in the 
Fintech era: The risk and return of Non-Fungible Token 
(NFT). Available at SSRN 3914085. 
[10]. Lee, L. H., Braud, T., Zhou, P., Wang, L., Xu, D., Lin, Z., ... & Hui, 
P. (2021). All one needs to know about metaverse: A complete 
survey on technological singularity, virtual ecosystem, and research 
agenda. arXiv preprint arXiv:2110.05352. 
[11]. Maurer Mark (2022, Jan 7) Accounting Firms Scoop Up Virtual 
Land in the Metaverse: https://www.wsj.com/articles/accounting-
firms-scoop-up-virtual-land-in-the-metaverse-11641599590 
Accessed on 12 Apr 2022. 
[12]. Mazur, M. (2021). Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT). The Analysis of 
Risk and Return. Available at SSRN 3953535. 
[13]. Nadini, M., Alessandretti, L., Di Giacinto, F., Martino, M., Aiello, 
L. M., & Baronchelli, A. (2021). Mapping the NFT revolution: 
market trends, trade networks, and visual features. Scientific 
reports, 11(1), 1-11. 
[14]. Newton Casey (2021, Jul 22) MARK IN THE METAVERSE 
:Facebook’s CEO on why the social network is becoming ‘a 
metaverse company’: https://www.theverge.com/22588022/mark-
zuckerberg-facebook-ceo-metaverse-interview accessed on 12 Apr 
2022. 
[15]. Plunkett Luke (2022, Feb 20) ‘Hacker’ Steals NFTs ‘Worth’ 
Millions From Opensea Users : https://kotaku.com/hacker-steals-
nfts-worth-millions-from-opensea-marketpl-1848570074, 
Accessed on 12 Apr 2022. 
[16]. Regner, F., Urbach, N., & Schweizer, A. (2019). NFTs in practice–
non-fungible tokens as core component of a blockchain-based 
event ticketing application. 
[17]. Rogers E.M.,(2003). Diffusion of Innovations : Fifth Edition.Free 
Press. 
[18]. Schaar, L., & Kampakis, S. (2022). Non-Fungible Tokens as an 
Alternative Investment: Evidence from CryptoPunks. The Journal 
of The British Blockchain Association, 31949. 
[19]. Sharma, T., Zhou, Z., Huang, Y., & Wang, Y. (2022). " It's A 
Blessing and A Curse": Unpacking Creators' Practices with Non-
Fungible Tokens (NFTs) and Their Communities. arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2201.13233. 
[20]. Sugiyono (2013). Metode penelitian kuantitatif, kualitatif, dan 
R&D. ALFABETA,CV. 
[21]. Tversky, A., Kahneman, D. Advances in prospect theory: 
Cumulative representation of uncertainty. J Risk 
Uncertainty 5, 297–323 (1992). 
https://doi.org/10.1007/BF00122574 
[22]. Uribe, D., & Waters, G. (2020). Privacy laws, genomic data and 
non-fungible tokens. The Journal of The British Blockchain 
Association, 13164. 
[23]. Wang, Q., Li, R., Wang, Q., & Chen, S. (2021). Non-fungible token 
(NFT): Overview, evaluation, opportunities and challenges. arXiv 
preprint arXiv:2105.07447. 
[24]. Yatsyk, T. (2018). Methodology of financial accounting of 
cryptocurrencies according to the IFRS. European Journal of 
Economics and Management, 4(6), 53-60. 
[25]. Bush,T. (2020, Jun 22) Descriptive Analysis: How-To, Types, 
Examples https://pestleanalysis.com/descriptive-analysis/, 
Accessed On 2 Sept 2022 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:47:42 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.