Peer-to-Peer Trading in Electricity Networks: An Overview
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020 3185
Peer-to-Peer Trading in Electricity
Networks: An Overview
Wayes Tushar , Senior Member, IEEE, Tapan Kumar Saha , Fellow, IEEE,
Chau Yuen , Senior Member, IEEE, David Smith , Member, IEEE, and H. Vincent Poor , Life Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—Peer-to-peer trading is a next-generation energy
management technique that economically benefits proactive con-
sumers (prosumers) transacting their energy as goods and
services. At the same time, peer-to-peer energy trading is also
expected to help the grid by reducing peak demand, lower-
ing reserve requirements, and curtailing network loss. However,
large-scale deployment of peer-to-peer trading in electricity
networks poses a number of challenges in modeling transactions
in both the virtual and physical layers of the network. As such,
this article provides a comprehensive review of the state-of-the-
art in research on peer-to-peer energy trading techniques. By
doing so, we provide an overview of the key features of peer-
to-peer trading and its benefits of relevance to the grid and
prosumers. Then, we systematically classify the existing research
in terms of the challenges that the studies address in the virtual
and the physical layers. We then further identify and discuss
those technical approaches that have been extensively used to
address the challenges in peer-to-peer transactions. Finally, the
paper is concluded with potential future research directions.
Index Terms—Peer-to-peer trading, virtual layer, physi-
cal layer, energy management, game theory, auction theory,
blockchain, storage, energy market, voltage violation, network
loss, energy cost, challenges, future research.
I. INTRODUCTION
OVER the last few years, there has been an dra-
matic growth in small-scale distributed energy resources,
which encompass behind-the-meter generation, energy storage,
inverters, electric vehicles, and controlled loads. At the house-
hold level, in particular, the increase in the use of distributed
Manuscript received September 15, 2019; revised November 24, 2019;
accepted January 17, 2020. Date of publication January 28, 2020; date of cur-
rent version June 19, 2020. This work was supported in part by the Queensland
State Government under the Advance Queensland Research Fellowship under
Grant AQRF11016-17RD2, in part by NSFC under Grant 61750110529, in
part by National Satellite of Excellence in Design Science and Technologies
for Secure Critical Infrastructure (NSoE DeST-SCI) under Grant DeST-
SCI2019-0007, and in part by the U.S. National Science Foundation under
Grant ECCS-1824710. Paper no. TSG-01363-2019. (Corresponding author:
Tapan Kumar Saha.)
Wayes Tushar and Tapan Kumar Saha are with the School of Information
Technology and Electrical Engineering, University of Queensland, Brisbane,
QLD 4072, Australia (e-mail: wayes.tushar.t@ieee.org; saha@itee.uq.edu.au).
Chau Yuen is with the Engineering Product Development Pillar,
Singapore University of Technology and Design, Singapore 487372 (e-mail:
yuenchau@sutd.edu.sg).
David Smith is with Data61, CSIRO, Eveleigh, NSW 2015, Australia
(e-mail: david.smith@data61.csiro.au).
H. Vincent Poor is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Princeton
University, Princeton, NJ 08544 USA (e-mail: poor@princeton.edu).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this article are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TSG.2020.2969657
energy resources has been unprecedented. For instance, the
global market of rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) panels is
expected to grow by 11% per over the next six years, with an
additional increase in residential storage systems from 95 MW
in 2016 to 3700 MW by 2025 [1]. These small-scale resources
can be utilized not only to manage the energy demand more
efficiently, but also to enable a significant mix of clean energy
into the grid. However, to do so, it is important for the owners
of these assets to act as proactive consumers — referred to here
as prosumers — and actively participate in the energy market.
Given this context, feed-in-tariff (FiT) has been used exten-
sively to enable prosumers to participate in energy trading [2].
In FiT, prosumers with rooftop solar panels can sell their
excess solar energy to the grid and can buy energy again from
the grid in case of any energy deficiency [3]. Unfortunately, the
benefit to prosumers for participating in recent FiT schemes
has been very marginal [4]. As a consequence, FiT schemes
have been discontinued in some parts of the world such as the
state of Queensland in Australia [5].
As such, peer-to-peer (P2P) trading has emerged as a next
generation energy management technique for smart grid that
can enable prosumers to actively participate in the energy mar-
ket either by selling their excess energy [6] or by reducing
the demand of energy via Negawatts, i.e., demand reduction
or negative Watts [7]. With the prosumers in control of set-
ting the terms of transactions and the delivering of goods and
services [8], it is expected that the gain that the prosumers
can reap from participating in P2P trading would be substan-
tial [9]. At the same time, the grid — consisting of generators,
retailers, and distribution network system provider (DNSPs) —
can also obtain significant benefit in terms of reducing peak
demand [10], lowering investment and operational costs [11],
minimizing reserve requirements [12], and improving power
system reliability [8].
However, trading in a P2P network is challenging. This is
because, in P2P trading, it is expected that prosumers will
trade their energy with one another with a very low (or, not
any) influence from a central controller, which makes P2P
platforms a trustless system. Hence, it is a challenging task to
encourage prosumers to cooperate in such a trustless environ-
ment [3]. Further, in an energy system with a large number of
users, it is difficult to model the decision making process for
various energy trading parameters given their rational choices
that can conflict with the interests of other prosumers in the
network [13]. Furthermore, electricity exchange is different
from any other exchange of goods. This is due to the fact
1949-3053 c© 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1055-7200
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0763-0032
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-9307-2120
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-8552-1301
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2062-131X
3186 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
that prosumers are part of an electricity network, which has
its own hard technical constraints on energy exchange [14].
Completely decentralized P2P trading could be detrimental
to maintaining the technical limits of the network within the
safety range [14]. Therefore, how to trade energy in the P2P
network without compromising the network’s security needs
to be addressed. Finally, a number of stakeholders in the
grid may request of prosumers P2P services with different
objectives in mind. Thus, innovations are needed in the pric-
ing scheme to prioritize these requests in order to deliver a
non-congested service throughout the entire network, while
keeping the network loss at a minimum [15].
To that end, a large number of interesting results have been
reported in the literature recently with the aim to address these
challenges. Due to the complex nature of the problem as well
as the broad range of techniques that have been used to solve
it, to have a grasp of the entire paradigm of current P2P trading
research has become a challenging task. However, an overall
understanding of the state-of-the art P2P research is impor-
tant in order to: 1) initiate new research direction in this field;
2) cater for new challenges that are forthcoming in the energy
sector; 3) develop more efficient and cost-effective energy trad-
ing mechanisms to deploy in real networks; and 4) design new
services via P2P trading. Thus, having clear insight into the
current state-of-the-art in P2P energy research could be bene-
ficial for new researchers of power and energy systems. This
is particularly true for investigators who want to contribute
to developing a sustainable future through distributed energy
resources.
Given this context, this paper aims to provide an overview of
disruptive innovations in current P2P energy trading research
contributing to revolutionizing the future energy sector by
making the following contributions:
• We provide a background discussion of P2P networks,
features of P2P trading, P2P energy markets, and an
overview of challenges in P2P trading.
• We determine the core technical approaches that are
adopted by current studies to devise various solutions in
P2P trading and provide a detailed discussion of each of
the techniques.
• We provide a number of potential research directions that
would be valuable to investigate as extensions of current
research practice.
We note that there are other recent review articles that dis-
cuss various aspects of P2P trading. For example, in [16], the
authors provide an overview of various P2P projects that are
currently being implemented in different parts of the world.
Extensive overviews of different types of P2P and community-
based market frameworks are described in [17] and [18]. How
different blockchain-based distributed ledger technologies can
be applied for various applications in the energy sector are
reviewed in [19] and [20], whereas the challenges and oppor-
tunities of these applications are discussed in [12]. Finally,
optimization techniques and other technical approaches for
energy trading are comprehensively reviewed in [21], and with
a particular focus on game-theoretic application in [13].
Indeed, these existing reviews have contributed extensively
to the body of energy trading knowledge that can provide
researchers with a good understanding of various technical
aspects of P2P trading. However, these reviews are suitable
mainly for those who have some understanding of energy trad-
ing, P2P networks, and demand response management. Our
paper, on the contrary, takes a step back and targets an audi-
ence with no or little prior knowledge of P2P trading and
provides a basic understanding of most of the aspects of P2P
trading including the definition, network elements, various
layers, and market structure of P2P networks. Then, by intro-
ducing the challenges and solution approaches for different
layers, this article helps readers to choose research directions
in a specific layer and then have an in-depth understanding of
the challenges and technical approaches relevant to that layer.
Further, this paper is also different from existing studies in
terms of organization and focus of discussion, which is mainly
the trading approaches for addressing challenges of relevant
layers. Note that this paper could also be a useful resource for
experienced researchers for revising their understanding of the
topic.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
we give an overview of the elements of P2P networks followed
by a review of P2P market structures in Section III. A detailed
overview of state-of-the-art research in P2P trading is pro-
vided in Section IV following a systematic classification. Key
technical approaches that have been applied for P2P trading
are identified and discussed in Section V. Finally, Section VI
provides a list of potential future research directions and
Section VII concludes the paper.
II. P2P TRADING: OVERVIEW OF NETWORK ELEMENTS
A distributed network architecture can be defined as a P2P
network, if the participants of the network share a part of
their own resources with one another. These shared resources
provide the service and content offered by the network and can
be accessed by other peers directly, without the intervention
of intermediary entities [22]. In addition, in a P2P network,
any entity can be removed or added, if necessary, without the
network suffering from any loss of network service. A formal
definition of P2P networks can be found in [9].
As shown in Fig. 1, P2P network can be divided into two
layers [13]: 1) virtual layer and 2) physical layer. The virtual
layer essentially provides a secured connection for participants
to decide on their energy trading parameters. It ensures that
all participants have equal access to a virtual platform, in
which transfer of all kinds of information takes place, buy
and sell orders are created, an appropriate market mechanism
is used to match the buy and sell orders, and finally, financial
transactions are carried out upon successful matching of the
orders.
The physical layer, on the other hand, is essentially a
physical network that facilitates the transfer of electricity
from sellers to buyers once the financial settlements between
both parties are completed over the virtual layer platform.
This physical network could be the traditional distributed-grid
network provided and maintained by the independent system
operator or an additional, separate physical microgrid distribu-
tion grid, in conjunction with the traditional grid [13]. It has
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3187
Fig. 1. An illustration of the physical layer and virtual layer platforms of a
P2P energy network.
the necessary framework to enable communication between
different prosumers and the grid. Here, it is important to note
that the financial settlements between different prosumers in
the virtual platform does not warrant the physical delivery of
electricity; rather, the payment can be thought of as indication
from the buyers to their producing prosumers within the P2P
network to process the injecting of renewable energy into the
distribution grid.
Now, to successfully enable energy trading between differ-
ent prosumers within the P2P network, it should have a number
of key elements. A summary of these elements is given below.
A. Elements in the Virtual Layer
1) Information System: The heart of the P2P energy
network is a high-performing and secured information system.
The information system needs to be able to: 1) enable all
market participants to communicate with one another for par-
ticipating in energy trading; 2) integrate the participants within
a suitable market platform; 3) give the participants equal
access to the market; 4) monitor the market operation; and
5) set restrictions on participants’ decisions to ensure network
security and reliability. Examples of such information systems
include blockchain-based smart contracts [23], consortium
blockchain [24], [25], and Elecbay [10].
2) Market Operation: The information system of a P2P
network facilitates the market operation consisting of market
allocation, payment rules, and a clearly defined bidding for-
mat. The main objective of market operation is to enable the
participants to experience an efficient energy trading process
by matching the sell and buy orders in near real-time granular-
ity. In market operations, energy generation of each producer
influences the thresholds of a maximum and minimum allo-
cation of energy. Different market-time horizons may exist in
the market operation that should be able to produce enough
allocation of energy at every stage of operation.
3) Pricing Mechanism: Pricing mechanisms are designed
as parts of market operations and used to efficiently balance
between the energy supply and demand. Pricing mechanisms
used for P2P trading have a basic difference with that of the
traditional electricity markets. For example, in traditional elec-
tricity markets, a significant portion of electricity price consists
of electricity surcharges and taxes. However, as renewable
energies typically have very low marginal costs [11], pro-
sumers can reap more profits by suitably setting prices for
their energies. Nonetheless, pricing mechanisms need to reflect
the state of energy within the P2P network, that is, a higher
surplus of energy within the network should lower the energy
price and vice versa.
4) Energy Management System: While participating in P2P
trading via a particular bidding mechanism, the energy man-
agement system (EMS) of a prosumer secures its supply of
energy. To that end, an EMS has access to the real-time supply
and demand information of the prosumer through the trans-
active meter based on which it develops the generation and
consumption profile of the prosumer and subsequently decides
the bidding strategy to participate in the trading on behalf
of the prosumer. For example, The EMS of a rational pro-
sumer may always buy energy in the microgrid market when
the price per unit of energy falls below its maximum price
threshold [13].
B. Elements in the Physical Layer
1) Grid Connection: P2P trading can be done for both grid-
connected and islanded microgrid systems. For balancing the
energy demand and generation in a grid-connected system, it
is important to define the connection points of the main grid.
By connecting smart meters at these connection points, it is
possible to evaluate the performance of the P2P network, for
example, in terms of energy and cost savings [13]. For islanded
microgrids, on the other hand, participants should have enough
generation capacity to ensure an appropriate level of security
and reliability in supplying energy to consumers.
2) Metering: Each prosumer should have appropriate
metering infrastructure to be able to participate in P2P trad-
ing. In particular, each prosumer should be equipped with
a transactive meter [13], in addition to a traditional energy
meter. A transactive energy is capable of deciding whether
to participate in the P2P market based on the demand and
generation data as well as the information available about mar-
ket conditions (price, total demand, total available generation,
and network conditions). It can also communicate with other
prosumers in the network by any appropriate communication
protocol.
3) Communication Infrastructure: In P2P trading, the
major requirement of communication is the discovery of pro-
sumers and information exchange within the network. Multiple
P2P communication architectures exist in the literature includ-
ing structured, unstructured, and hybrid architectures [26].
The choice of a communication architecture needs to ful-
fill the performance requirements recommended by the IEEE
1547.3-2007 for the integration of DER that include latency,
throughput, reliability, and security [26].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3188 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
Fig. 2. Different elements of P2P network.
C. Other Elements
1) Market Participants: For P2P energy trading, the exis-
tence of a sufficient number of market participants within the
network is necessary and a subgroup of the participants needs
to have the capacity to produce energy. The purpose of P2P
energy trading affects the design of pricing schemes and the
market mechanism and therefore should be clearly defined.
Further, the form of energy (that is, electricity or heat) traded.
2) Regulation: The success of P2P trading in the future
electricity market will probably be mostly governed by the
regulation and energy policy. That is, governmental rules of a
country decide what kind of market design will be allowed,
how taxes and fees will be distributed, and how the P2P mar-
ket will be into the existing energy market and supply systems.
Thus, governments can support P2P energy markets to acceler-
ate the efficient utilization of renewable energy resources and
decrease environmental degeneration by regulatory changes.
On the contrary, they can discourage the implementation of
such markets as well if that impacts detrimentally current
energy systems. An overview of the elements of P2P network
is shown in 2.
III. P2P TRADING: OVERVIEW OF MARKET STRUCTURE
In contrast to the top-down approach of the current energy
market, P2P energy trading would require reorganizing elec-
tricity markets within decentralized management and collab-
orative principle that will allow for a bottom-up approach to
empower prosumers [17]. Now, to determine how energy trad-
ing can be conducted in a P2P network, as shown in Fig. 3,
the market structures that have been proposed in the literature
can be divided into three types: 1) Full decentralized markets;
2) Community-based markets; and 3) Composite markets.
1) Fully decentralized market: In a fully decentralized
P2P market, participating prosumers can independently and
directly negotiate with one another to decide on the energy
trading parameters without any centralized supervision. Such
decentralization of a P2P market relies on bilateral con-
tracts between individual prosumers as proposed in [27].
Through the designed contract, [27] captures both upstream-
downstream energy balance and forward market uncertainty
within the model. In [28], the authors propose another
fully decentralized market for multi-bilateral economic dis-
patch, where prosumers with energy demand can choose their
Fig. 3. Illustration of different types of markets as proposed in the literature
for P2P trading.
preferences for the type of energy source, such as local or
green energy, for trading. Other examples of fully decentral-
ized markets can be found in [11] and [29], where in [11], the
authors discuss various properties of decentralized markets by
referring to a test case of the Brooklyn microgrid. In [29],
on the other hand, the authors propose a distributed approach
based on the consensus and innovations method to coordinate
local generation, flexible load, and storage devices within the
microgrid to derive a distributed economic dispatch algorithm.
2) Community-based market: A community-based P2P mar-
ket can readily be applied to community microgrids [30], [31]
and group of neighboring prosumers [32], in which the mem-
bers of the community share common interests and goals even
though they are not at the same location. The members may
work either in a collaborative [33] or a competitive man-
ner [32]. In a community-based P2P market, each member
generally trades its energy within the community through a
community manager. Indeed, a peer may also choose to trade
its energy with someone outside the community, in which the
community manager has a function associated with the energy
exchanged with the outside world. Thus, a community man-
ager manages the trading activities within the community, for
example, by mimicking the role of an auctioneer [32], and
also acts as an intermediary between the community and rest
of the system [17]. Under community-based P2P energy trad-
ing, the privacy of preferences and strategic schemes of each
participant within the community are preserved [33]. Further,
the preferences of different classes of prosumers are reflected
in their choice of energy parameters to trade within the com-
munity [34]. A demonstration of a community-based market
is shown in Fig. 3.
3) Composite market: A composite market is essentially a
combination of fully decentralized and community-based mar-
kets in which each community and each single prosumer can
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3189
Fig. 4. Demonstration of how the coordination between regulated and
deregulated P2P market with prosumers with distributed energy resources
(DERs) is captured in [6]. Prosumers energy trading switches from regulated
to deregulated P2P market with a price signal from the grid.
interact with one another, while maintaining their own market
properties. That is, on the one hand, each individual prosumer
can engage in P2P trading between themselves, while also
interacting with existing markets like fully distributed markets.
On the other hand, a community manager can also oversee the
trading inside a community. In such a market, prosumers may
be nested into each other and form a community for trad-
ing within the neighborhood community. Examples of such
markets can be found in [35] and [36].
Now, in a grid-connected system, a prosumer may need
to deal with both regulated and deregulated P2P mar-
kets. Hence, how to integrate both of them in a single
paradigm remains a challenge. Nonetheless, existing litera-
ture sheds some light on the possible ways for co-existence
of such markets. For instance, in [4], the authors pro-
pose a three-party energy trading technique in which a
community manager primarily participates in community-
based P2P trading with the prosumers of its community in
order to meet its demand for energy for maintaining dif-
ferent community facilities. However, the participation of
the community manager in a regulated market for energy
becomes necessary when it is unable to procure all required
energy from the prosumers within a community. In that
case, the community manager buys energy from a regulated
market.
Another interesting discussion of a potential integration
scenario is proposed in [6], in which prosumers primarily
purchase their energy from a regulated electricity market as
traditional customers. Now, when there is an extensive demand
for energy from the grid, the grid sends a price signal to
its selected prosumers to refrain from buying any energy
from it for a specific period of time. Subsequently, prosumers
form a fully decentralized P2P market among themselves and
meet their demand for energy from their local generation. A
graphical presentation of this market mechanism is shown in
Fig. 4.
IV. P2P TRADING: OVERVIEW OF EXISTING CHALLENGES
Indeed, by participating in different energy market struc-
tures, on the one hand, the ultimate objective of P2P trading
participants is to address a number of challenges related to
energy trading including reducing the cost of energy usage,
increasing and maintaining the sustainable use of renewable
energy, and improving social engagement of prosumers. On
the other hand, the decision making process of the prosumers
to address these challenges are limited by the hard constraints
imposed by the power network operators for ensuring the
reliable operation of the power system without violating the
voltage limit at prosumers’ nodes, while keeping the overall
network loss within reasonable limits. As such, what follows
is an overview of how existing studies have developed P2P
trading schemes as viable energy management techniques to
solve various significant challenges of future smart grid.
A. P2P Trading Challenges in Virtual Layer
Studies proposed in the existing literature mainly focus on
designing P2P energy trading mechanisms based on suitable
pricing schemes that can enable participation of an extensive
number of prosumers. Financial transactions are required to be
securely conducted without involving a third party manager,
while, at the same time, the trading should contribute to the
achievement of desirable objectives of balancing local supply
and demand, reducing prosumers’ energy costs, and peak load
shaving. As such, based on the focus of the study, the existing
literature related to the virtual layer platform can be divided
into five general categories as outlined below.
1) Reducing Cost of Energy: First category of studies pro-
pose how P2P trading can reduce prosumers cost of energy.
Essentially, P2P trading enables small-scale prosumers with
distributed energy resources to sell their excess energy, if any,
to prosumers with energy deficiency, which has been shown
to be very effective in reducing energy cost significantly [37],
[38]. Indeed, to facilitate such a trading mechanism, interaction
among participating prosumers is the key [30], [39], [40], [41].
The performance of P2P in terms of cost savings can further
be improved if the batteries incorporated within the system
also participate in the market [42], [43], [44]. It is important
to note that P2P trading is effective in reducing prosumers’
costs for a number of energy trading scenarios including open
market urban and remote systems [45], fully decentralized
systems [9], [46], and community-based microgrids [42].
2) Balancing Local Generation and Demand: The reduc-
tion in energy cost in P2P trading is due to its ability to
enable prosumers with deficiency to meet their demand by
buying the required energy from prosumers with energy sur-
plus at a cheaper rate [3], [4] compared to the traditional
market. However, such trading in a local environment neces-
sitates the balance of supply and demand of energy within
the community, which is the focus of the second category of
studies. Now, for balancing the demand and supply, a ledger
is necessary that can track all the transactions as well as the
available supply from and demand of each participating pro-
sumers. In P2P trading, this is currently achieved by using
blockchain based platforms, as shown in [25], [47], [48],
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3190 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
and [49]. Under the blockchain platform, prosumers learn the
energy usage pattern of different sellers and buyers [50], man-
age their own energy consumption through residential demand
response schemes [51], and then trade with one another, when-
ever applicable, within the local community [30] to keep the
balance between supply and demand. Indeed, if there is still
an imbalance between the supply and demand, that can be
fulfilled by the grid [3], community storage [52], or diesel
generator [80] in expense of higher costs.
3) Incentivizing & Engaging Prosumers: Clearly, to suc-
cessfully reap the benefits explaining in the previous two
sections, prosumers need to be actively involved in the trad-
ing mechanism [53]. This is only possible if prosumers find
outcomes of the P2P trading beneficial for them. Hence, the
mechanisms need to be prosumer-centric [9] (also, known
as consumer-centric [81]). The third category of existing lit-
erature devote its efforts to determine how to incentivize
prosumers to extensively participate in P2P trading. Under this
category, a large number of techniques have been proposed
to ensure prosumer-centric delivery of outcomes including
multi-class energy management [34], motivational psychol-
ogy [3], bilateral contract theory [27], [54], reinforcement
learning [50], [56], game theory [3], prediction-integrated
double auction [57], consensus-based approach [28], and
aggregated battery control technique [42], [55].
4) Developing Pricing Mechanism: Extensive prosumers’
engagement in P2P trading and the subsequent benefits exclu-
sively depend on the financing transactions among the par-
ticipating buyers and sellers in the trading. Therefore, there
is a need for innovative pricing schemes that are particularly
applicable for P2P trading, which is the main aspect of the
fourth category of study in the existing literature. For exam-
ple, in [24], a credit-based pricing scheme is proposed for fast
and frequent energy trading. Based on different type of pro-
sumer classes, a distributed price-directed optimization scheme
is studied in [34]. A discrimination pricing scheme suitable to
deploy in P2P network is discusses in [58]. Other example of
different pricing schemes can also be found in [59] and [60].
5) Identifying Uncertainty and Asynchronicity: While P2P
markets have substantial advantages in terms of product differ-
entiation, customer involvement, and low transaction costs, the
market outcome could be suboptimal if interaction and nego-
tiation mechanisms are not adequately designed. In particular,
when a large number of prosumers engage in P2P transactions,
computation and communication complexity issues must be
resolved for robust system operation. As such, extensive com-
putational analysis of existing decentralized and distributed
algorithms is provided in [61]. It is identified that both com-
putation and communication complexity impact the average
time per iteration. Computation delays appear in cases of non-
performing hardware and solving complicated optimization
sub-problems. Communication delays are caused by band-
width limits or Internet traffic. Other examples of such studies
can be found in [62] and [63].
6) Securing Transactions: To seamlessly engage prosumers
to perform P2P trading, the financial transactions among them-
selves need to carry out securely. Further, the buy and sell
orders and price information also need to be available over a
secured platform for the prosumers to be incentivized and par-
ticipate in the trading [64]. As such, the fifth and final category
of studies, as outlined in this paper, deal with securing P2P
transactions over the virtual layer platform. Different types of
secured transactions are modeled based on the blockchain plat-
form. For example, consortium blockchains are implemented
in [24] and [25] for conducting P2P trading for electric vehi-
cles and Industrial Internet-of-Things respectively. For energy
trading in a residential community, some popular examples
of secured transaction platform include Hyperledger [48],
Elecbay [10], smart contracts [23], [47], Ethereum [65], and
multi-signature blockchain [66].
We note that other than the discussed categories, P2P trading
is also conducted to achieve peak load shaving [82] and setup
virtual power plant [8] to provide ancillary services to the grid.
A summary of the existing studies that deal with P2P trading
in the virtual layer platform is given in Table I.
B. P2P Trading Challenges in Physical Layer
The state-of-the-research in the virtual layer platform has
laid the foundation for performing P2P trading in the energy
network by capturing decision making process of prosumers
in secured and transparent energy trading platforms as well as
devising pricing scheme to ensure their extensive participation.
However, once the decision of the energy trading parame-
ters is established at the virtual layer, the actual transfer of
an agreed amount of energy is transferred over the physi-
cal layer. Now, the power system puts hard constraints on
the exchange of energy over its network [14]. As a conse-
quence, if the decision making process in the virtual layer
platform does not consider the potential impact of P2P trading
of energy on the physical layer platform, the transfer of energy
may violate a number of technical constraints. For example,
in [68], we discuss the feasibility of P2P trading in a grid-
connected power network, in which it is shown that some of
the bus voltages may exceed the network imposed voltage limit
and compromise the security and reliability of the network
if P2P trading is coordinated ignoring the constraints of the
network.
Given this context, recently, there has been a growing
interest to address challenges that may impede the transfer of
energy over the physical layer platform of P2P networks. In
particular, three types of network challenges have been being
studied in the existing literature: 1) Violation of voltage and
capacity constraints, 2) increase in network power loss, and
3) loss of system strength. An overview of these challenges is
illustrated in Fig. 5.
1) Violation of Voltage & Capacity Constraints: Since, res-
idential users who act as prosumers are connected to low
voltage distribution systems, their active participation in P2P
trading could cause an over voltage issue [68] and reverse
power flow [69]. To combat such cases, a novel methodol-
ogy based on sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of P2P
transmission on the network and the subsequent cost with the
associate energy exchange is studied in [14]. Now, the inverters
installed within the prosumers’ premises primarily responsible
for pushing power to the network and extensive transaction of
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3191
TABLE I
SUMMARY OF DIFFERENT CATEGORIES OF STUDIES THAT STRIVE TO ACHIEVE VARIOUS OBJECTIVES
IN THE VIRTUAL LAYER AND PHYSICAL LAYER PLATFORMS
Fig. 5. Illustration of challenges of the physical layer of P2P network.
energy over the P2P network would obviously increase the
load on the inverters. This can be reduced by exploiting grid
voltage support algorithms for smart photovoltaic inverters,
based on distributed optimization and peer-to-peer communi-
cation [70]. Another resulting detrimental impact of pushing
power by an extensive number of prosumers in the network
could be the operational overhead, which can increase the
expense of energy transportation due to the requirement of a
long chain maintaining of many blocks [23]. A blockchain-
based P2P trading scheme exploiting local energy storage
is shown to be effective to avoid such scenarios in [23].
Finally, how large prosumsers like community-microgrids that
are operated in multiple voltage levels can participate in energy
transfer is discussed in [71].
2) Increase in Network Power Loss: While power exchange
between sellers and buyers via P2P trading could increase the
node voltages and overload the network capacity, it inevitably
incurs losses as well. Consequently, this entails extra energy
amounts and costs, above the local net demand, that needs
to be produced and recovered by each market entry [72].
To that end, a graph-based loss allocation scheme to har-
monize the physical attributes of the low voltage distribution
grid is proposed and tested in [72]. Another cost allocation
mechanism is proposed in [15], in which costly incentives
are used to allocate P2P market related grid costs to the
participants by the system operator. In this allocation pro-
cess, a degree of freedom is given to the system operator
to reach cost recovery. Other than cost allocation, another
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3192 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
TABLE II
SUMMARY OF THE DIFFERENT TECHNICAL APPROACHES ADOPTED TO ENABLE P2P ENERGY TRADING
interesting mechanism to reduce the loss during P2P trading
could be to choose an optimal power routing strategy [73].
By doing to, as shown in [73], it is possible to optimize
power dispatching with the minimum power loss ratio between
the power seller and buyer within the P2P network. Finally,
energy classes are introduced in [34] to allow energy to be
treated as a heterogeneous product and to coordinate P2P
energy trading to minimize the cost associated with network
losses.
3) Loss of System Strength: Synchronous generators make
major contributions to re-stabilize power systems following
voltage/frequency disturbances by providing system strength
and inertia [74]. However, as technologies like P2P trading
penetrate the market, the growth of renewable energy sources
within the system has been extensive. This necessitates the
retirement of a large number of synchronous generators in
recent times. As a consequence, maintaining system strength
in renewable dominated power networks is becoming more and
more challenging [75]. A typical example of system failure due
to lack of system inertia can be found in the recent blackout
in South Australia [76].
As such, the necessity of investigating the impact of renew-
able energy sources on the system strength has become very
important in the current context. Some example of such stud-
ies can be found in [77], [78] and [79]. In [77], a real-time
method is designed for solar plants that coordinates pho-
tovoltaic inverters and battery storage systems in order to
provide voltage regulation. The authors in [78] propose a site-
dependent short-circuit ratio to analyze the system strength
and voltage variability of renewable dominated power systems.
Finally, [79] considers the characteristics of diesel engines
such as time-delay management, spinning reserve strategies,
and ramp rate to develop an optimal photovoltaic-storage con-
trol strategy and capacity in order to combat the variability of
photovoltaic output.
Now, clearly, implementing P2P trading in power system
networks is challenging. As such, to deliver trading schemes
that address the challenges of both virtual layer and phys-
ical layer platforms simultaneously, a number of technical
approaches have been adopted. To this end, what follows in
the next section is an overview of technical approaches that
have been proven to be effective in modeling P2P trading in
the virtual and physical layer platforms.
V. P2P TRADING: OVERVIEW OF TECHNICAL
APPROACHES
Based on the approaches adopted by recent studies, four
general techniques can be identified as the main contribu-
tors to the design of existing P2P energy trading schemes.
They are 1) game theory, 2) auction theory, 3) constrained
optimization, and 4) blockchain. An overview of different tech-
nical approaches adopted by existing studies is summarized in
Table II.
A. Game Theory
1) Preliminary: Game theory is a mathematical tool that
analyzes the strategic decision making process of a number
of players in a competitive situation, in which the decision of
action taken by one player depends on and affects the actions
of other players [87]. Game theory can generally be divided
into two categories: non-cooperative games and cooperative
games.
Non-cooperative game: In non-cooperative games, the
strategic decision-making process of a number of independent
players that have partially or completely conflicting interests
are analyzed to determine outcomes that are influenced by their
actions. In such games, players take their decisions without
communicating with one another. Any cooperation that may
arise in a non-cooperative game cannot be a result of either
communication or coordination of strategic choices among
players [88].
In general, two types of non-cooperative games have been
used for designing energy trading schemes: static games and
dynamic games. In a static game, players take their actions
once only, either simultaneously or at different times. In a
dynamic game, on the other hand, time plays a central role
in the decision making process of each player. Players in a
dynamic game act more than once and have inputs regarding
the choices of other players.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3193
The most popular solution concept of a non-cooperative
game is the Nash equilibrium [89]. Essentially, a Nash equi-
librium refers to a stable state of a non-cooperative game in
which no player can be better paid off by unilaterally deviating
from its action, provided all other players are also taking their
Nash equilibrium strategies. For instance, let a static game �
be defined by � = {N , sn, Un}, where N is the set of all
players participating in the game, sn is the vector of strate-
gies of player n ∈ N , and Un is the utility function of n that
reflects the benefit that the player n can reap by choosing a
strategy sn. Now, the Nash equilibrium of � can be defined as
{s∗ : s∗ = [s∗
n, s∗−n], Un(s∗) ≥ Un(sn, s∗−n)}. Here, s∗−n is the
strategy vector of players in N \{n}.
A particular non-cooperative game that has extensively been
used to design P2P trading in the literature is the Stackelberg
game [89]. A Stacklelberg game is essentially a strategic game
in which at least one player is defined as the leader who makes
its decision first and commit a strategy before other players.
Other players, on the other hand, act as the followers in the
game, who optimize their strategies in response to the action
taken by the leader. The solution concept of a Stackelberg
game is the Stackelberg equilibrium, in which followers par-
ticipate in a non-cooperative Nash game among themselves
and reach a Nash equilibrium in response to the Leader’s
decision. At the Stackelberg equilibrium, neither the leader
nor any follower has any incentive to deviate from its chosen
strategy [6], [32].
Cooperative game: Cooperative games, also known as coali-
tional games, deal with incentives that can make independent
decision makers to act together as one entity to improve their
position in the game. The most common form of coalitional
game is the characteristic form [88], where the value of coali-
tion is determined by the members of the coalition irrespective
of the structure of the coalition. Now, coalition games can be
classified into three types.
a) Canonical coalition game: In canonical coalition
games, forming a grand coalition with all players is never
detrimental to any participant of the game. Consequently, the
main objectives of such a game is to determine whether or
not a grand coalition can be formed, to investigate if the
grand coalition is stable, and to formulate a fair revenue dis-
tribution scheme for distributing the gains of coalition among
the players. The most commonly considered solution concept
of a canonical coalition game is the core [88]. Meanwhile,
for revenue distribution, the most popular methods include
the Shapley value, the Kernel, the nucleolus, and the strong
epsilon-core.
b) Coalition formation game: The objective of static
coalition formation game is to study the network coalitional
structure. In a dynamic coalitional game, on contrary, the game
is subject to environmental changes, including a change in
the number of players or a variation in network topology.
Therefore, the main objective of this type of dynamic game is
to study the formation of a coalitional structure through play-
ers’ interactions and inquire the properties of the structure and
its adaptability to environmental variations [13].
c) Coalitional graph game: Coalition graph games deal
with the connectivity of communications between players of
the game. The main objectives are to derive low complexity
distributed algorithms for players who want to build network
graphs and to study the properties of the graphs [88].
2) Game Theory for P2P Trading in the Virtual Layer:
In the virtual layer platform, game theory has been exten-
sively used to obtain different objectives that are outlined in
Section V-A2. For example, Stackelberg game has been used to
reduce the cost of energy [30], [39], [43] and to design suitable
pricing scheme for secured transaction in P2P trading [24].
The application of non-cooperative Nash games in P2P trad-
ing can be found for reducing energy cost [46], balancing
local generation and demand [10], [47], [49], encouraging pro-
sumers’ participation in the trading [27], [83], improving the
security of transaction [64] and peak shaving [82]. Finally, the
authors in [3], [9], [40], and [84] demonstrate how the frame-
work of a canonical coalition game can be used to obtain
reduction in energy cost via balancing local generation and
demand, fairness in deciding the trading price, and increased
participation of prosumers in P2P trading respectively.
3) Game Theory for P2P Trading in the Physical Layer:
In the physical layer platform, however, the application of
game theory has been limited so far. One application of
a multiple-leader-multiple-follower Stackelberg game can be
found in [85] with an objective to study the influence level of
transmission losses on trading behavior of retailers and con-
sumers. In particular, the authors propose a credit rating based
optimal pricing and energy scheduling model by considering
retailers as leaders and consumers as followers. It is shown
that transmission losses cannot be ignored in energy trading,
which, if avoided, could result in a large difference between
actual power received by consumers and their demands.
B. Double Auction
1) Preliminary: A double auction involves a market of a
number of buyers and sellers seeking to interact so as to trade
their goods [90]. In a double auction, potential buyers submit
their bids to an auctioneer while, at the same time, poten-
tial sellers simultaneously ask prices to the auctioneer. This is
usually done through a step-by-step process as follows [91]:
(1) Sellers submit their reservation prices in an increasing
order.
(2) Buyers are arranged in a decreasing order of their
reservation bids.
(3) Once the sellers and buyers orders are ordered, the
aggregated supply and demand curves are generated that
meet at a intersection point.
(4) The intersection point establishes the auction price and
the number of seller and buyers that eventually engage
in the market trading process.
In the double auction process, the sellers and buyers need to
truthfully report their reservation prices and bids for efficient
operation of the market. Hence, auction mechanisms need to
satisfy the properties of individual rationality and incentive
compatibility [32]. Now, a double auction scheme is said to
possess the property of individual rationality if the utility that
a prosumer receives for participating in the auction mechanism
cannot be improved otherwise, provided all other prosumers in
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3194 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
the auction are choosing their selected strategies. Meanwhile,
a double auction mechanism is called incentive-compatible, if
every participant of the auction mechanism can achieve the
best outcome to themselves by acting upon their true prefer-
ence that they revealed during the above mentioned Steps 1
and 2.
2) Double Auction for P2P Trading in the Virtual Layer:
In the virtual layer platform, double auction technique has
been used by [25], [51], [57], [82] to achieve objectives of
balancing local generation and demand, shaping the demand
at the peak hour, and improving prosumers engagement in the
trading. For example, the authors in [25] propose a consortium
blockchain enabled double auction mechanism to decide on the
electricity price and traded energy amount by the prosumers
in order to maintain the balance between the local generation
and supply. For a similar purpose, an optimal bidding strategy
via a double auction is proposed in [51] for residential houses.
In [82] and [57], the authors exploit a Nash bargaining model
and data-driven prediction-integration models respectively to
design the double auction frameworks with the purpose of
reducing peak demand and improving prosumers’ engagement
in P2P trading.
3) Double Auction for P2P Trading in the Physical Layer:
The application of double auction to address problems related
to physical layer platform is elaborated in [14]. In particu-
lar, [14] propose a decentralized P2P architecture that can
facilitate local energy trading. In designing the scheme, the
authors explicitly take into account the underlying network
constraints at the distribution level. The market mechanism is
developed using a continuous double auction technique, a sim-
ple market format that matches parties interested in trading,
rather than holding any of the traded commodity itself. As
such, this scheme is very well suited for P2P exchanges. It is
further shown in [14] that in continuous double auctions com-
prising bidders with rational goals (i.e., participants only trade
at a profit), trades are always Pareto-improving. Subsequently,
the continuous double auction moves towards an allocation
that is Pareto efficient with a highly efficient allocation of
commodities [92].
C. Constrained Optimization
1) Preliminaries: A number of constrained optimization
techniques have been used to design P2P energy trading
schemes. Examples of some techniques include linear pro-
gramming (LP), mixed integer linear programming (MILP),
alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM), and
nonlinear programming (NLP).
a) LP: LP is a mathematical programming technique
to achieve the optimal outcome in a mathematical model, in
which all requirements are presented by linear forms. Any LP
can be expressed in its canonical form as
Maximize bTx, (1)
such that Ax ≤ c, and x ≥ 0. Here, x is the vector of vari-
ables to be determined, c and b are coefficient vectors, A
is a matrix of coefficients, and (·)T is the transpose of (·).
The expression in (1) is called the objective function and the
inequalities Ax ≤ c and x ≥ 0 are known as the constraints
that need to be satisfied.
b) MILP: MILP is a special case of integer linear
programming, in which only some of the variables are con-
strained to be integers and, unlike integer linear programming,
other variables are allowed to be non-integer. Mathematically,
an MILP can be expressed as same as an integer linear
programming
Maximize bTx, (2)
subject to Ax + s = c, x ≥ 0, s ≥ 0, and x ∈ Z
n, where some
of the entries are not integer.
c) ADMM: ADMM is an algorithm that solves convex
optimization problems by breaking them into smaller pieces,
each of which are then easier to handle [93]. Essentially,
ADMM is a variant of augmented Lagrangian scheme that
uses partial updates for the dual variables. This can be
mathematically expressed for a maximization problem as
Maximizex,z f (x) + g(z), (3)
subject to Ax + Bz = c, where is z is a vector of second
variables. Thus, ADMM can have two objectives with two
separate sets of variables.
d) NLP: NLP is a mathematical technique that solves
an optimization problem, in which the objective function is
non-linear and/or the feasible region is determined by non-
linear constraints. In maximization form, the problem can
be expresses as that in (1) with nonlinear objective function
and/or nonlinear constraints.
2) Constrained Optimization for P2P Trading in the Virtual
Layer: Different constrained optimization techniques have
been heavily utilized in the literature to design P2P energy
trading techniques in the virtual layer platform. For exam-
ple, in [55], the authors exploit a LP approach to design a
novel multi-energy management strategy based on the comple-
mentarity of multi-energy demand with the purpose to explore
optimal energy scheduling problems of prosumers. An MILP
technique is used by [44] to optimize the use of energy gener-
ated from the rooftop solar with battery for P2P energy trading.
A multi-class energy management technique with the purpose
of P2P trading is designed in [34] using ADMM optimization
technique. The application of NLP in [42] is for designing a
P2P energy sharing mechanism in a community through aggre-
gated battery control. Further use of constrained optimization
in P2P trading can be found in [37] and [54].
3) Constrained Optimization for P2P Trading in the
Physical Layer: In the physical layer, the most popular con-
strained optimization technique has been ADMM as can be
seen from its application in [15] and [70]. In [15], authors
discusses a decentralized consensus ADMM to develop a cost
allocation mechanism that enable prosumers to share the cost
of using common infrastructure and services for P2P trad-
ing. Meanwhile, ADMM is utilized in [70] to locally optimize
reactive power compensation and active power curtailment of
each inverter participating in the P2P trading for voltage con-
trol purposes. Besides, ADMM, the application of constrained
optimization has also been exploited in [73] for addressing
network loss issues at the physical layer.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3195
D. Blockchain
1) Preliminaries: Blockchain, which was first introduced
in [94], is a distributed data structure that is replicated and
shared among the members of a network. With blockchain in
place, applications that could previously run only through a
trusted intermediary, can now operate in a decentralized fash-
ion, without the need for a central authority, and achieve the
same functionality with the same amount of certainty [95].
Thus, given the properties of P2P trading, blockchain has pro-
found applications in the future energy network. This has led
to establish a number of blockchain based platforms for P2P
energy trading in recent times.
a) Smart contracts: The smart contract is essentially a
computerized transaction protocol that executed the terms of a
contract [96]. By translating contractual clauses into code and
embedding them into property that can enforce them, the need
for trusted intermediaries between transacting parties, and the
occurance of malicious and accidental exceptions can be mini-
mized [95]. Within the blockchain context, smart contracts are
scripts stored on the blockchain with a unique address [86]. A
smart contract is triggered by addressing a transaction to it. It
then executes independently and automatically in a prescribed
manner on every node in the network, according to the data
that was included in the triggering transaction.
b) Elecbay: The elecbay is a software platform dedicated
to the development of P2P trading within a microgrid. Each
order contains the information including the time period for
the energy exchange, the amount of energy to be exchanged,
the price of the energy to be exchanged and the details
about the seller and buyer. After the orders are placed by
peers, they are either accepted or rejected by Elecbay, based
on the network constraints. After the order acceptance or
rejection, each peer generates/consumes the amount of energy
as promised in the accepted orders and energy is deliv-
ered through the distribution network. Further details of the
platform can be found in [10].
c) Consortium blockchain: The consortium blockchain is
a specific blockchain with multiple authorized nodes to estab-
lish the distributed shared ledger with moderate cost [25].
It is established on authorized nodes to publicly audit and
share transaction records without relying on a trusted third
party. During P2P trading, energy transaction records among
peers are uploaded to the authorized nodes after encryption.
The authorized nodes run an algorithm to audit the transac-
tions and record them into the shared ledger. This ledger is
publicly accessed by participating peers and authorized nodes
connected to the consortium blockchain.
d) Hyperledger: The hyperledger is an open source col-
laborative effort, hosted by the Linux Foundation, to advance
cross-industry blockchain technologies [97]. It uses a con-
sensus mechanism to create a transparent and non-tampering
distributed ledger. According to [98], the core module of the
Hyperledger IBM runs in an open platform called Docker.
When a peer within the system wants to trade, it logs into the
system through the blockchain system terminal and submits
the appropriate transaction. After the transaction is submit-
ted, the transaction information is sent to a power trading
unit to analyse and initiate the transaction. The information
is mapped in the database in the form of key and value
for user query. When mapping is complete, the power trad-
ing unit carries out the dispatching to complete the power
trading.
e) Ethereum: The Ethereum, which was launched in
2015, is a programmable public blockchain with a native cryp-
tocurrency called Ether [99]. While the structure of Ethereum
is very similar to that of bitcoin, a big difference is that in
ethereum nodes also store the most recent state of each smart
contract, in addition to all other ether transactions. For each
ethereum application, the network needs to keep track of the
current information of all of these applications, including each
peer’s balance, all the smart contract code, and the location
where it’s all stored. Like bank account funds, ether tokens
appear in a wallet, and can be ported to another account.
Besides the outlined classification, other modified versions
of blockchain based approaches have also been used for secur-
ing energy trading in smart grid. Examples of such modified
schemes can be found in [40] and [66].
2) Blockchain for P2P Trading in the Virtual Layer: In
the virtual layer, existing studies have exploited a large vari-
ation of blockchain based platforms to ensure secure and
transparent energy trading. In [40], the authors propose a
blockchain based system, which is based on a parallel double-
chain combined with a high frequency verification mechanism
to enable a trusted and secure settlement of electricity trading
transactions. To achieve a similar energy trading performance
among plug-in hybrid electric vehicles within an electricity
market, [25] and [24] develop trading platforms using con-
sortium blockchain. A multi-signature based blockchain is
designed in [66] to provide transaction security in decentral-
ized energy trading in smart grid without reliance on trusted
third parties. Using smart contracts, secured P2P trading
between energy storage systems and heterogeneous end-users
from residential, commercial, and industry sectors are per-
formed in [47] and [49] respectively. In [48], the authors
utilize the IBM hyperledger fabric architecture to create an
operational model of crowdsourced energy systems in distri-
bution networks considering various types of energy trading
transactions and crowdsources. For secured energy trading in
microgrids, Elecbay is proposed in [10]. Further application
of blockchain based platforms for decentralized energy sup-
ply and demand management via P2P trading can be found
in [59], [64], [65] and [100].
3) Blockchain for P2P Trading in the Physical Layer:
Since the physical layer is mainly responsible for accommo-
dating the transfer of energy from sellers to buyers after the
secured transactions, the focus of how the security of such
transactions may impact physical layer performance is not
necessary and therefore has not been reported to date. Now,
while game theory, double auction, constrained optimization,
and blockchain have been extensively used in the literature for
designing P2P energy trading scheme, a number of new other
methods are also becoming popular. Examples of such emerg-
ing techniques include graph theory [72], heuristic multi-agent
simulation [101], artificial intelligence [50], [56], and activity
based models [38].
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3196 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
Fig. 6. Overview of different challenges of P2P trading for future research.
VI. DISCUSSION ON FUTURE RESEARCH DIRECTION
Note that despite extensive attention in the last couple of
years, energy-management research for peer-to-peer networks
is relatively new. Hence, much work is yet to be done before
the integration of peer-to-peer energy trading into the current
energy system. To that end, what follows is a description of
a number of challenges that require further investigation as
future research topics in the area of P2P trading. An overview
of these challenges is also illustrated in Fig. 6.
a) Network charge identification: Unlike traditional electric-
ity systems, prosumers do not use the entire energy network
for peer-to-peer trading. Therefore, the way they are currently
being charged in their electricity bills needs to be researched
and revised for billing them under a peer-to-peer trading
paradigm.
b) Large scale network trading and simulation: Since the
flow of electricity cannot be regulated, it is unlikely for a very
large network that the intended receiver will receive the actual
power that has been pushed to the network by the sender.
Hence, the power loss due to peer-to-peer trading would be
different, which necessitates further investigation. Further, P2P
trading algorithms need to be simulated for large-scale realistic
power system model to observe the impact of computational
complexity on the conduct of trading in such a large system.
c) Benefit to the grid: Consumer-centricity of peer-to-peer
trading has been well established in recent literature. However,
the benefit of peer-to-peer energy trading to the distribution
grid also needs to be demonstrated. Further, the grid should
also have the provision to participate in P2P trading either
as a generator or service provider, if necessary. This will be
particularly important to pave the way for this new approach
to be approved as a part of the energy system.
d) Ancillary service to the grid: Peer-to-peer trading has
demonstrated potential to form coalitions between the pro-
sumsers of the network to achieve a reliable and cost-effective
supply of energy. Now, it would be an interesting extension to
investigate how such coalitions can help to provide ancillary
services to the grid such as with virtual power plants.
e) Multi-level storage management: With P2P trading, it is
expected that a community may have different types of stor-
age facilities, including small-scale batteries at the prosumers
premises, medium-scale community storage, and large-scale
grid storage. Coordination between these storage devices in
an economic way and developing suitable pricing mecha-
nisms to conduct inter-storage energy sharing would be a
very complicated problem. Therefore, innovative scheduling
and optimization techniques need to be developed.
f) Prioritizing stakeholders: Clearly, different stakehold-
ers would be interested in exploiting prosumers’ batteries
to deliver different services to their customers and maintain
network security. For example, generators may want to use
them for reducing production volatility, Distribution Network
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3197
Service Providers (DNSP) for demand constraint, and retailers
may want to discharge the batteries to combat energy imbal-
ances. Nevertheless, these actions could be conflicting with
one another. Hence, P2P trading schemes need to be designed
such that they do not affect participants’ independence and
benefits.
g) Injection limit and market mechanism: At present, a cap
is being set for each prosumer on the maximum amount of
energy its inverter can send to the grid. This limits prosumers
capacity to install larger capacity rooftop solar PV and earn
more revenue. With P2P trading, prosumers can actively nego-
tiate with one another on the amount of energy they can trade
with one another and the pricing. Therefore, the injection
limit needs to be flexible to extract the most benefits from
such decision making processes. This necessitates the devel-
opment of novel market mechanisms that will dynamically
change the injection limit based on the supply and demand
of energy within the network without impacting the network
detrimentally.
h) Unified model: At present, research are directed either
to the virtual layer or to the physical layer. However, for a
successful deployment of P2P trading within the network, it
is important that requirements of both layers be addressed.
Hence, there is a need for a unified model, which could cap-
ture this. This is particularly possible as blockchain based
information systems make all real-time system information
available to both prosumers and system operator. Thus, it could
be possible for the system operator to assist the participants to
take decisions in the virtual layer that do not contradict with
the constraints in the physical layer. Nevertheless, the extent to
which a system operator can influence prosumers’ behaviors
needs to be carefully articulated. Otherwise, the decentricity
of P2P trading could be compromised.
i) Enabling data accessibility with privacy: Of signifi-
cant importance to the performance of the P2P trading, both
intra-community and inter-community, is statistically useful,
and accurate, energy transaction and usage data being made
available across communities, for better prosumers decision
making. However, this accessible data needs to also provide
privacy to each prosumer. Thus provably-private transforma-
tions, of communities energy trading data, are required to
facilitate data accessibility and required sharing, while pro-
viding sufficient statistical accuracy for interrogation of the
data. This remains a key research challenge, as such deploy-
ment is highly dependent on the applied scenarios for the
P2P trading, and also on the desired level of utility from the
privacy-preserved data.
j) Inter & Intra-community trading: In P2P trading, a
prosumer should have enough flexibility to decide whether
it wants to trade with peers within its community (intra-
community) or with someone external (inter-community).
Market mechanisms for P2P trading should have policies and
technologies ready to accommodate such flexibility.
VII. CONCLUSION
In this review article, an overview of existing research in
peer-to-peer energy trading has been provided. As such, first,
the background of peer-to-peer trading in energy networks has
been discussed with specific emphasize on features of peer-
to-peer networks, market structure for peer-to-peer trading,
and opportunities and challenges. Second, a systematic clas-
sification of peer-to-peer energy trading has been proposed
based on the relevant challenges in both virtual and physical
layers that have been addressed by state-of-the-art research.
Third, core technical approaches that have been extensively
used in the literature have been identified and summarized.
In addition, an overview of the application of these identi-
fied approaches for peer-to-peer trading in virtual and physical
layers has been provided. Finally, this paper has discussed a
number of interesting topics for future research.
REFERENCES
[1] M. E. Peck and D. Wagman, “Energy trading for fun and profit buy
your neighbor’s rooftop solar power or sell your own-it’ll all be on a
blockchain,” IEEE Spectr., vol. 54, no. 10, pp. 56–61, Oct. 2017.
[2] J. Liang-Cheng, F. D. Rodrigues, and H. X. Lin, “Analysis of feed-
in tariff policies for solar photovoltaic in China 2011–2016,” Appl.
Energy, vol. 203, pp. 496–505, Oct. 2017.
[3] W. Tushar, T. K. Saha, C. Yuen, P. Liddell, R. Bean, and H. V. Poor,
“Peer-to-peer energy trading with sustainable user participation: A
game theoretic approach,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 62932–62943,
2018.
[4] W. Tushar et al., “Three-party energy management with distributed
energy resources in smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 62,
no. 4, pp. 2487–2498, Apr. 2015.
[5] Queensland Solar Bonus Report, Dept. Nat. Resources,
Mines Energy, Kolkata, India, Oct. 2018. [Online]. Available:
https://www.dnrm.qld.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0005/1379678/solar-
bonus-scheme.pdf
[6] W. Tushar et al., “Grid influenced peer-to-peer energy trad-
ing,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, early Access. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2019.2937981
[7] Z. Jing, M. Pipattanasomporn, and S. Rahman, “Blockchain-based
Negawatt trading platform: Conceptual architecture and case studies,”
in Proc. IEEE PES GTD Grand Int. Conf. Expo. Asia (GTD Asia),
Bangkok, Thailand, Mar. 2019, pp. 68–73.
[8] T. Morstyn, N. Farrell, S. J. Darby, and M. D. Mcculloch, “Using
peer-to-peer energy-trading platforms to incentivize prosumers to form
federated power plants,” Nat. Energy, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 94–101, 2018.
[9] W. Tushar et al., “A motivational game-theoretic approach for peer-
to-peer energy trading in the smart grid,” Appl. Energy, vol. 243,
pp. 10–20, Jun. 2019.
[10] C. Zhang, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, M. Cheng, and C. Long, “Peer-to-peer
energy trading in a microgrid,” Appl. Energy, vol. 220, pp. 1–12,
Jun. 2018.
[11] E. Mengelkamp, J. Gärttner, K. Rock, S. Kessler, L. Orsini, and
C. Weinhardt, “Designing microgrid energy markets—A case study:
The Brooklyn microgrid,” Appl. Energy, vol. 210, pp. 870–880,
Jan. 2018.
[12] M. Andoni et al., “Blockchain technology in the energy sector: A
systematic review of challenges and opportunities,” Renew. Sustain.
Energy Rev., vol. 100, pp. 143–174, Feb. 2019.
[13] W. Tushar et al., “Transforming energy networks via peer-to-peer
energy trading: The potential of game-theoretic approaches,” IEEE
Signal Process. Mag., vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 90–111, Jul. 2018.
[14] J. Guerrero, A. C. Chapman, and G. Verbič, “Decentralized P2P energy
trading under network constraints in a low-voltage network,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 5, pp. 5163–5173, Sep. 2019. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/TSG.2018.2878445
[15] T. Baroche, P. Pinson, R. L. G. Latimier, and H. B. Ahmed, “Exogenous
cost allocation in peer-to-peer electricity markets,” IEEE Trans. Power
Syst., vol. 34, no. 4, pp. 2553–2564, Jul. 2019.
[16] C. Zhang, J. Wu, C. Long, and M. Cheng, “Review of exist-
ing peer-to-peer energy trading projects,” Energy Procedia, vol. 105,
pp. 2563–2568, May 2017.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3198 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
[17] T. Sousa, T. Soares, P. Pinson, F. Moret, T. Baroche, and
E. Sorin, “Peer-to-peer and community-based markets: A compre-
hensive review,” Renew. Sustain. Energy Rev., vol. 104, pp. 367–378,
Apr. 2019.
[18] M. Khorasany, Y. Mishra, and G. Ledwich, “Market framework
for local energy trading: A review of potential designs and market
clearing approaches,” IET Gener. Transm. Distrib., vol. 12, no. 22,
pp. 5899–5908, Dec. 2018.
[19] J. Wu and N. K. Tran, “Application of blockchain technology in sus-
tainable energy systems: An overview,” Sustainability, vol. 10, no. 9,
pp. 1–22, Aug. 2018.
[20] M. Troncia, M. Galici, M. M. Mureddu, E. Ghiani, and F. Pilo,
“Distributed ledger technologies for peer-to-peer local markets
in distribution networks,” Energies, vol. 12, no. 17, pp. 1–19,
Aug. 2019.
[21] J. Abdella and K. Shuaib, “Peer to peer distributed energy trading in
smart grids: A survey,” Energies, vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 1–22, Jun. 2018.
[22] R. Schollmeier, “A definition of peer-to-peer networking for the clas-
sification of peer-to-peer architectures and applications,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Peer-to-Peer Comput., Linkoping, Sweden, Aug. 2001,
pp. 101–102.
[23] W. Hou, L. Guo, and Z. Ning, “Local electricity storage for blockchain-
based energy trading in industrial Internet of Things,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3610–3619, Jun. 2019.
[24] Z. Li, J. Kang, R. Yu, D. Ye, Q. Deng, and Y. Zhang, “Consortium
blockchain for secure energy trading in industrial Internet of
Things,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 3690–3700,
Aug. 2018.
[25] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang, and E. Hossain,
“Enabling localized peer-to-peer electricity trading among plug-in
hybrid electric vehicles using consortium blockchains,” IEEE Trans.
Ind. Informat., vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 3154–3164, Dec. 2017.
[26] O. Jogunola et al., “Comparative analysis of P2P architecture for energy
trading and sharing,” Energies, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 1–20, Dec. 2018.
[27] T. Morstyn, A. Teytelboym, and M. D. Mcculloch, “Bilateral contract
networks for peer-to-peer energy trading,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 2026–2035, Mar. 2019.
[28] E. Sorin, L. Bobo, and P. Pinson, “Consensus-based approach to peer-
to-peer electricity markets with product differentiation,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 994–1004, Mar. 2019.
[29] G. Hug, S. Kar, and C. Wu, “Consensus + innovations approach for
distributed multiagent coordination in a microgrid,” IEEE Trans. Smart
Grid, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 1893–1903, Jul. 2015.
[30] A. Paudel, K. Chaudhari, C. Long, and H. B. Gooi, “Peer-to-
peer energy trading in a prosumer-based community microgrid: A
game-theoretic model,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 66, no. 8,
pp. 6087–6097, Aug. 2019.
[31] P. Baez-Gonzalez, E. Rodriguez-Diaz, J. C. Vasquez, and
J. M. Guerrero, “Peer-to-peer energy market for community
microgrids [technology leaders],” IEEE Electrific. Mag., vol. 6,
no. 4, pp. 102–107, Dec. 2018.
[32] W. Tushar et al., “Energy storage sharing in smart grid: A modi-
fied auction-based approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 7, no. 3,
pp. 1462–1475, May 2016.
[33] F. Moret and P. Pinson, “Energy collectives: A community and fairness
based approach to future electricity markets,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst.,
vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 3994–4004, Sep. 2019.
[34] T. Morstyn and M. D. McCulloch, “Multi-class energy management
for peer-to-peer energy trading driven by prosumer preferences,” IEEE
Trans. Power Syst., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4005–4014, Sep. 2019. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2834472
[35] N. Liu et al., “Online energy sharing for nanogrid clusters: A Lyapunov
optimization approach,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 9, no. 5,
pp. 4624–4636, Sep. 2018.
[36] L. W. Park, S. Lee, and H. Chang, “A sustainable home energy
prosumer-chain methodology with energy tags over the blockchain,”
MDPI Sustainability, vol. 10, no. 3, pp. 1–18, Feb. 2018.
[37] F. Si, J. Wang, Y. Han, Q. Zhao, P. Han, and Y. Li, “Cost-efficient
multi-energy management with flexible complementarity strategy for
energy Internet,” Appl. Energy, vol. 231, pp. 803–815, Dec. 2018.
[38] R. Alvaro-Hermana, J. Fraile-Ardanuy, P. J. Zufiria, L. Knapen,
and D. Janssens, “Peer to peer energy trading with electric vehi-
cles,” IEEE Intell. Transp. Syst. Mag., vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 33–44,
Oct. 2016.
[39] A. Anees, T. Dillon, and Y.-P. P. Chen, “A novel decision strategy for a
bilateral energy contract,” Appl. Energy, vol. 253, pp. 1–13, Nov. 2019.
[40] F. Luo, Z. Y. Dong, G. Liang, J. Murata, and Z. Xu, “A dis-
tributed electricity trading system in active distribution networks
based on multi-agent coalition and blockchain,” IEEE Trans. Power
Syst., vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4097–4108, Sep. 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2876612
[41] W. El-Baz, P. Tzscheutschler, and U. Wagner, “Integration of energy
markets in microgrids: A double-sided auction with device-oriented
bidding strategies,” Appl. Energy, vol. 241, pp. 625–639, May 2019.
[42] C. Long, J. Wu, Y. Zhou, and N. Jenkins, “Peer-to-peer energy shar-
ing through a two-stage aggregated battery control in a community
microgrid,” Appl. Energy, vol. 226, pp. 261–276, Sep. 2018.
[43] Y. Wang, K. Lai, F. Chen, Z. Li, and C. Hu, “Shadow price based
co-ordination methods of microgrids and battery swapping stations,”
Appl. Energy, vol. 253, pp. 1–16, Nov. 2019.
[44] S. Nguyen, W. Peng, P. Sokolowski, D. Alahakoon, and X. Yu,
“Optimizing rooftop photovoltaic distributed generation with bat-
tery storage for peer-to-peer energy trading,” Appl. Energy, vol. 228,
pp. 2567–2580, Oct. 2018.
[45] N. K. Meena, J. Yang, and E. Zacharis, “Optimisation framework for
the design and operation of open-market urban and remote community
microgrids,” Appl. Energy, vol. 252, pp. 1–17, Oct. 2019.
[46] K. A. Melendez, V. Subramanian, T. K. Das, and C. Kwon,
“Empowering end-use consumers of electricity to aggregate for
demand-side participation,” Appl. Energy, vol. 248, pp. 372–382,
Aug. 2019.
[47] X. Yang, G. Wang, H. He, J. Lu, and Y. Zhang, “Automated
demand response framework in ELNs: Decentralized schedul-
ing and smart contract,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern.,
Syst., vol. 50, no. 1, pp. 58–72, Jan. 2020. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSMC.2019.2903485
[48] S. Wang, A. F. Taha, J. Wang, K. Kvaternik, and A. Hahn, “Energy
crowdsourcing and peer-to-peer energy trading in blockchain-enabled
smart grids,” IEEE Trans. Syst., Man, Cybern., Syst., vol. 49, no. 8,
pp. 1612–1623, Aug. 2019.
[49] Y. Li, W. Yang, P. He, C. Chen, and X. Wang, “Design and
management of a distributed hybrid energy system through smart
contract and blockchain,” Appl. Energy, vol. 248, pp. 390–405,
Aug. 2019.
[50] T. Chen and W. Su, “Indirect customer-to-customer energy trading
with reinforcement learning,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 4,
pp. 4338–4348, Jul. 2019.
[51] W. Liu, F. Wen, and D. Qi, “Intraday residential demand response
scheme based on peer-to-peer energy trading,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 1823–1835, Mar. 2020. [Online].
Available: https://doi.org/10.1109/TII.2019.2929498
[52] E. Barbour, D. Parra, Z. Awwad, and M. C. Gonzàlez, “Community
energy storage: A smart choice for the smart grid?” Appl. Energy,
vol. 212, pp. 489–497, Feb. 2018.
[53] H. Kirchhoff and K. Strunz, “Key drivers for successful development
of peer-to-peer microgrids for swarm electrification,” Appl. Energy,
vol. 244, pp. 46–62, Jun. 2019.
[54] M. Khorasany, Y. Mishra, and G. Ledwich, “A decentralised
bilateral energy trading system for peer-to-peer electricity mar-
kets,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., early access. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TIE.2019.2931229
[55] A. Lüth, J. M. Zepter, P. C. del Granado, and R. Egging,
“Local electricity market designs for peer-to-peer trading: The
role of battery flexibility,” Appl. Energy, vol. 229, pp. 1233–1243,
Nov. 2018.
[56] M. R. B. M. Saifuddin, T. Logenthiran, R. T. Naayagi, and W. L. Woo,
“A nano-biased energy management using reinforced learning multi-
agent on layered coalition model: Consumer sovereignty,” IEEE Access,
vol. 7, pp. 52542–52564, 2019.
[57] K. Chen, J. Lin, and Y. Song, “Trading strategy optimization for a
prosumer in continuous double auction-based peer-to-peer market: A
prediction-integration model,” Appl. Energy, vol. 242, pp. 1121–1133,
May 2019.
[58] W. Tushar, C. Yuen, D. B. Smith, and H. V. Poor, “Price discrimination
for energy trading in smart grid: A game theoretic approach,” IEEE
Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 1790–1801, Jul. 2017.
[59] M. T. Devine and P. Cuffe, “Blockchain electricity trading under
demurrage,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 2323–2325,
Mar. 2019.
[60] U. Cali and O. Çakir, “Energy policy instruments for distributed
ledger technology empowered peer-to-peer local energy markets,” IEEE
Access, vol. 7, pp. 82888–82900, 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
TUSHAR et al.: PEER-TO-PEER TRADING IN ELECTRICITY NETWORKS: OVERVIEW 3199
[61] F. Moret, T. Baroche, E. Sorin, and P. Pinson, “Negotiation algo-
rithms for peer-to-peer electricity markets: Computational properties,”
in Proc. Power Syst. Comput. Conf. (PSCC), Dublin, Ireland, Jun. 2018,
pp. 1–7.
[62] M. H. Y. Moghaddam and A. Leon-Garcia, “A fog-based Internet of
Energy architecture for transactive energy management systems,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 5, no. 2, pp. 1055–1069, Apr. 2018.
[63] K. O. O. Anoh, D. Bajovic, D. Vukobratovic, B. Adebisi, D. Jakovetic,
and M. Cosovic, “Distributed energy trading with communication con-
straints,” in Proc. IEEE PES Innov. Smart Grid Technol. Conf. Europe
(ISGT-Europe), Oct. 2018, pp. 1–6.
[64] S. Noor, W. Yang, M. Guo, K. H. Dam, and X. Wang, “Energy demand
side management within micro-grid networks enhanced by blockchain,”
Appl. Energy, vol. 228, pp. 1385–1398, Oct. 2018.
[65] M. Faizan, T. Brenner, F. Foerster, C. Wittwer, and B. Kock,
“Decentralized bottom-up energy trading using Ethereum as a plat-
form,” J. Energy Markets, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 1–30, Jul. 2019.
[66] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, “Security and privacy in decentralized
energy trading through multi-signatures, blockchain and anonymous
messaging streams,” IEEE Trans. Depend. Secure Comput., vol. 15,
no. 5, pp. 840–852, Sep. 2018.
[67] N. U. Hassan, C. Yuen, and D. Niyato, “Blockchain technologies for
smart energy systems: Fundamentals, challenges and solutions,” IEEE
Ind. Electron. Mag., early access.
[68] M. I. Azim, S. A. Pourmousavi, W. Tushar, and T. K. Saha, “Feasibility
study of financial P2P energy trading in a grid-tied power network,” in
Proc. IEEE PES Gen. Meeting, Atlanta, GA, USA, Aug. 2019, pp. 1–5.
[69] A. Navarro-Espinosa and L. F. Ochoa, “Probabilistic impact assessment
of low carbon technologies in LV distribution systems,” IEEE Trans.
Power Syst., vol. 31, no. 3, pp. 2192–2203, May 2016.
[70] H. Almasalma, S. Claeys, and G. Deconinck, “Peer-to-peer-based inte-
grated grid voltage support function for smart photovoltaic inverters,”
Appl. Energy, vol. 239, pp. 1037–1048, Apr. 2019.
[71] S. J. Williamson, J. Kitson, A. Griffo, and W. Macĉdo, “Universal
droop controller for DC–DC converter interfaces onto a modular
multi-tiered DC microgrid,” J. Eng., vol. 17, no. 17, pp. 3469–3473,
Jun. 2019.
[72] A. Nikolaidis, C. A. Charalambous, and P. Mancarella, “A graph-
based loss allocation framework for transactive energy markets in
unbalanced radial distribution networks,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst.,
vol. 34, no. 5, pp. 4109–4118, Sep. 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TPWRS.2018.2832164
[73] Y. Xu, H. Sun, and W. Gu, “A novel discounted min-consensus
algorithm for optimal electrical power trading in grid-connected
DC microgrids,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 66, no. 11,
pp. 8474–8484, Nov. 2019.
[74] H. Gu, R. Yan, and T. Saha, “Review of system strength and inertia
requirements for the national electricity market of Australia,” CSEE J.
Power Energy Syst., vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 295–305, Sep. 2019.
[75] N. Masood, R. Yan, and T. K. Saha, “Investigation of load frequency
relief from field measurements and its impact on contingency reserve
evaluation,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 567–577,
Jan. 2018.
[76] N.-A. Masood, R. Yan, and T. K. Saha, “A new tool to estimate
maximum wind power penetration level: In perspective of frequency
response adequacy,” Appl. Energy, vol. 154, pp. 209–220, Sep. 2015.
[77] L. Wang, F. Bai, R. Yan, and T. K. Saha, “Real-time coordinated volt-
age control of PV inverters and energy storage for weak networks
with high PV penetration,” IEEE Trans. Power Syst., vol. 33, no. 3,
pp. 3383–3395, May 2018.
[78] D. Wu et al., “Assessing impact of renewable energy integration on
system strength using site-dependent short circuit ratio,” IEEE Trans.
Sustain. Energy, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 1072–1080, Jul. 2018.
[79] A. Zhou, R. Yan, and T. K. Saha, “Capacity and control strat-
egy design of isolated micro-grid with high renewable penetra-
tion,” IEEE Trans. Sustain. Energy, early access. [Online]. Available:
https://doi.org/10.1109/TSTE.2019.2920274
[80] J. Zhang et al., “A bi-level program for the planning of an islanded
microgrid including CAEs,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl., vol. 52, no. 4,
pp. 2768–2777, Jul. 2016.
[81] W. Tushar, J. A. Zhang, D. B. Smith, H. V. Poor, and S. Thiébaux,
“Prioritizing consumers in smart grid: A game theoretic approach,”
IEEE Trans. Smart Grid, vol. 5, no. 3, pp. 1429–1438, May 2014.
[82] J. Wang, H. Zhong, C. Wu, E. Du, Q. Xia, and C. Kang, “Incentivizing
distributed energy resource aggregation in energy and capacity mar-
kets: An energy sharing scheme and mechanism design,” Appl. Energy,
vol. 252, pp. 1–13, Oct. 2019.
[83] B. A. Bhatti and R. Broadwater, “Energy trading in the distribu-
tion system using a non-model based game theoretic approach,” Appl.
Energy, vol. 253, pp. 1–15, Nov. 2019.
[84] W. Lee, L. Xiang, R. Schober, and V. W. S. Wong, “Direct electricity
trading in smart grid: A coalitional game analysis,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun., vol. 32, no. 7, pp. 1398–1411, Jul. 2014.
[85] X. Zhang, S. Zhu, J. He, B. Yang, and X. Guan, “Credit rating
based real-time energy trading in microgrids,” Appl. Energy, vol. 226,
pp. 985–996, Feb. 2019.
[86] L. Thomas, Y. Zhou, C. Long, J. Wu, and N. Jenkins, “A general
form of smart contract for decentralized energy systems management,”
Nat. Energy, vol. 4, no. 2, pp. 140–149, 2019.
[87] T. Başar and G. J. Olsder, Dynamic Noncooperative Game Theory.
New York, NY, USA: Academic, 1995.
[88] W. Saad, Z. Han, H. V. Poor, and T. Başar, “Game-theoretic methods
for the smart grid: An overview of microgrid systems, demand-side
management, and smart grid communications,” IEEE Signal Process.
Mag., vol. 29, no. 5, pp. 86–105, Sep. 2012.
[89] W. Tushar, W. Saad, H. V. Poor, and D. B. Smith, “Economics of
electric vehicle charging: A game theoretic approach,” IEEE Trans.
Smart Grid, vol. 3, no. 4, pp. 1767–1778, Dec. 2012.
[90] W. Saad, Z. Han, H. V. Poor, and T. Başar, “A noncooperative
game for double auction-based energy trading between PHEVs and
distribution grids,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Smart Grid Commun.
(SmartGridComm), Brussels, Belgium, Oct. 2011, pp. 267–272.
[91] P. Huang, A. Scheller-Wolf, and K. Sycara, “Design of a multi-unit
double auction e-market,” Comput. Intell., vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 596–617,
Nov. 2002.
[92] D. K. Gode and S. Sunder, “Allocative efficiency of markets with
zero-intelligence traders: Market as a partial substitute for individ-
ual rationality,” J. Political Economy, vol. 101, no. 1, pp. 119–137,
Feb. 1993.
[93] S. Boyd, N. Parikh, E. Chu, B. Peleato, and J. Eckstein, Distributed
Optimization and Statistical Learning via the Alternating Direction
Method of Multipliers. Hanover, MA, USA: Now, 2011.
[94] S. Nakamoto. (2008). Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System.
[Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[95] K. Christidis and M. Devetsikiotis, “Blockchains and smart contracts
for the Internet of Things,” IEEE Access, vol. 4, pp. 2292–2303, 2016.
[96] N. Szabo, “Smart contracts: Formalizing and securing relationships on
public networks,” First Monday, vol. 2, no. 9, Sep. 1997. [Online].
Available: https://ojphi.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/548/469
[97] HYPERLEDGER. (2018) Hyperledger—Open Cource
Blockchain. Accessed: Aug. 21, 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://www.hyperledger.org/
[98] D. Zhang, Z. Zhang, L. Chen, S. Li, Q. Huang, and Y. Liu, “Blockchain
technology hyperledger framework in the Internet of Energy,” in Proc.
Int. Conf. Renew. Energy Technol. (ICRET), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia,
Jan. 2018, pp. 1–8.
[99] (2015). Ethereum. Accessed: Aug. 21, 2019. [Online]. Available:
https://www.ethereum.org/
[100] T. Zhang, H. Pota, C.-C. Chu, and R. Gadh, “Real-time renewable
energy incentive system for electric vehicles using prioritization and
cryptocurrency,” Appl. Energy, vol. 226, pp. 582–594, Sep. 2018.
[101] Y. Zhou, J. Wu, and C. Long, “Evaluation of peer-to-peer energy shar-
ing mechanisms based on a multiagent simulation framework,” Appl.
Energy, vol. 222, pp. 993–1022, Jul. 2018.
Wayes Tushar (Senior Member, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. degree in electrical and electronic engineer-
ing from the Bangladesh University of Engineering
and Technology in 2007, and the Ph.D. degree in
engineering from the Australian National University
in 2013. He is currently working as an Advance
Queensland Research Fellow with the School of
Information Technology and Electrical Engineering,
University of Queensland. His research interests
include energy and storage management, renewable
energy, smart grid, design thinking, and game theory.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3200 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SMART GRID, VOL. 11, NO. 4, JULY 2020
Tapan Kumar Saha (Fellow, IEEE) received the
B.Sc. degree in electrical and electronic engineer-
ing from the Bangladesh University of Engineering
and Technology, Dhaka, in 1982, the M.Tech.
degree in electrical engineering from the Indian
Institute of Technology Delhi in 1985, and the
Ph.D. degree from the University of Queensland
(UQ), Brisbane, Australia, in 1994, where he is cur-
rently a Professor of electrical engineering with the
School of Information Technology and Electrical
Engineering. He is also the Director of Australasian
Transformer Innovation Centre and Leader of UQ Solar. His research interests
include condition monitoring of electrical assets, power systems, and renew-
able energy integration to the grid. He is a fellow and a Chartered Professional
Engineer of the Institution of Engineers, Australia.
Chau Yuen (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the B.Eng. and Ph.D. degrees from Nanyang
Technological University, Singapore, in 2000 and
2004, respectively. He was a Postdoctoral Fellow
with Lucent Technologies-Bell Labs, Murray Hill,
NJ, USA, in 2005. He was a Visiting Assistant
Professor with Hong Kong Polytechnic University
in 2008. From 2006 to 2010, he worked with I2R,
Singapore, as a Senior Research Engineer. He is
currently an Associate Professor with the Singapore
University of Technology and Design. In 2012, he
received the IEEE Asia–Pacific Outstanding Young Researcher Award. He is
an editor of the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMMUNICATIONS and the IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY.
David Smith (Member, IEEE) received the B.E.
degree in electrical engineering from the University
of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia,
in 1997, and the M.E. (research) and Ph.D.
degrees in telecommunications engineering from
the University of Technology, Sydney, in 2001
and 2004, respectively. Since 2004, he has been
with National Information and Communications
Technology Australia (incorporated into Data61
of CSIRO in 2016), and the Australian National
University (ANU), Canberra, ACT, Australia, where
he is currently a Principal Research Scientist with CSIRO Data61, and an
Adjunct Fellow with ANU. He has a variety of industry experience in electri-
cal and telecommunications engineering. He has published over 150 technical
refereed papers. His current research interests include privacy for networks,
wireless body area networks, game theory for distributed signal process-
ing, disaster tolerant networks, 5G networks, IoT, distributed optimization
for smart grid, and electric vehicles. He has made various contributions to
IEEE standardization activity in personal area networks. He was a recipient
of the four conference Best Paper Awards. He is an Area Editor of IET Smart
Grid and has served on the Technical Program Committees of several leading
international conferences in the fields of communications and networks.
H. Vincent Poor (Life Fellow, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree in EECS from Princeton University
in 1977.
From 1977 to 1990, he was on the faculty of the
University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign. Since
1990, he has been on the faculty at Princeton, where
he is the Michael Henry Strater University Professor
of Electrical Engineering. From 2006 to 2016, he
also served as the Dean of Princeton’s School of
Engineering and Applied Science. He has also held
visiting appointments at several other universities,
including most recently at Berkeley and Cambridge. His research interests
are in the areas of information theory, signal processing and machine learn-
ing, and their applications in wireless networks, energy systems, and related
fields. Among his publications in these areas is the forthcoming book Advance
Data Analytics for Power Systems (Cambridge University Press, 2020).
Dr. Poor is a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the
National Academy of Sciences, and is a foreign member of the Chinese
Academy of Sciences, the Royal Society, and other national and interna-
tional academies. Recent recognition of his work includes the 2017 IEEE
Alexander Graham Bell Medal, the 2019 ASEE Benjamin Garver Lamme
Award, a D.Sc. honoris causa from Syracuse University, awarded in 2017, and
a D.Eng. honoris causa from the University of Waterloo, awarded in 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 07:35:12 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles false
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails false
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo false
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /HelveticaBolditalic-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Impact
    /Kartika
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans
    /LucidaSans-Demi
    /LucidaSans-DemiItalic
    /LucidaSans-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /MVBoli
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Vrinda
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryITCbyBT-MediumItal
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 200
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Average
  /ColorImageResolution 300
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 200
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Average
  /GrayImageResolution 300
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 400
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <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>
    /ESP <FEFF005500740069006c0069006300650020006500730074006100200063006f006e0066006900670075007200610063006900f3006e0020007000610072006100200063007200650061007200200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f0073002000640065002000410064006f00620065002000500044004600200061006400650063007500610064006f007300200070006100720061002000760069007300750061006c0069007a00610063006900f3006e0020006500200069006d0070007200650073006900f3006e00200064006500200063006f006e006600690061006e007a006100200064006500200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f007300200063006f006d00650072006300690061006c00650073002e002000530065002000700075006500640065006e00200061006200720069007200200064006f00630075006d0065006e0074006f00730020005000440046002000630072006500610064006f007300200063006f006e0020004100630072006f006200610074002c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000200079002000760065007200730069006f006e0065007300200070006f00730074006500720069006f007200650073002e>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <FEFF004b00e40079007400e40020006e00e40069007400e4002000610073006500740075006b007300690061002c0020006b0075006e0020006c0075006f0074002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e007400740065006a0061002c0020006a006f0074006b006100200073006f0070006900760061007400200079007200690074007900730061007300690061006b00690072006a006f006a0065006e0020006c0075006f00740065007400740061007600610061006e0020006e00e400790074007400e4006d0069007300650065006e0020006a0061002000740075006c006f007300740061006d0069007300650065006e002e0020004c0075006f0064007500740020005000440046002d0064006f006b0075006d0065006e00740069007400200076006f0069006400610061006e0020006100760061007400610020004100630072006f0062006100740069006c006c00610020006a0061002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e0030003a006c006c00610020006a006100200075007500640065006d006d0069006c006c0061002e>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Recommended"  settings for PDF Specification 4.01)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice