Using Blockchain for Optimal and Transparent Resource Allocation
Using Blockchain for Optimal and Transparent Resource
Allocation
A Proposed Solution for Fund Allocation: Brief overview
Roxana, Voicu-Dorobantu*
The Bucharest University of
Economic Studies, Bucharest,
Romania
roxana.voicu@rei.ase.ro
Chibuzor, Udokwu
Blockchain Technology Group,
Tallinn University of Technology,
Tallinn, Estonia
cjobuzor@gmail.com
Bogdan, Bocse
DeepViss, Envisage.ai, Bucharest,
Romania
bogdan@envisage.ai
ABSTRACT
The paper presents, in brief, a proposed blockchain-based architec-
ture for optimal resource allocation, specifically financial resources,
in a bounded-setting, called game. The solution touches upon actors
involved and roles and rules of engagement, while setting the stage
for a more complex proposal for future study. The paper is a review,
set as a starting point for a more developed solution, which would
allow for financial resources peer-sharing in a bounded setting,
with automated functions.
CCS CONCEPTS
• Design; • Peer-to-peer architectures; • Enterprise applica-
tion integration;
KEYWORDS
blockchain, game theory, resource allocation, business process, fi-
nancial system
ACM Reference Format:
Roxana, Voicu-Dorobantu*, Chibuzor, Udokwu, and Bogdan, Bocse. 2021.
Using Blockchain for Optimal and Transparent Resource Allocation: A
Proposed Solution for Fund Allocation: Brief overview. In 2021 The 5th Inter-
national Conference on E-Commerce, E-Business and E-Government (ICEEG
’21), April 28–30, 2021, Rome, Italy. ACM, New York, NY, USA, 4 pages.
https://doi.org/10.1145/3466029.3466056
1 INTRODUCTION
Blockchain allows for multiple use-cases incorporating basic con-
cepts like asset digitization and consensus management. Starting
from the definition of consensus as “the degree of agreement among
point predictions aimed at the same target by different individuals
and "uncertainty" as the diffuseness of the corresponding probabil-
ity distributions” [23], and building by providing a blockchain layer
of technological solution for consensus management, the paper
proposes a solution for consensual allocation of resources within a
designated “game”. This game, seen as a closed environment, with
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
ICEEG ’21, April 28–30, 2021, Rome, Italy
© 2021 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 978-1-4503-8949-5/21/04. . . $15.00
https://doi.org/10.1145/3466029.3466056
set conditions, maps a collaborative, consensus-based society, in
which assets are digitized, transparency, traceability and immutabil-
ity of records are essential elements, there is information symmetry
among all parties, as well as an incentive for peer-to-peer collab-
oration for a “greater good” – a systemic value-added approach.
The efficiency is perceived not as a single driver, but as an add-on,
while the closed environment is behaving like a complex adaptive
system, driven via a set of governance conditions (automated smart
contracts). The initial research on this game may be found in the
Udokwu pre-print proposal of a tool for explaining the mechanism
of consensus management and the technical instrumentalization
of blockchain for it [20]. The potential use-cases for this optimal
allocation of resources are numerous, as long as the system relies on
clear rules, implementable in smart contracts, on consensus-based
decision making and systemic value-added, instead of individual
efficiency. In this respect, use cases may be (but are not limited to)
resource allocation within a limited boundary system (for instance,
grant allocation in a defined governance framework, supporting a
primary layer of algorithmic governance in a public-private setting),
database optimization, algorithmic discovery (i.e. discovery of new
algorithms). The second stage of the research is the translation into
practice of such a game: an example of a potential allocation of
funds at the governmental level / private funding level.
2 CONTEXT AND STATE OF THE ART
This type of fund allocation builds upon previous literature, such as
[12] who propose a smart contract allocating funds from the orga-
nization to its instances, [5] and [17] who talk about an accountable
just-in-time network resource allocation based on smart contracts,
[15] introducing the need for risk allocation in private-public part-
nerships, and the thesis of [22] introducing blockchain’s link to a
distributed securities depository. Of particular importance is the
seminal work of [9] about building games on Ethereum. Also rele-
vant is [18] introducing a knowledge transfer system with digital
assets. Similar research is done by [14] who suggest a blockchain-
based solution for government fund tracking using Hyperledger.
The fund allocation game proposed in this article stems from a need
for automation and transparency in funding projects. It may be ap-
plicable at the governmental level, when allocating budget funds or
working with distributing European funds at the national level (in
case of EUMember States), in private-public partnerships (when the
state joins private actors in bringing financing for specific issues)
or in private funding (particularly for non-governmental organiza-
tions, associations and foundations). The increased transparency is
35
https://doi.org/10.1145/3466029.3466056
https://doi.org/10.1145/3466029.3466056
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1145%2F3466029.3466056&domain=pdf&date_stamp=2021-07-27
ICEEG ’21, April 28–30, 2021, Rome, Italy Roxana Voicu-Dorobantu et al.
a fundamental characteristic (as well as a competitive advantage)
of using blockchain and smart contracts, which, in turn, allows for
decreased corruption and discretionary fund allocation, particularly
at the governmental level [4]. Current funding follows a three-stage
process, as per Figure 1 (1) A request for funding is issued – for
instance in an application – usually with a deadline, but there are
rolling-based funding mechanisms as well; (2) An evaluation of the
funding request is made by the funding entity which leads to three
possible types of answers: positive (in which case funding is allo-
cated according to the application), altered positive (in which case
funding is allocated but with alterations from the application) and
negative (in which case funding is not allocated); (3) The implemen-
tation of the project is rolled-out and financing may come: Fully at
the initialization of the project – not customary; A percentage at the
initialization of the project and then in instalments provisioned by
the fulfilment of stages/requirements/requests/thresholds in project
implementation. These thresholds are set at the beginning of the
project, agreed upon by all parties, and that require validation of
intermediary (and then final) project results.; Fully at the end of
the project, provided the project requirements are met – not cus-
tomary. The most common method is the second, with provisioned
instalments, based on verification of intermediary project results.
This method brings into discussion the need for automation, as
the verification of results may take place objectively (usually in
an inter-organizational context, as per [10], in a formal - smart
contract setting.
The validation of project results shall have to be done by a criti-
cal mass of participants (that number of validators to be set at the
initiation of the contract) in the network for the next-stage funding
to be released. Exceptionally, the validation may be fully automated
if the project impact allows, for instance, the project may refer
to providing scholarships to research students, with the impact
result being a certain number of published articles. The process
of internet searching for published articles by a specified author
within a set time frame may be automated, and no further valida-
tion needed, other than the results of the search. However, for more
complex project requirements, the concepts of decentralized agents
usually referred to as blockchain Oracles can automatically gather
such real-world data (weather, exchange rates etc.) in a transparent
and trusted manner and provide such input into the blockchain
smart contract. When describing a blockchain application (DApp),
it is always necessary to capture all aspects of the functions (both
functions that are performed on-chain and off-chain), and iden-
tify actors (human and software agents, including oracles). The
projects by [6] and [13] already demonstrated the applicability of
these Oracles with multiple cases. They may be software-based,
hardware-based or human-based, computation, inbound/outbound,
contract-specific or consensus-based [3]. The Oracles, per se, are
not part of the blockchain, they are off-chain external data sources,
interfacing the blockchain with the world. Their main role is the col-
lection of data for the smart contract, but there is a significant level
of uncertainty related to the provision of inaccurate data (either cor-
rupt, malicious, incomplete or simply faulty) [1], [8], [11]. Rather,
these Oracles, are services which are accessible to the Actor-Roles
on the blockchain. It should also be noted that an Oracle which does
not have "independently embodied and independently registered"
variants (functional replica), we are faced with the moral hazard
of having a single point of failure of market trust (SPoF of Market
Trust). For demonstrating the use of automated payment when
specific project conditions have been achieved, an example of such
an automated payment release is provided by [7], who propose a
smart contract-based solution for autonomous administration of
construction progress payments. Also, the conceptual design of a
blockchain-based collaborative construction project management
platform (CoPM), proposed by [19] and [16], clearly captures the
concepts of automated payment for building projects based on well-
defined milestones. Regardless of the format of the project results,
the solution stands. Unlike the previously mentioned work of [14],
our solution, working with specific smart contracts, may be used
by private funding entities in permissioned blockchains such as
Hyperledger, as well as in public blockchains such as Ethereum
network.
3 PROPOSED SOLUTION
As already established in the first part of this article, developing a
blockchain system for optimal and autonomous resource allocation
for public-funded projects involve the use of both human and auto-
mated software agents in performing different tasks in the project
management process. A system that consists of several human and
non-human actors is referred to as socio-technical systems (STS) [2].
A STS that involves actors and software actors residing in different
organizational pools performing different functions for the achieve-
ment of a common objective of a given process is a good example
of inter-organizational collaboration (IOC) systems. The research
conducted by [21] developed an approach for designing and devel-
oping such complex blockchain-based IOC systems. The approach
referred to as the decentralized agent-oriented modelling (DAOM)
framework provides a well-structured and systematic guideline for
building complex blockchain systems involving several parties from
different organizations. Therefore, we apply the principles of the
DAOM framework in describing various aspects of the proposed
blockchain system for optimal and automated resource allocation
in the management of public-funded projects. The main aspects
of the blockchain system are outlined by the following what, who
and how questions. (a) What functions are performed in the pro-
posed blockchain system for automated resource allocation? (b)
Who perform(s) what specific functions? (c) How are the functions
performed? The first question outlines the goals of the proposed
system and how they are derived from the main objective. The
second question outlines specific human and software actors that
perform a given function for the accomplishment of the associ-
ated goal. The last question explains how a given goal/function is
achieved.
Main functions in the system: To enable automated resource
allocation and transparent monitoring of public-funded projects,
the following is proposed as the top-level functions of the proposed
system, initiate new-project, submit application, assess applications,
and monitor project. The function initiate new-project allows gov-
ernment funding agencies to launch a new (research) project and
define the success criteria for the projects. The submit application
allows entities from different organizations to submit their appli-
cations and have a prospect to be selected as the executor of the
project. The function assess applications allows the funding entities
36
Using Blockchain for Optimal and Transparent Resource Allocation ICEEG ’21, April 28–30, 2021, Rome, Italy
Figure 1: Process flow of funding a project, with added functions and actors as per the proposed solution
to examine submitted applications and select the winning applica-
tion. The last functionmonitor application allows the funding entity
to assess the progress of the projects and allocate funds when the
defined success criteria have been achieved.
Actors and Software agents that perform the functions:
The following are identified as the actors in the proposed system,
project manager, research entities and auditor agent. The project man-
ager represents the government funding entities that initiate new
projects, assess submitted applications and allocate funds when
specific success criteria have been achieved. The research entities
are institutions and researchers that submit funding applications.
The auditor agent is a software agent that verifies (audits) the in-
formation contained in submitted applications and also checks the
completion of the project. The roles of human actors such as the
project manager and research entities are quite clear since they only
perform manual activities, the same as the functions performed in
the traditional systems for public project management. However,
the function by the auditor software agent is highly automated, in-
volving data gathering and verification checks. The data-gathering
part of the software agent can be implemented using a decentralized
agent referred to as blockchain oracles. These oracles provide the
possibility for a transparent gathering of real-world data without
depending on a trusted/ centralized authority for data provision.
The verification checks perform by the software agent to audit the
project completions can be implemented with a smart-contract.
The conditions for the project success can be coded into a smart-
contract. With input from blockchain oracles, an automated deci-
sion regarding the status of the project completion can easily be
made without or partially depending on a human actor (such as the
project manager).
4 CONCLUSIONS
The paper provides an overview of the context in which a game
(bounded setting) of resource allocation may exist, with the pro-
posed initial solution (with actors and rules of engagement) pro-
vided for a financial resource allocation system. The smart contract
/ blockchain-based solution is presented here as a starting point,
its complex landscape, incorporating AI and machine-learning for
validation of project results, under blockchain oracles, being the
subject of future research by the team.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This article is based on research from the Erasmus+ Strategic Part-
nerships Project - 2018-1-RO01-KA203-049510 "Blockchain for En-
trepreneurs - a non-traditional Industry 4.0 curriculum for Higher
Education".
REFERENCES
[1] Al-Breiki, H., Rehman, M. H. U., Salah, K., & Svetinovic, D. (2020). Trustworthy
blockchain oracles: review, comparison, and open research challenges. IEEE
Access, 8, 85675-85685.
[2] Appelbaum, S. H. (1997). Socio-technical systems theory: an intervention strategy
for organizational development. Management decision.
[3] Beniiche, A. (2020). A study of blockchain oracles. arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.07140.
[4] de Souza, R. C., Luciano, E. M., & Wiedenhöft, G. C. (2018, May). The uses of the
Blockchain Smart Contracts to reduce the levels of corruption: Some preliminary
thoughts. In Proceedings of the 19th Annual International Conference on Digital
Government Research: Governance in the Data Age (pp. 1-2).
[5] Faisal, T., Di Francesco Maesa, D., Sastry, N., & Mangiante, S. (2020, September).
AJIT: Accountable Just-in-Time Network Resource Allocation with Smart Con-
tracts. In Proceedings of the ACM MobiArch 2020 The 15th Workshop on Mobility
in the Evolving Internet Architecture (pp. 48-53).
[6] George, W., & Lesaege, C. (2020). A smart contract oracle for approximating real-
world, real number values. In International Conference on Blockchain Economics,
Security and Protocols (Tokenomics 2019). Schloss Dagstuhl-Leibniz-Zentrum für
Informatik.
[7] Hamledari, H., & Fischer, M. (2020). Construction Payment Automation Using
Blockchain-Enabled Smart Contracts and Reality Capture Technologies. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2010.15232.
[8] Heiss, J., Eberhardt, J., & Tai, S. (2019, July). From oracles to trustworthy data on-
chaining systems. In 2019 IEEE International Conference on Blockchain (Blockchain)
37
arXiv:2004.07140
arXiv:2010.15232
ICEEG ’21, April 28–30, 2021, Rome, Italy Roxana Voicu-Dorobantu et al.
(pp. 496-503). IEEE.
[9] Iyer, K. (2018). Building Games with Ethereum Smart Contracts. Apress.
[10] Kim, H., & Laskowski, M. (2017, July). A perspective on blockchain smart con-
tracts: Reducing uncertainty and complexity in value exchange. In 2017 26th
International Conference on Computer Communication and Networks (ICCCN) (pp.
1-6). IEEE.
[11] Kochovski, P., Gec, S., Stankovski, V., Bajec, M., & Drobintsev, P. D. (2019). Trust
management in a blockchain based fog computing platform with trustless smart
oracles. Future Generation Computer Systems, 101, 747-759.
[12] Kovalenko, I., Davydenko, Y., Shved, A., & Boiko, A. (2019, September). Efficient
Funds Allocation System Based on Fuzzy Logic and Smart Contracts. In 2019 IEEE
14th International Conference on Computer Sciences and Information Technologies
(CSIT) (Vol. 3, pp. 214-217). IEEE.
[13] Liu, X., Chen, R., Chen, Y. W., & Yuan, S. M. (2018, November). Off-chain data
fetching architecture for ethereum smart contract. In 2018 International Confer-
ence on Cloud Computing, Big Data and Blockchain (ICCBB) (pp. 1-4). IEEE.
[14] Mohite, A., & Acharya, A. (2018, December). Blockchain for government fund
tracking using Hyperledger. In 2018 International Conference on Computational
Techniques, Electronics and Mechanical Systems (CTEMS) (pp. 231-234). IEEE.
[15] Nel, D. (2020). Allocation of Risk In Public Private Partnerships In Information
And Communications Technology. International Journal Of Ebusiness And Egov-
ernment Studies, 12(1), 17-32.
[16] Norta, A.. Wenna, C.. Udokwu, C. (September 2020). Designing a Collabora-
tive Construction-Project Platform on Blockchain Technology for Transparency,
Traceability and Information Symmetry, DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.17356.64644.
[17] Shahab, S., & Allam, Z. (2020). Reducing transaction costs of tradable permit
schemes using Blockchain smart contracts. Growth and Change, 51(1), 302-308.
[18] Suciu M.C., Năsulea C., Năsulea D. (2020) Knowledge Decentralization in the
Age of Blockchain: Developing a Knowledge-Transfer System Using Digital
Assets. In: Matos F., Vairinhos V., Salavisa I., Edvinsson L., Massaro M. (eds)
Knowledge, People, and Digital Transformation. Contributions to Management
Science. Springer, Cham. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-40390-4_17
[19] Udokwu C., Wenna C., and Norta, A. (2021, in press), Designing a Collabora-
tive Construction-Project Platform on Blockchain Technology for Transparency,
Traceability and Information Symmetry. ASSE Conference. ACM 2021
[20] Udokwu, C. (July 2020). Development Of A Blockchain-Based Survival Game For
Blockchain Education V0.2, DOI: 10.13140/RG.2.2.14479.82083
[21] Udokwu, C. and Norta, A. (2021, in press) Deriving and Formalizing Require-
ments of Decentralized Applications for Inter-Organizational Collaborations on
Blockchain. AJSE, Springer Nature.
[22] Wall, E., & Malm, G. (2016). Using blockchain technology and smart contracts to
create a distributed securities depository.
[23] Zarnowitz, V., & Lambros, L. A. (1987). Consensus and uncertainty in economic
prediction. Journal of Political economy, 95(3), 591-621.
38
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-40390-4_17
	Abstract
	1 INTRODUCTION
	2 CONTEXT AND STATE OF THE ART
	3 PROPOSED SOLUTION
	4 CONCLUSIONS
	Acknowledgments
	References