Game Mechanism Design of Smart Contract for Thermal Power Plants Participating in Wind Power Heating
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
Game Mechanism Design of Smart Contract for Thermal Power Plants 
Participating in Wind Power Heating 
 
 
Xigao Wu1     Bin Duan2, Ying Zhong2, Yinxin Yan2, Yunke Xu2 
 
1 College of Information Engineering, Xiangtan University, Xiangtan, China  
E-mail: xigaowu@163.com 
2 Laboratory of Intelligent Computing & Information Processing of Ministry of Education, Xiangtan, China 
 
Abstract–For the north of China, the wind power clean 
heating is of great significance that increasing the ability to 
consume wind power in areas with abundant wind energy 
resources, alleviating the difficulties of wind power 
integration during the trough period of power load in winter 
season, promoting the utilization of clean energy in cities and 
towns, and reducing environmental pollution caused by 
inefficient combustion of fossil fuels. In this paper, in the 
thermal power plant using electric boilers to participate in 
wind power clean heating transactions, considering the 
decentralization which is the similar point between 
blockchain technology and energy internet, a weakly 
centralized power trading center scheme based on blockchain 
technology is proposed to realize wind power consumption 
transaction, and the entire transaction process is analyzed. At 
the same time, this paper proposes a side-payment 
mechanism based on sequential games in transaction game 
which constructs a three-level nested game wind power 
consumption transaction model, and analyzes how to use 
game theory as a theoretical tool to improve the transaction 
efficiency. Finally, according to the case analysis, the 
existence of Nash equilibrium in the game mechanism 
proposed in this paper is proved, the mechanism is proved to 
be effective, and the influence of each factor in the 
transaction is analyzed. 
 
Keywords–Wind power consumption, blockchain technology, 
smart contract, game theory 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
 
In recent years, with the scale of wind power integration 
has increased year by year, the phenomenon that wind 
power abandoning the wind is becoming more and more 
serious, especially in northeast, north and northwest China. 
For this problem, as in [1], the use of wind power clean 
heating can improve the capacity to absorb wind power in 
areas with abundant wind energy resources in northern 
China, and alleviate the difficulty of wind turbine 
operating with network during the winter heating period 
with a low power load. Therefore, for the traditional 
thermal power plant, it is an inevitable trend and 
requirement to take an active part in the clean heating 
project of wind power.  
 
Considering the similarity between the blockchain 
technology and the idea of energy Internet in the 
decentralization, this paper proposes the use of a weak 
centralization of the power generation share trading center 
based on blockchain technology to settle transactions, and 
analyzes the entire transaction process. 
 
The thermal power plant is equipped with large electric 
boiler to make the thermal power plant participate in the 
wind power clean heating. This method has strong 
practical feasibility and is suitable for the large-scale 
popularization and operation [2,3]. However, it only 
considers the overall economics of the transaction, does 
not consider the respective interests of the participants, 
and does not systematically analyze the various stages of 
the transaction, unable to guide the transaction to achieve 
maximum efficiency, and even lead to transaction failure 
[4]. On the basic method proposed in [2], this paper uses 
the game theory as the theoretical guidance and 
mathematical basis of the transaction, and proposes a 
three-layer nested game mechanism. Its advantage lies in 
the initiative of the participants, so that the benefits of the 
scheme are reasonably allocated and the transaction 
efficiency is improved. 
 
II. BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY AND GAME THEORY 
 
2.1. Blockchain and Smart Contract 
Blockchain is a distributed electronic database (account 
book) that can accommodate any information (such as 
records, events, transactions) and set rules for updating 
this information [5]. The special data structure 
organization form of blockchain makes blockchain 
technology have four main features: decentralization, 
transparency, automation of contract execution, 
traceability. Among them, contract execution automation 
refers to a smart contract that can be set by a blockchain to 
write a series of software codes, in a smart contract, the 
obligations of each party in the contract and the conditions 
for the execution of the contract are determined. The 
blockchain system will automatically judge the contract 
execution conditions. When all the conditions are satisfied, 
the blockchain system will automatically enforce the 
contract terms, without artificial promotion and 
supervision by the third party, which makes transaction 
execution very efficient.  
 
2.2. Basic Concepts of Game Theory 
Game theory is a theory that studies the strategic choice of 
rational decision-making individuals in mutual interaction. 
A complete game should have four basic elements: the 
participants of the game, the set of participant behavior, 
the payment function, and the equilibrium. 
 
III. SMART CONTRACT APPLICATION IN WIND POWER 
CONSUMPTION TRANSACTION 
 
According to the similarity of decentralization between the 
idea of blockchain technology and energy internet, this 
paper proposes a weakly centralized power trading center 
scheme based on blockchain technology to realize the 
whole wind power consumption transaction. The scheme 
uses Ethernet to build a public chain environment, and all 
transactions are written into smart contracts in 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
programmable languages [6]. This will not only improve 
the efficiency of transaction execution, but also reduce 
transaction costs because there is no need for strong third-
party supervision. 
 
Weak centralization means that the game process of power 
trading and the management and recording of transaction 
information are completed by power trading participants 
(thermal power plants and wind power plants). Security 
check can also use distributed algorithms to allow each 
node in the network to perform on its own under 
decentralized conditions. The power trading center only 
performs blocking management on transactions. 
Compared with all transaction data held by the trading 
center under the traditional management mode, the weak 
centralization model does not require knowledge of 
specific transaction information, and user privacy is better 
protected [7]. 
 
The transaction process is shown in Fig. 1. 
 
A bilateral game 
to reach a deal
Safety check
Transaction information is recorded in the 
form of smart contracts, spread to the 
entire network through the P2P network, 
packaged into blocks by nodes, and 
consensus is reached.
Blocking 
management
Blockchain record 
transaction information
When the trading time arrives, the 
smart contract automatically completes 
the value transfer based on the power 
data and contract content
Smart meter collects power 
data and records it on the 
blockchain
Fail
Pass
 
Fig. 1: Flowchart of transaction 
 
Considering that the security check of power transactions 
requires all the transaction information for a period of time, 
it can be assumed that one trading cycle is 20 minutes, that 
is, a set of transactions is reached every 20 minutes. In 
power trading, both thermal power plants and wind power 
plants solve the problem of trust between the two parties 
by setting a trading time to trigger a smart contract. 
 
Each user in the blockchain has a unified blockchain client 
that can record information and communicate with other 
nodes, and will also be associated with the user's smart 
meter and automatically record its power data on the 
blockchain. 
 
First, thermal power plants and wind power plants reach a 
transaction through bilateral games. Second, the 
transaction information (including the address of the 
transaction parties, the transaction power, the transaction 
price, the transaction time, and the amount of the default) 
is recorded in the form of a smart contract and broadcasted 
to each node of the entire network for temporary storage. 
Subsequently, all nodes formed consensus through the 
communication. Third, distributed security checks are 
performed on temporary transactions by market 
participants, so that all transactions are subject to network 
constraints. Fourth, if the security check is passed, the 
transaction information will be recorded on the blockchain. 
Else the blocking management will be executed. If the 
power trading center take minimum transaction adjustment 
and power flow as the objective function to adjust the 
transaction, and the transaction information can be directly 
recorded on the blockchain after the adjustment. Fifth, 
throughout the process, smart meters are used to track and 
record the power generation information of thermal power 
plants and wind power plants, and record the data on the 
blockchain. Sixth, when the scheduled transaction clearing 
time arrives, the smart contract will automatically 
complete the fund transfer according to the prior 
agreements (based on actual power generation and power 
usage data of thermal and wind power plants). 
 
IV. GAME MODEL CONSTRUCTION 
 
Wind power heating transactions involving thermal power 
plants and wind power plants are expressed in the form of 
thermal power plants reducing the scale of power 
generation to free up the share of on-grid electricity. Wind 
power plants purchase these shares to make the use of 
abandoned wind power, which essentially uses abandoned 
wind power to replace a part of thermal motor output 
operated by coal. The trading mechanism proposed in this 
paper starts from the enthusiasm of the participants, 
aiming at maximizing the abandonment of wind power 
and taking into account the fairness and stable of the 
transaction. 
 
4.1. Original Trading Game Analysis 
It is assumed that both participants (thermal power plants 
and wind power plants) in the wind power consumption 
transaction (the most fundamental purpose) are rational, 
and the purpose is to maximize their own interests in the 
transaction, with a fixed time as a trading cycle, both 
parties make a decision on whether to trade before the start 
of the trading cycle. The size of the transaction is limited 
by the capacity of the electric boiler (essentially 
determining how much wind energy can be dissipated), 
and the distribution of trading income depends on the 
transaction price (the transaction price refers to the price 
of electricity consumption paid by the wind power plant to 
the thermal power plant). At this point, the thermal power 
plant can make a decision on the scale of the transaction, 
and the wind power plant as the buyer in the transaction 
uses the transaction price as the decision in the game, 
forming a non-cooperative game with complete 
information. 
 
The game relationship is described by simple case analysis 
in game theory. The game income matrix is shown in 
Table 1, and the value of the matrix is the simplified 
comparison number of participants' transaction income. 
Under the premise of national economy, it can be seen 
from the game theory that the lower transaction electricity 
price is the dominant strategy of the wind power plant, and 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
considering the input cost of electric boiler, the capacity of 
smaller electric boilers is a rational choice for thermal 
power plants, At this time, the Nash equilibrium is the 
smaller electric boiler capacity and the lower transaction 
price, and the game at this time is inefficient. 
 
Table 1: Basic game theory payoff matrix 
Wind Power Plant 
 
Thermal Power Plant 
Lower 
transaction 
electricity price 
Higher 
transaction 
electricity price 
Smaller electric boiler 
capacity 1,3 2,2 
Large electric boiler 
capacity -3,6 3,3 
 
Therefore, in order to avoid the zero-self-interest caused 
by the cancellation of the transaction, the wind power 
plant will consider the revenue of the thermal power plant 
and actively increase the transaction price. At this point, 
the thermal power plant will choose to expand the 
transaction scale to seek higher returns because of the 
change strategy of the wind power plant. This forms a new 
two-level nested game, the game matrix is shown in Table 
2. At this time, the Nash equilibrium (larger capacity, 
higher electricity price) in the game example makes the 
whole transaction more efficient. 
 
Table 2: Based on the nested game payoff matrix 
Wind power plant 
 
 
Thermal power plant 
Participate in trading 
Exit the 
transaction 
Lower 
electricity 
price 
Higher 
electricity 
price 
Participate 
in trading 
Smaller 
capacity 1,3 2,2 -2,0 
Large 
capacity -3,6 3,3 -7,0 
Exit the transaction 0,0 0,0 0,0 
 
However, for real trading, the pure chasing efficiency is 
not enough. Some features such as the large amount of 
upfront cost investment, high price fluctuation, and a 
certain degree of dependence on nature and policy require 
transaction mechanism to ensure fairness and stability 
while ensuring transaction efficiency. 
 
4.2. Design of Side Payment Mechanism Based on 
Sequential Game 
In order to give consideration to the goal of fairness and 
stability, a new mechanism is needed. Therefore, this 
paper proposes to use the side payment mechanism based 
on sequential game to adjust the initial cost burden and 
realize the double promotion of fairness and efficiency. 
 
In order to participate in the transaction, the thermal power 
plant needs to bear the purchase and usage cost of the 
electric boiler alone, and the wind power plant has no 
obvious cost burden in the whole transaction, which is the 
embodiment of the cost and unfairness in the transaction. 
But wind power plants need to trade to ensure their own 
profits, which will enable the wind power plant to help the 
thermal power plant reduce the initial cost burden. 
 
The specific steps of the side payment mechanism based 
on sequential game are as follows: The unit construction 
cost of the electric boiler is EBu , and the purchase cost 
ratio of the wind power plant is , then each unit of the 
thermal power plant purchases EBC  units of electric boiler, 
the wind power plant pays a side-by-side payment of 
,EB P EBC S  to the thermal power plant to reduce the initial 
cost pressure of the thermal power plant. In the subsequent 
pN  cycle transactions, the wind power plant reduces the 
transaction cost of , /EB P EB pC S N  per cycle to recover its 
funding to the electric boiler of the thermal power plant. 
,P EBS  is the amount of subsidy for the unit electric boiler 
wind power plant is expressed as follows: 
 
                                  ,P EB EBS u                               (1) 
 
At the same time, the smart contract is introduced as the 
third-party authority of the side payment to ensure the 
normal operation of the mechanism, solve the trust 
problem of both sides of the transaction  and reduce the 
transaction risk. 
 
4.3. Three-layer Nested Game Wind Power Consumption 
Trading Mechanism 
 
Wind 
power 
plant
Thermal 
power 
plant
Exit the 
transaction
            
Repaying the loan
Payment transaction price
Decrease transaction price
Less investment scale
Prevent thermal power 
plant from exiting trading
Expand investment scale
Electric 
boiler
Smart contract
        
Cost is negative
Seeking positive returns
Guarantee transactions run Guarantee transactions run
Loan subsidy purchase
 
 Fig. 2: Schematic diagram of 3-level game trading mechanism 
 
The structure of the entire trading mechanism consists of 
three layers of loops, and the game structure diagram is 
shown in Fig. 2. The first layer of the cycle is the original 
transaction, which is indicated by the dotted line. In order 
to maximize their interests, both sides of the game make 
the game result ineffective. The second layer of circulation 
is represented by a discontinuous line, after the game of 
both parties is considered, the possibility of exiting the 
transaction is increased, the wind power plant must take 
into account the income of the thermal power plant, which 
makes the dominant decision changed, thus making the 
game get a more efficient solution. The third layer of 
circulation is represented by the solid line. It is based on 
the better game solution of the second layer of circulation, 
and adds the side payment mode, which alleviates the 
pressure of the initial stage of the thermal power plant 
transaction, increases the stability of the whole transaction, 
and guide the maximization of the entire transaction scale 
and long-term trading. 
 
4.4. Calculation of the Participant's Payment Function 
4.4.1. Participant's income function 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
There are two participants in the wind power consumption 
transaction based on electric boiler: the thermal power 
plant and the wind power plant. 
 
As in [2,8], among the abandoned wind power WP  that the 
grid consumes, part of it is the reduced electric power 
CHPP (caused by the reduction of the output of the thermal 
power unit), and the other part is the thermoelectric power 
EBP  consumed by the electric boiler. The relationship 
between the electric boiler utilization hour EBh  and the 
acceptance of the abandoned wind power WW  is:. 
 
                        CHP CHP EB EB
W
CHP
C h
W                       (2) 
 
In the formula, CHP  and CHP  are respectively the heat 
utilization rate of the thermoelectric unit and the electric 
heating ratio of the thermoelectric unit. 
 
Assume that the duration of use is n  cycles, and the 
maintenance cost per cycle is the same. The total cost of 
electric boilers in service life is: 
 
                              1EB EB EB EBF C u n                       (3) 
 
The thermal power unit consumes coal to produce electric 
heating, under the given thermoelectric generating unit 
CHP  and CHP , the coal consumption required by the unit 
production unit is: 
 
                              
3600 1
29308
CHP
CHP
CHP
                       (4) 
 
The approximate relationship between the WW  of the unit 
and the coal consumption EBS  saved by the unit is: 
 
                  
0.1228 1EB CHP
CHP CHP W
CHP EB CHP
W W           (5) 
 
Considering that electricity prices, coal prices, and 
stochastic risks change during different periods of the 
transaction, the returns of the participants in each cycle are 
calculated first, and then the income function of the 
participants in the entire transaction is accumulated. 
Assume that the on-grid tariff approved by thermal power 
companies in the i-th cycle is i
Hq , the renewable energy 
subsidy price of wind power in the i-th cycle is i
Bq , in the 
transaction, the tariff price of the agreement paid by the 
wind power plant to the thermal power plant is Jq , the 
unit wind power gain of the wind power plant in the 
transaction is i i
H B Jq q q , so the wind power plant's 
income function can be expressed as: 
n n
i i i i i
F F W H B J PS S W q q q S  
                   ,
,
p
iP EBi i j
P EB P EB EBj i N
p
S
S C S C
N
               (6) 
 
where: i
FS  is the gain of the wind power plant in the i-th 
cycle, i
WW  is the accepted wind power of the i-th cycle, 
and i
FS  is the income function value of the i-th cycle of 
the wind power plant, i
PS  is the side-paying fee for the 
electric boiler purchased by the thermal power plant in the 
i-th wind power plant, and i
EBC  is the electric boiler 
capacity added in the i-th cycle. 
 
Assume that the unit coal price in the i-th cycle is i
Mq , 
i
CHPW is the reduction of coal-fired generation in the 
thermal power plant during the i-th cycle. Then the profit 
of the i-th cycle obtained by saving coal is i i
M EBq S , and the 
gain of the on-grid thermal power lost by reducing the 
output is i i
H CHPq W . Introducing (6) can express the 
thermal power plant income function: 
 
    1
1
1
n i
R Ri
n i i i i i i i
W J M EB H CHP EB EB EB Pi
S S
W q q S q W C u i S
    (7) 
 
where, i
RS  is the benefit of the thermal power plant in the 
i-th cycle, iN  is the repayment of the subsidy paid by the 
thermal power plant to the wind power plant to purchase 
the electric boiler during the period. 
 
4.4.2. Payment function 
Participants' enthusiasm depends not only on the benefits 
of the transaction, but also on factors such as cost burdens 
and risks. The participant's payment function should 
consider these factors comprehensively. The larger the 
value of the payment function for a decision, the higher 
the appeal of the decision to the participant, and the more 
likely the participant is to choose this decision in the 
transaction. The basic expression is: 
 
                             
1
n i i
n n UTi
u S F                            (8) 
 
where: i
nS  is the single-cycle return of the nth participant, 
i
UTF  is the payment cost of the i-th cycle caused by the 
uncertainty factor of the participant n in the transaction, 
including the cost of capital and the transaction risk cost. 
In this game mechanism, we define the expression as: 
 
                                i i i
UT Z FF F F                               (9) 
 
                                 
2i i i
Z n nF S S                              (10) 
 
where: i
ZF , i
FF  are the capital cost, unit variable cost and 
transaction risk cost in the i-th cycle respectively. i
FF  
indicates the participant's risk assessment cost for the 
transaction elements. Participants can not trade long-term 
transactions, or the judgment of large fluctuations in the 
on-grid price will affect the transaction risk cost i
FF . 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
,  are the weights of the participants for the two 
uncertain costs respectively. 
 
From (8) we can write the payment function of the wind 
power plant in the game: 
 
 , ,1
n i i i i i i
F W H B J P Z F F Fi
u W q q q S F F  (11) 
 
In the formula, i
FF  is the uncertain cost of the wind power 
plant in the i-th cycle. From (8) we can get the payment 
function of the thermal power plant in the game: 
 
, ,1
n i i i i i i i
R W J M EB H CHP EB P Z R F Ri
u W q q S q W F S F F
                                                                                         (12) 
 
where i
RF  is the uncertain cost of the thermal power plant 
during the i-th cycle. 
 
V. CASE ANALYSIS 
 
Suppose 1 month is the unit period, as in [9], the 
construction unit price of electric boiler is 1 million 
yuan/MW, the maintenance cost ratio per cycle is 0.1%, 
the use cycle is 100 cycles, and the heat production 
efficiency is 99%. Because the thermal power unit is in the 
back pressure or the minimum condensing condition at the 
time of wind abandoning, it's fuel utilization efficiency is 
higher, CHP  can be taken as 0.7. Since different types of 
units have different thermoelectric ratios, the span of CHP  
is 1-5. The price of coal is 700 yuan/t, which is equivalent 
to the standard coal price of 1000 yuan/t. The price of 
thermal power is 400 yuan/MWh, and the wind power 
subsidy price is 200 yuan/MWh. The proportion of the 
purchase cost of electric boilers undertaken by wind power 
plants is , and the number of funding cycles for return 
pN  is 20. The utilization time of electric boilers is 50 
hours per cycle. 
 
5.1. Proof of the Existence for Nash Equilibrium 
Whether the judgment mechanism design is effective 
depends on whether the mechanism can give a satisfactory 
Nash equilibrium solution. First, it needs to prove that the 
mechanism can guarantee the Nash equilibrium in the 
game process of the transaction. The strategy space of the 
nested game of wind power consumption transaction 
described in this paper is a non-empty compact convex set 
in Euclidean space. It only needs to verify that the 
corresponding payment function of the participant is a 
continuous quasi-concave function, then, as in [8], it is 
proved that there is pure strategy Nash equilibrium pointin 
the game. 
 
5.1.1. Non-concave function of the payment function of 
wind power plants 
The cost weight coefficients of the uncertainty factor  
and  are 0.0001 and 0 respectively, according to (11), 
we draw the change curve of the payment function Fu  to 
Jq , as shown in Fig. 3(a). The graph shows that Fu  is a 
continuous quasi concave function of Jq , and further 
simulation shows that no matter how the other values 
change, the continuous pseudo concavity of Fu  will not be 
changed. 
 
 
a. Fu  and Jq  
 
 
b. Ru  and Jq  
 
Fig. 3: Variation curves of u  with Jq  
 
5.1.2. Non-concave function of the payment function of the 
thermal power plant 
Assuming that the cost weight coefficients ,  of the 
uncertainty factor are 0.0001 and 0 respectively. 
According to the (12), the variation curve of the payment 
function Ru  for EBC  is obtained, and the graph is as 
shown in Fig. 4, the value of EBC  is a finite discrete 
choice. Further simulations show that no matter how the 
other values change, the finite discreteness of Ru  and EBC  
will not be changed. In summary, the pure strategy Nash 
equilibrium point must exist in the non-cooperative game 
hybrid power system planning model. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4: Variation curves of u  with EBC  
 
5.2. The Relationship between Participant Payment 
Function and Decision Making 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
The relationship between the participants' payment 
function (transaction enthusiasm) and the transaction price 
Jq  is shown in Fig. 3. The enthusiasm of the wind power 
plant is approximately inverse to Jq , and the enthusiasm 
of the thermal power plant is approximately proportional 
to the Jq . 
 
The relationship between the payment function of the 
participant and the capacity EBC  of the electric boiler, as 
shown in Fig. 4, the graph shows the relationship between 
the payment function value of thermal power plants and 
wind power plants and EBC  when the transaction lasts for 
50 cycles and 100 cycles respectively. In the case of 100 
cycles, with the growth of EBC , the transaction enthusiasm 
gradually increased. When the transaction continued for 
50 cycles, the trading enthusiasm of the thermal power 
plant increased first and then decreased with the increase 
of EBC , and the enthusiasm of the wind power plant 
gradually stopped growing. According to the analysis of 
the game theory mechanism, the transaction price must be 
within a certain range to ensure that both parties have 
active participation in the transaction. Small-scale electric 
boiler capacity has lower returns, but both have positive 
enthusiasm, while the larger one is the coexistence of risk 
and income, when the stability of the transaction cannot be 
guaranteed, the smaller transaction size will be more stable, 
but the larger transaction scale has higher participation 
enthusiasm. In order to ensure the long-term transaction, 
the participants will seek supervision of reliable third-
party (introduce a decentralized smart contract), and sign a 
long-term transaction agreement, that is, entering the third 
layer of the game mechanism. 
 
5.3. Curve Analysis  of the Payment Function 
Fig. 5 and Fig. 6 show the payment function value of the 
wind power plant and thermal power plant in 100 cycles 
after the three different side payment coefficient 
transactions started, at 50EBC MW and 0.045Jq  
yuan/MWh. It can be seen that as the trading duration 
increases, the value of the payment function also increases 
from negative to positive, which is because the two sides 
of the trader have higher long-term positive returns under 
the nested game trading mechanism, making the 
participants willing to bear a large amount of capital 
investment and trading risk at the beginning of the 
transaction to continue to participate in the transaction. 
 
At the same time, different side payment factors 
significantly affect the trading curve. As the coefficient 
increases, the early cost burden of the wind power plant 
will increase, and the thermal power plant will have fewer 
burdens on purchasing the electric boiler. When the side 
payment coefficient 0.6 , the minimum payment value 
at the initial stage of the thermal power plant transaction is 
only 34% of the minimum payment under no-payment, 
that is, the peak value of thermal power plant cost load 
drops by one-third. At the same time, the maximum value 
increases by 81%, the time from negative to positive has 
accelerated by 26 cycles. 
 
 
Fig. 5: Variation curves of Fu  with iT  
 
 
Fig. 6: Variation curves of Ru  with iT  
 
The side-payment mechanism greatly enhances the initial 
enthusiasm of thermal power plants, so that thermal power 
plants can purchase more electric boilers under the same 
bearing capacity, At the same time, it will also increase the 
early cost pressure of the wind power plant, but as long as 
it does not exceed the limit of the wind power plant, long-
term high-yield transactions will encourage wind power 
plant to continue trading, so that the overall transaction 
will proceed normally. 
 
VI. CONCLUSION 
 
In the transaction based on thermal power plant 
participation in wind power heating of electric boilers, this 
paper proposes a weakly centralized power trading center 
scheme based on blockchain technology, which can solve 
the security problem of transaction information and the 
trust problem of both parties in the wind power 
consumption transaction, reduce the transaction cost and 
improve the efficiency and security of power transaction. 
At the same time, a side-payment mechanism based on 
sequential game is proposed in the bilateral game, and a 
wind power consumption trading mechanism nested by a 
three-layer game is constructed. The game mechanism is 
based on the specific trading method that the thermal 
power plant buys electric boilers and participates in wind 
power heating, which can achieve double improvement of 
transaction fairness and efficiency, effectively ensure the 
enthusiasm of both sides of wind power consumption 
transactions, increase the consumption of waste wind 
power, and have obvious environmental benefits. This 
type of game mechanism based on participant enthusiasm 
is not only applicable to the specific environment 
described in this paper, but also can be applied to various 
trading environments of the carbon emission trading 
system with minor modifications. 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 
IET International Conference on Advances in Power System Control, Operation and Management (APSCOM 2018) 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Notice of the National Energy Administration on Doing a 
Good Job in Wind Power Grid Integration in 2016[R]. 
National Energy Administration, Beijing, 2016. 
[2] LYU Quan, JIANG Hao, CHEN Tianyou, WANG Haixia, 
LYU Yang, and LI Weidong, “Wind power accommodation 
by combined heat and power plant with electric boiler and 
its national economic evaluation”[J]. Automation of Electric 
Power Systems, 2014, 38(1):6-12. 
[3] LONG Hongyu, MA Jianwei, WU Kai, et al. “Energy 
conservation dispatch of power grid with mass cogeneration 
and wind turbines”[J]. Electric Power Automation 
Equipment, 2011, 31(11):18-22. 
[4] Yunpeng Wang, Walid Saad, Zhu Han, H. Vincent Poor, 
and Tamer Başar, “A game-theoretic approach to energy 
trading in the smart grid”[J]. IEEE Transactions on Smart 
Grid, 2014, 5(3):1439-1450. 
[5] Condos J, Sorrell WH, and Donegan SL, “Blockchain 
technology: opportunities and risks.” Technical report, State 
of Vermont, USA; 2016. 
[6] SHI Quansheng, LIU Kun, and WEN Mi, “Interprovincial 
generation rights trading model based on blockchain 
technology”[J]. Electric Power Construction, 2017, 38(9): 
15-23. 
[7] TAI Xue, SUN Hongbin, and GUO Qinglai, “Electricity 
transactions and congestion management based on 
blockchain in energy internet”[J]. Power System 
Technology, 2016, 40(12): 3630-3638. 
[8] MEI Shengwei, WANG Yingying, and LIU Feng, “A game 
theory based planning model and analysis for hybrid power 
system with wind generators-photovoltaic panels-storage 
batteries”[J]. Automation of Electric Power Systems, 2011, 
35(20):13-19. 
[9] JIANG Chunhai, LI Shu, and TIAN Lulu, “Impact of 
fluctuation of electricity on-grid price on power generation 
capacity of chinese thermal power industry”[J]. Finance & 
Trade Economics, 2012, 49(5):457-459. 
 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:49:43 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.