A Bayesian Game Based Vehicle-to-Vehicle Electricity Trading Scheme for Blockchain-Enabled Internet of Vehicles
6856 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
A Bayesian Game Based Vehicle-to-Vehicle
Electricity Trading Scheme for Blockchain-Enabled
Internet of Vehicles
Shengnan Xia, Feilong Lin , Member, IEEE, Zhongyu Chen, Member, IEEE, Changbing Tang, Member, IEEE,
Yongjin Ma, and Xinghuo Yu , Fellow, IEEE
Abstract—With ever increasing people’s awareness of low car-
bon and environmental protection, electric vehicles are gradually
gaining wide popularity. However, the driving endurance of the
electric vehicle is the biggest shortage that hinders the fully accep-
tance of this new vehicle technology. To deal with this shortage,
this paper proposed a vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) electricity trading
scheme based on Bayesian game pricing in blockchain-enabled In-
ternet of vehicles (BIoV). Specifically, the Bayesian game is adopted
for pricing in the distributed BIoV with incomplete information
sharing. The optimal pricing under the linear strategic equilibrium
has been obtained which maximizes the utilities of both sides of
electricity transaction. The transaction volume is determined from
the formulated convex problem that maximizes the social welfare.
Then, the pricing game is implemented by the dedicated smart
contract. Blockchain guarantees its trustworthiness, security, and
reliability. Finally, the experimental results show that referring
to the benchmark of static game with complete information, the
proposed Bayesian game with incomplete information can achieve
approximate satisfaction of users. The degree of approximation
can reach to 98% when the pricing ranges of buyers and sellers are
close. Moreover, the proposed scheme has great advantages over the
static game with complete information in terms of communication
overhead and timeliness in the decentralized IoVs.
Index Terms—Blockchain, Internet of vehicles, vehicle-to-
vehicle, electricity trading, Bayesian game.
I. INTRODUCTION
THE emergence of electric vehicles in the new energy
market has great potential to ease the fossil fuel crisis
and reduce toxic gas emissions, which has attracted worldwide
attention. Electric vehicles have many advantages such as en-
ergy saving, emission reduction and environmental protection.
Manuscript received October 10, 2019; revised March 29, 2020; accepted
April 21, 2020. Date of publication April 27, 2020; date of current version
July 16, 2020. This work was supported in part by NSF of China under
Grant 61877055 and in part by the NSF of Zhejiang Province of under Grant
LY18F030013. The review of this article was coordinated by Prof. A. L. Grieco.
(Corresponding author: Feilong Lin.)
Shengnan Xia, Feilong Lin, Zhongyu Chen, and Yongjin Ma are with the
College of Mathematics and Computer Science, Zhejiang Normal University,
Jinhua 321004, China (e-mail: 437038054@qq.com; bruce_lin@zjnu.edu.cn;
czy@zjnu.edu.cn; myj@zjnu.edu.cn).
Changbing Tang is with the College of Physics and Electronic Informa-
tion Engineering, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua 321004, China (e-mail:
tangcb@zjnu.cn).
Xinghuo Yu is with the School of Engineering, RMIT University, Melbourne,
VIC 3001, Australia (e-mail: x.yu@rmit.edu.au).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TVT.2020.2990443
However, the comprehensive development of electric vehicles
still faces many challenges and bottlenecks. On the one hand,
the driving endurance of electric vehicles is not strong enough
to meet vehicle users’ expectation, which brings certain in-
convenience to long-distance travel. On the other hand, with
the popularization of electric vehicles, the peak-valley gap of
power grid load may become more obvious. In recent years,
vehicle-to-vehicle (V2V) electricity trading as a new and flexible
charging mode has been proposed and widely studied. Based on
the self-advantages of electric vehicles, it is expected to enhance
the cooperation between the vehicles to prolong the driving
endurance and also effectively avoid the power grid overload
problem.
There are many entities involved in the Internet of vehicles
(IoV), and the transactions are scattered distributed. Therefore,
it is a challenging problem to ensure the information security of
users. The emergence of new technologies such as the Internet
of things, artificial intelligence and blockchain have made great
impact on the related fields of information technology [1]. In par-
ticular, blockchain is a decentralized transaction and data man-
agement technology which gained popularity since 2008 when
S. Nakamoto posted the white paper - a blockchain application
of a digital currency [2]. Blockchain technology makes use of the
existing achievements of modern cryptography, including hash,
digital signature, Merkle tree data structure, etc. The advantages
of cryptography provide privacy protection and security protec-
tion for blockchain system. Besides, the consensus protocol is
used to enable all nodes in the whole system to exchange data
freely and safely in the untrusted environment. Further, the smart
contract uses programmable algorithm to replace the traditional
arbitration and contract execution. Smart contract is executed
autonomously when the conditions programed in its source code
are met. Within the blockchain environment, the smart contract
can be executed in a trustworthy, transparent, and reliable way.
In this paper, a V2V electricity trading scheme in blockchain-
enabled Internet of vehicles (BIoV) is proposed. Blockchain
technology helps to guarantee the trustworthiness, security, and
reliability of electricity transactions. Firstly, with blockchain,
the public/private key pair and digital signature are adopted to
solve the concern of the security of vehicle users. Secondly, the
pricing mechanism is written into the smart contract for electric-
ity transaction, which not only reduces the dependence on the
0018-9545 © 2020 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0003-0981-3721
https://orcid.org/0000-0001-8093-9787
mailto:437038054@qq.com
mailto:bruce_lin@zjnu.edu.cn
mailto:czy@zjnu.edu.cn
mailto:myj@zjnu.edu.cn
mailto:tangcb@zjnu.cn
mailto:x.yu@rmit.edu.au
XIA et al.: BAYESIAN GAME BASED VEHICLE-TO-VEHICLE ELECTRICITY TRADING SCHEME 6857
middleman to the greatest extent, but also realizes the fairness of
the transaction. Finally, all transactions can be permanently and
accurately recorded on the blockchain ledger, which enables the
traceability of transactions.
The contributions of this paper are summarized as follows:
1) A V2V electricity trading scheme based on blockchain is
proposed. All transactions can be recorded permanently
and accurately on the blockchain ledger, which provides a
secure trading platform for electric vehicle users. Simul-
taneously, smart contracts act as pricing agencies. When
the transaction occurs, the trading mechanism designed in
the smart contract is executed.
2) It is not trivial to acquire the full information in the decen-
tralized IoV network timely, due to that communication
and computation load grow exponentially with network
size. The Bayesian game is adopted for pricing in the
distributed BIoV with incomplete information sharing.
The optimal pricing under the linear strategic equilibrium
has been obtained which maximizes the utilities of both
sides of electricity transaction, which stimulates the elec-
tric vehicle users to participate in the electricity trading.
The transaction volume is determined from the formulated
convex problem that maximizes the social welfare.
3) Finally, the electricity transaction between vehicle users
based on blockchain is simulated, and the electricity
trading mechanism of V2V is analyzed from different
perspectives. Referring to the electricity trading based
on the static game with complete information, when the
electricity value range of buyers and sellers is close, the
user satisfaction with incomplete information is close to
98% approximately. Furthermore, compared with a single
fixed price, the pricing mechanism based on linear strategy
proposed by this paper can make vehicle users get more
benefits.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section II introduces the related work. The blockchain-based
system model will be described in detail in Section III. Sec-
tion IV presents and introduces V2V electricity trading scheme
in detail. Section V verifies the validity and feasibility of the pro-
posed trading scheme through simulation experiment. Finally,
Section VI concludes this paper.
II. RELATED WORK
Internet of Things (IoT) is characterized by heterogeneous
technologies, which concur to the provisioning of innovative ser-
vices in various application domains [10]. With the development
of new technologies, vehicles will no longer be isolated units,
but become active network nodes [11]. Specially, the new era of
IoT is driving the evolution of vehicular networks into IoV. With
the rapid development of computation and communication tech-
nologies, IoV has possessed huge research value and attracted a
large number of researchers. Kaiwartya et al. in [12] presented
a comprehensive framework of IoV with emphasis on layered
architecture, protocol stack, network model, challenges, and
future aspects. Yang et al. in [13] proposed an abstract network
model of the IoV, and presented different applications based
on certain currently existing technologies. Zhang et al. in [14]
proposed some measures to further promote the development
of IoV. Singh et al. in [15] recommended a evaluation of lately
proposed IoV architectures and deliberate their salient features.
Ahmed et al. in [16] proposed a novel trust framework that
studies all aspects of the trust in connected vehicle (CV) to CV
communications. However, with the expansion of the vehicular
network, the security of electricity trading is also a challenging
issue.
In recent years, the emergence of blockchain technology has
become a unique, most disruptive, and trending technology.
Simultaneously, a lot of applications based on blockchain tech-
nology have emerged. Tanwar et al. in [17] presented detailed in-
formation on blockchian technology (BT) and machine learning
(MT), along with their usages in smart applications and proposed
an ML-BT based architecture. Bhattacharya et al. in [18] pro-
posed a framework called as Blockchain-Based Deep Learning
as-a-Service (BinDaaS), which integrates blockchain and deep-
learning techniques for sharing the electronic health records
among multiple healthcare users and operates. Mistry et al. in
[19] presented an in-depth survey of state-of-the-art proposals
having 5G-enabled IoT as a backbone for blockchain-based
industrial automation for the applications such as Smart city,
Smart Home, Healthcare 4.0, Smart Agriculture, Autonomous
vehicles and Supply chain management.
The blockchain widely known as one of the disruptive tech-
nologies has emerged in recent years, has the potential to revolu-
tionize intelligent transport system. Yuan et al. in [20] conducted
a preliminary study of blockchain-based intelligent transporta-
tion systems. It is the first attempt in the literature to design the
model and research framework, and discuss the potential appli-
cations of blockchain technology in transportation research. Lun
et al. in [21] proposed an effective announcement network called
CreditCoin, a novel privacy-preserving incentive announcement
network based on blockchain via an efficient anonymous ve-
hicular announcement aggregation protocol. Jiang et al. in [22]
investigated how the blockchain technology could be extended to
the application of vehicular network. Liu et al. in [23] proposed
a novel deep reinforcement learning (DRL) based performance
optimization framework for blockchain-enabled IoV. Chen et al.
in [24] proposed a consortium blockchain-based data trading
framework to provide a secure and truthful way for data trading
in IoV. Li et al. in [25] exploited the consortium blockchain tech-
nology to propose a secure energy trading system named energy
blockchain. Wang et al. in [26] introduced a novel permissioned
energy blockchain system to implement secure energy delivery
services for electric vehicles. Kang et al. in [27] proposed
an enhanced DPoS consensus scheme with two-stage security
solution. Aitzhan et al. in [28] implemented a proof-of-concept
for decentralized energy trading system using blockchain tech-
nology. Huang et al. in [29] proposed a decentralized security
model based on lightning network and smart contract.
To accommodate a large number of electric vehicles on the
grid, it is necessary to coordinate their charging. Alvaro et al.
in [30] presented a peer-to-peer (P2P) energy trading system
between electric vehicles, which can be used to reduce the
impact of peak power consumption on the power grid. Lin et al.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6858 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
TABLE I
COMPARISON OF THE EXISTING PAPERS
in [31] created a mixed-integer linear programming model for
a single user to reduce energy waste. Tedeschi et al. in [32]
envisaged the possibility to implement bartering functionalities
through blockchain and smart contracts. A contract needs to
be signed between the two platforms, which will be sent as a
multi-signature transaction and stored in the blockchain. In our
V2V electricity trading scheme, smart contracts act as pricing
agencies. When the transaction occurs, the trading mechanism
designed in the smart contract is executed. Zou et al. in [7]
adopted a distributed approach to coordinate the charging re-
quirements of electric vehicles and ensure the compatibility of
incentives. Chao et al. in [8] proposed an adaptive blockchain-
based electric vehicle participation scheme. The objectives are
to minimize the power fluctuation level in the grid network and
overall charging cost for energy vehicle users. Kang et al. in [9]
proposed a local P2P electricity trading model for locally buying
and selling electricity among plug-in hybrid electric vehicles
in smart grids. Wu et al. in [4] proposed the corresponding
algorithm to solve the optimal transaction problem, and found
the optimal transaction price effectively, as well as the optimal
energy scheduling for each consumer and seller. Asfia et al. in
[33] proposed a novel electric vehicles participation charging
scheme for a decentralized blockchain using smart contracts to
maximize utility for each individual.
To clarify the main difference between other papers and this
paper, a comprehensive comparison has been shown in Table I.
For V2V electricity trading schemes, existing researches are
mostly based on modeling analysis of complete information.
Each participant has accurate knowledge of the characteristics,
strategic space and payment function of all other participants.
However, it is all entities are not trivial to acquire the full
information in the decentralized IoV network timely, due to
TABLE II
SYMBOL DEFINITION
that communication and computation load grow exponentially
with network size. Therefore, the Bayesian game based V2V
electricity trading scheme is proposed in the distributed BIoV
with incomplete information sharing.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XIA et al.: BAYESIAN GAME BASED VEHICLE-TO-VEHICLE ELECTRICITY TRADING SCHEME 6859
Fig. 1. Architectural description of electricity trading in BIoV.
III. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
Fig. 1 gives the schematic illustration of the electricity trading
in BIoV. Two entities in the BIoV are concerned, i.e., electric
vehicles and roadside units (RSUs). Electric vehicles, as mo-
bile electricity storage carriers, are equipped with a “charge-
discharge” two-way system. Specifically, there are two roles for
vehicles, i.e., electricity buyer and electricity seller. One vehicle
that needs to buy electricity from others is called electricity
buyer. When one vehicle has enough electricity for its own
use and a certain volume of surplus electricity, it can choose to
be an electricity seller and trade electricity with buyers. RSUs
coordinate charging and discharging between electric vehicles.
With the blockchain technology, electric vehicles can trade the
electricity in a decentralized but trustful way. Simultaneously,
the smart contract, as the virtual agency, writes the Bayesian-
game-based pricing mechanism. When a transaction occurs, the
system will execute the deployed smart contract to obtain the
optimal trading scheme.
A. System Initialization
Each electric vehicle or RSU in BIoV becomes legitimate
node after registration with the certificate authority (CA) by
binding their identities in the real world, e.g., the license plate
of each electric vehicle user. Assume that there are Q entity
nodes in the system, each legitimate node q ∈ {1, 2, ..., Q} in
the blockchain gets its public/private key pair (PKq , SKq).
Here, the public key PKq can be seen as the pseudonym of
node q and can be known by all the nodes in the blockchain,
while the private key SKq should be secretly kept by the node
itself. Blockchain technology uses asymmetric cryptography to
encrypt data, the personal information and transaction data of
transaction users are securely protected. Specifically, the public
key is used to encrypt data. Data encrypted with the public
key can only be decrypted using the private key. After CA
signs with its private key SKCA, node q obtains its digital
certificate DCq , which can prove the authenticity of the user’s
identity. Each electric vehicle user has an account Aq , which
is given as Aq = (PKq, SKq, DCq, Eq, Bq), where Eq is the
total available electricity volume that node q possesses, Bq is
the account balance of node q. When an electric vehicle user
sells electricity as an electricity seller, Eq will decrease and Bq
will increase in the account of the electricity seller. When an
electric vehicle user requests to buy electricity as an electricity
buyer, Eq will increase and Bq will decrease in the account of
the electricity buyer. Smart meters built into each node calculate
and record the volume of electricity traded in real time, and
electricity buyers pay electricity sellers based on smart meter
records.
B. Electricity Trading in BIoV
1) Electricity Trading Process: There are three roles in the
BIoV we studied, i.e., electricity sellers, electricity buyers and
RSUs as auctioneers. More details about operation steps of the
electricity trading scheme are given as follows.
Step 1: As shown in Fig. 1, node q generate an electric-
ity requestReq = {roleq||ElecMsgq||Tstamp}, where roleq ∈
{−1, 1} represents the role of electric vehicles in electricity
trading, if roleq = −1, it means that the electric vehicle need
to purchase electricity. Otherwise, roleq = 1 means that it has
surplus electricity could sell to other electric vehicles. Here,
roleq = −1. ElecMsgq contains the electricity demand infor-
mation of electric vehicle user, which will be explained in detail
in Section IV. Tstamp is the time stamp of the request message
generation. Then the electric vehicle user signs Req with its
private key SKq and sends the request message ReqMsgq =
{SignPKq
(Req)||DCq} to the near RSU.
Step 2: When receiving electricity purchase request
ReqMsgq from vehicle user, RSU checks the validity of the
digital certificate by using CA’s public keyPKCA. Firstly, check
whether the certificate is out-of-date or not. Secondly, the public
key PKq can be obtained to verify the identity of the request
sender. Finally, RSU gets the message contents by decrypting
the Req with its private key.
Step 3: If the validation is successful, as shown in
Fig. 1, RSU will broadcast the request message Msg =
{ReqElecq||Tstamp||Tlimit} to nearby electric vehicles, where
ReqElecq contains electricity demand information which will
be explained in detail in Section IV. Furthermore, in order to
improve the efficiency of electricity transactions, Tlimit denotes
the time that RSU wait for the response of other electric vehicles,
which limited the waiting time for a response.
Step 4: The nearby electric vehicle users received the broad-
cast message from the nearby RSU, as shown in Fig. 1,
similar to the RSU authentication request message, the ve-
hicle user verifies the message that RSU broadcast, and de-
cides whether to sell its electricity, and generates a reply
Reply = {roleq′ ,q′ �=q||SupplyMsgq′ ||Tstamp}. Here role
′
q =
1, SupplyMsgq′ contains the electricity supply information,
which will be explained in detail in Section IV. Finally, the elec-
tric vehicles who decide to sell electricity will send a message
ReqMsgq′ = {SignPK
q
′ (Reply)||DCq′ } to the RSU.
Step 5: When received the response of the nearby electric
vehicle, similar to the authentication request message, RSU
receives the message contents by decrypting the Reply. Si-
multaneously, the RSU will check the current time t satisfies
t ≤ Tstamp + Tlimit, if not satisfies, the reply of electric vehicle
will be discarded.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6860 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
When the RSU receives and validates the information submit-
ted by the electricity buyers and the electricity sellers, it matches
the transaction and obtains the optimal transaction scheme by
triggering the pricing mechanism we designed in the smart
contract. Electric vehicle users will conduct electricity trading
according to the transaction results.
2) Building Blocks in BIoV: RSUs collect all local trans-
action records during a certain period, and then encrypt and
digitally sign these records to guarantee the authenticity and
accuracy of transactions. As shown in Fig. 1, the transaction
records are structured into blocks. For traceability and ver-
ification, blocks are arranged in time-stamp order, and each
block contains a cryptographic hash to the prior blocks in the
blockchain.
3) Carrying Out Consensus Process: In this work, the Proof-
of-Authority (PoA) [34] is chosen as the consensus mechanism.
Unlike traditional Proof-of-Work (PoW), PoA does not require
a lot of computation. With PoA, a preset set of signers in
the system take turns generating blocks. Even if a malicious
node is added to the signer list, it can only attack one of the
block signatures each height. Simultaneously, the nodes in the
authorization group can also vote to add new nodes or remove
malicious nodes. Specifically, signer initiates a proposal through
the API interface, which is broadcast to other nodes through
the coinbase and nonce fields of the reuse block header. All
authorized signers vote “join” for the new signer. When the
affirmative vote exceeds 50% of the total number of authorized
signers, the signer is allowed to join. Similarly, if an old signer
needs to be kicked out, all authorized signers will vote “kick out”
for the old signer. When the affirmative vote exceeds 50% of the
total number of authorized signers, the signer will be kicked out.
This greatly guarantees the security of blockchain network.
In our BIoV, the default authorized RSUs are responsible for
generating blocks as signers. Each height has a signer in the IN-
TURN state and other signers in the OUT-OF-TURN state. The
signer signed block whose state is IN-TURN will be broadcast
immediately, and the signer signed block whose state is OUT-
OF-TURN will be broadcast after a little random time delay, so
as to ensure that the in-turn signed block has a higher priority to
generate blocks. The remaining RSUs verify and decide whether
to add the current block to the blockchain.
C. Security and Reliability Analysis
Unlike traditional transactions based on intermediaries,
within the blockchain environment, distributed nodes in the
network jointly maintain and store transaction data, which makes
the system operate at low cost and high reliability. In our
V2V electricity trading scheme, blockchain technology helps to
ensure the reliability of electricity trading and the data privacy
security of vehicle users. Specifically, the security and reliability
performances of BIoV are listed as follows.
1) Not Relying on a Third Party: With the advent of blockchain
technology, trust can be built on mathematics, technology and
algorithms, instead of relying on third parties. In our BIoV, the
authorized RSUs work together as distributed nodes to maintain
transaction data on the network. Even if one node is under
malicious attack, the rest can still guarantee the normal operation
of the network. Therefore, the reliability of the system is ensured
while the maintenance cost is reduced.
2) Data Encryption: In the blockchain network, asymmetric
encryption is performed using public/private key pairs. The
public key is public to others, the private key is secretly kept
by self, and no one else can deduce the corresponding private
key from the public key. The message sender uses its private
key to sign the message and sends it to the message receiver,
who uses the public key of the message sender to decrypt the
signature so as to ensure that the message is sent by information
sender. Furthermore, the message receiver can use his private
key to decrypt the message. In our BIoV, electric vehicle users
communicate with RSU in this way to ensure that message
content is not disclosed.
3) Transaction Validation: In our BIoV, all transaction data is
publicly reviewed and verified by all authorized RSUs. Due to
the overwhelming cost, it is impossible to harm all entities in the
blockchain. Even if a RSU is compromised, other RSUs will still
find and correct problematic transaction data before construct-
ing blocks. Furthermore, transaction records are permanently
recorded in the blockchain ledger in the order of timestamp,
which makes transactions traceable. For our decentralized elec-
tricity trading system, it provides a more secure and reliable
trading platform.
IV. BAYESIAN-GAME-BASED TRADING SCHEME
In practical trading application, both RSUs and vehicles are
not trivial to acquire the full information of the whole IoV
network timely, due to communication and computation load
exponentially related to network size. In such scenario, the
Bayesian game has the potential to solve the V2V electricity
pricing problem with incomplete information. The electricity
buyers and the electricity sellers in the transaction have no
accurate information about each other, and they hope that their
expected utility can be maximized. The electricity pricing prob-
lem we need to solve is the final transaction price and volume. In
this section, firstly, the Bayesian game based pricing mechanism
is designed to maximize the utility of electricity buyers and elec-
tricity sellers. Next, the transaction volume under the maximized
social welfare condition according to the pricing can be obtained.
These mechanisms are integrated in smart contracts. When an
electricity trading occurs, the smart contracts will be executed
to complete the transaction.
A. V2V Electricity Trading Problem Formulation
Consider the IoVs consisting of two kinds of vehicles, i.e.,
electricity buyers and electricity sellers, and RSUs as auction-
eers. For each buyer i, it requests electricity bi, where bi ∈
[bmin
i , bmax
i ]. It means buyer i requires minimum electricity bmin
i
for the necessary trip and can accept maximum electricity bmax
i .
For seller j, it has electricity st
j currently and would reserve elec-
tricity sr
j for the necessary trip itself. It can provide electricity no
more than st
j for trading. Furthermore, in our designed electricity
trading scheme, for the sake of simplicity, the electricity sellers
need to go to the place that the electricity buyer requests to make
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XIA et al.: BAYESIAN GAME BASED VEHICLE-TO-VEHICLE ELECTRICITY TRADING SCHEME 6861
Fig. 2. The process of electricity trading.
the electricity trading. dji is the distance between the electricity
seller j and the electricity buyer i. When the electricity buyer
receives the replies from multiple electricity sellers, the buyer
can choose the vehicles close to itself to conduct the electricity
trading, e.g., 1km, so as to meet the electricity demand more
quickly.
In the transaction between electricity buyers and electricity
sellers, bij is the electricity volume demand of electricity buyer
i for electricity seller j. sji is the electricity volume supply from
electricity seller j to electricity buyer i. As the demand from
electricity buyers matches the supply from electricity sellers,
therefore, bij = sji. Note that symbols used in this paper are
summarized in Table I.
Fig. 2 shows the transaction process between electricity buyer
and electricity buyer. First, to adapt to market price level, auc-
tioneer needs to impose price restrictions on both the electricity
buyer and the electricity seller to make the transactions more
efficient. vmin declared by auctioneer, denotes the lower bound
of electricity price for buyers. cmax indicates the upper bound of
electricity price for sellers.
Electricity request: Electricity buyer i sends a request to
auctioneer and submits the unit electricity value vi, where vi ∈
[vmin
i , vmax
i ]. At the same time, electricity buyers need to submit
their own minimum and maximum electricity demand, which is
denoted by bmin
i and bmax
i , respectively.
Electricity supply: Electricity sellers receive electricity de-
mand message from auctioneer. When a seller j chooses to sell its
surplus electricity, it will submit the unit value cj to auctioneer,
where cj ∈ [cmin
j , cmax
j ].
Broadcast information: After receiving the purchase de-
mand information from the electricity buyer and the supply
information from the electricity seller, The smart contract de-
signed for the transaction will execute to get the optimal trading
scheme. The auctioneer will broadcast the information to the
sellers and buyers.
Electricity transaction: When the electricity buyers and
electricity sellers receive the trading scheme, they will start to
execute electricity trading according to the scheme.
B. Bayesian Game Based Pricing Mechanism
In this trading scheme, electricity sellers and buyers submit
their electricity information to the auctioneer. The smart contract
will be executed to calculate the bid price of the two parties to
maximize their revenue. If the electricity buyer offers no more
than the electricity seller’s asking price, the transaction will be
cancelled.
Here, assuming that the pricing of both parties satisfies the
linear strategic equilibrium, then the price function of electricity
buyer i bid for electricity seller j is assumed to be
Pij(vi) = αb + βbvi. (1)
The price function of electricity seller j ask for electricity buyer
i is assumed to be
Rji(cj) = αs + βscj . (2)
In this transaction scheme, both sides of the transaction are
in the situation of incomplete information. Electricity buyers
only know their unit electricity value of vi. Similarly, electricity
sellers only know their unit electricity value of cj . Therefore,
for electricity buyer, the optimal bidding scheme is to
max
Pij
[
vi − 1
2
(Pij + E[Rji(cj)|Pij ≥ Rji(cj)])
]
·Prob{Pij ≥ Rji(cj)},
(3)
whereE[Rji(cj)|Pij ≥ Rji(cj)]means that under the condition
that the electricity buyer’s bid is not lower than the electricity
seller’s bid, the electricity buyer expects the electricity seller’s
bid. For electricity buyer, the optimal bidding scheme is to
max
Rji
[
1
2
(Rji + E[Pij(vi)|Pij(vi) ≥ Rji])− cj
]
·Prob{Pij(vi) ≥ Rji},
(4)
whereE[Pij(vi)|Pij(vi) ≥ Rji]means that under the condition
that the electricity buyer’s bid is not lower than the electricity
seller’s bid, the electricity seller expects the electricity buyer’s
bid. Based on the bidding scheme, we have following theorem.
Theorem 1: In the Bayesian game based trading scheme,
when the bid price of electricity buyers and electricity sellers
satisfy formulas (5) and (6) respectively, the strategic combina-
tion {P ∗ij , R∗ji} is a Bayesian equilibrium, i.e.,
P ∗ij =
1
12
vmax
i +
1
4
cmin
j +
2
3
vi, (5)
R∗ji =
1
12
cmin
j +
1
4
vmax
i +
2
3
cj . (6)
Proof: Assuming that cj , vi are evenly distributed over their
respective intervals, then Prob{Pij ≥ Rji(cj)} in (3) can be
obtained as
Prob{Pij ≥ Rji(cj)} = Prob{Pij ≥ αs + βsc
min
j }
=
Pij − αs − βsc
min
j
βs(cmax
j − cmin
j )
, (7)
and E[Rji(cj)|Pij ≥ Rji(cj)] in (3) can be obtained as
E[Rji(cj)|Pij ≥ Rji(cj)] =
∫ Pij
αs+βscmin
j
xdx
Pij − αs − βscmin
j
=
1
2
(αs + βsc
min
j + Pij). (8)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6862 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
Similarly, Prob{Pij(vi) ≥ Rji} and E[Pij(vi)|Pij(vi) ≥
Rji] in (4) can be respectively obtained as
Prob{Pij(vi) ≥ Rji} = Prob{αb + βbv
max
i ≥ Rji}
=
αb + βbv
max
i −Rji
βb(vmax
i − vmin
i )
, (9)
E[Pij(vi)|Pij(vi) ≥ Rji] =
∫ αb+βbv
max
i
Rji
xdx
αb + βbvmax
i −Rji
=
1
2
(αb + βbv
max
i +Rji). (10)
Substitute the (7), (8) and (9), (10) into (3) and (4) respectively.
Combine them with the (1) and (2), P ∗ij and R∗ji are derived. The
proof is finished. �
When the pricing equilibrium (P ∗ij , R∗ji) is obtained, if the
price P ∗ij of the electricity buyer i is not lower than the price R∗ji
of the electricity seller j, the transaction price Tij =
P ∗ij+R∗ji
2 .
Otherwise, the transaction is not valid.
C. Optimization of Electricity Trading Volume
From the perspective of social welfare, the V2V electricity
trading scheme should maximize social welfare and effectively
achieve market equilibrium. In our trading scheme, when elec-
tricity buyers and electricity sellers decide to trade electricity,
the smart contract calculates the optimal transaction volume
between electricity buyers and electricity consumers under the
condition of maximizing social welfare. Here, the objective
function of social welfare problem is expected as follows:
P1 : max
bi,sj
I∑
i=1
U(bi)−
J∑
j=1
C(sj), (11)
s.t. bmin
i ≤
J∑
j=1
bij ≤ bmax
i , (12)
st
j −
I∑
i=1
(1 + ρj)sji ≤ sr
j , (13)
bij = sji ≥ 0, (14)
where
U(bi) = wiln
⎛
⎝ J∑
j=1
bij − bmin
i + 1
⎞
⎠ , (15)
C(sj) = l1
I∑
i=1
ρj(sji)
2 + l2
I∑
i=1
ρjsji. (16)
Suppose that the willingness wi of each electricity buyer with
each electricity seller falls in [0, 5]. l1 > 0 and l2 > 0 are cost
factor. Substitute (15) and (16) into (11). Then, the second-order
partial derivatives satisfy
d2(bi)
dbi
2 < 0,
d2C(sj)
dsj2
> 0. Accord-
ingly, the objective function (11) is strictly concave and the
restriction conditions are also convex. The objective function
has a unique optimal solution.
When electricity buyers and electricity sellers submit their
respective quotations to the auctioneer, it needs to calculate the
optimal transaction volumes according to their different needs.
Referring to [35], the following optimization function is set for
auctioneer to determine the transaction volumes, by which the
maximum utility of traded energies can be achieved, i.e.,
P2 : max
bi,sj
I∑
i=1
J∑
j=1
[Tij ln bij − Tijsji],
s.t. (12), (13), and (14). (17)
It can be seen thatP2 is also a strictly concave function. In the
following, the optimal transaction volume {b∗ij , s∗ji} that satisfy
both the social welfare in P1 and electricity utility in P2 are
pursued. The results are presented in followed Theorem 2.
Theorem 2: The optimal transaction volume {b∗ij , s∗ji}
achieving the maximum social welfare can be derived by
b∗ij = s∗ji =
Trji − l2ρj
2l1ρj
. (18)
Proof: Since that P1 and P2 together with their con-
straints are all convex, the Karush-Kuhn-Tucher condition can
be used to solve the both optimization problems. Specifically,
α = {αi|i = 1, . . . , I}, β = {βi|i = 1, . . . , I}, γ = {γi|i =
1, . . . , I}, λ = {λij |i = 1, . . . , I; j = 1, . . . , J}, μ = {μij |i =
1, . . . , I; j = 1, . . . , J} as Lagrange multipliers for constraints,
the dual function of P1 is
F1(bi, sj , α, β, γ, δ, λ, μ) =
I∑
i=1
U(bi)−
J∑
j=1
C(sj)
+
I∑
i=1
αi
⎛
⎝bmin
i −
J∑
j=1
bij
⎞
⎠+
I∑
i=1
βi
⎛
⎝ J∑
j=1
bij − bmax
i
⎞
⎠
+
J∑
j=1
γi
[
st
j −
I∑
i=1
(1 + ρj)sji − sr
j
]
+
I∑
i=1
J∑
j=1
λij(bij − sji)−
I∑
i=1
J∑
j=1
μijbij , (19)
The partial derivatives of (19) are
∇bijF1(bi, sj , α, β, γ, λ, μ) =
wi∑J
j=1 bij − bmin
i + 1
− αi + βi − λij − μij = 0.
(20)
∇sjiF1(bi, sj , α, β, γ, λ, μ) = − 2l1ρjsji − l2ρj
− (1 + ρj)γj − λij = 0.
(21)
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XIA et al.: BAYESIAN GAME BASED VEHICLE-TO-VEHICLE ELECTRICITY TRADING SCHEME 6863
Algorithm 1: V2V Electricity Trading Algorithm.
Input: {bmin
i , bmax
i , vmin
i , vmax
i , vi}N
i=1,
{smin
j , smax
j , cmin
j , cmax
j , cj}M
j=1
Initialization: cmax, vmin
Output: {Tij , bij}
1: for i = 1→ N do
2: for j = 1→M do
3: if cmax ≤ cmax
j or cj /∈ [cmin
j , cmax
j ] then
4: seller j needs to resubmit the bid.
5: end if
6: if vmin
i ≤ vmin or vi /∈ [vmin
i , vmax
i ] then
7: buyer i needs to resubmit the bid.
8: end if
9: if cmax ≥ cmax
j and vmin
i ≥ vmin then
10: Solve (3) and (4), the optimal biding prices
{P ∗ij , R∗ji} that achieve the Bayesian equilibrium
can be obtained.
11: if Pij ≥ Rji then
12: Tij = (Pij +Rji)/2
13: else
14: The transaction between buyer i and seller j is
not valid.
15: end if
16: end if
17: Solve the problem P1 and P2 according to Tij to
get the optimal trading volume {b∗ij , s∗ji}.
18: end for
19: end for
20: return {Tij , bij}
Similarly, suppose F2(bi, sj , α, β, γ, λ, μ) as the dual func-
tion of P2. Then, its partial derivatives are
∇bijF2(bi, sj , α, β, γ, λ, μ) =
Tij
bij
− αi + βi − λij − μij = 0.
(22)
∇sjiF2(bi, sj , α, β, γ, δ, λ, μ) = −Trji
− (1 + ρj)γj − λij = 0.
(23)
Combining (20), (21), (22), and (23), the optimal transaction
volume can be obtained. The proof is finished. �
In summary, with Theorem 1, the optimal biding prices
{P ∗ij , R∗ji} that achieve the Bayesian equilibrium has been ob-
tained. Then, with Theorem 2, the optimal transaction volumes
{b∗ij , s∗ji} between the buyers and sellers are obtained, which
achieve the maximum social welfare.
D. Complexity Analysis
In our designed electricity trading mechanism, as shown
in Algorithm 1, assuming there are N electricity buyers and
M electricity sellers. Firstly, the price equilibrium is solved
in the pricing mechanism based on Bayesian game, and then
Fig. 3. Experimental scenario: the traffic map of Jinhua city.
the optimal electricity trading volume under the constraint
condition is solved according to the designed social welfare
maximization objective function. For the time complexity of
convex optimization problem O(max(n3, n2m,F )), where n
is the number of input data, m is the number of constraints and
m = N +M +NM , F is the computational cost of solving
the first and second derivatives of the objective function and the
constraint function.
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
A. Simulation Settings
A blockchain-based parking prototype has been established.
A Fabric blockchain network with version 1.4 was deployed
on 4 servers. Golang is used as the development language of
smart contract. Applications access multiple resources in Fabric
blockchain network through SDK, including ledger, transaction,
chaincode, event, and permission management.
In our electricity trading experiment, as shown in Fig. 3, we
chose Jinhua city as the experimental scenario. Specifically, we
selected some electric vehicles which can carry out electricity
trading in a region as the electricity sellers and the electricity
buyers. According to the different transaction needs proposed by
vehicle users, the optimal transaction scheme will be obtained
by implementing the smart contract based on BIoV designed in
this paper. As shown in Algorithm 2, Function BuyerSubmit
is the input of demand information of the electricity buyer,
and function SellerSubmit is the input of supply information
of the electricity seller, which will be encrypted and saved
on the blockchain to ensure the security of user information.
According to the information submitted by the electricity buyers
and electricity sellers, the function TradingScheme uses the
Bayesian game pricing scheme designed in this paper to dis-
tribute the electricity. The transaction records will be recorded
in the blockchain ledger, and the electricity buyers and electricity
sellers must conduct the electricity trading in strict accordance
with the result, so as to ensure the traceability and non-tamper
of the transaction.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6864 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
Algorithm 2: Smart Contract Implementation Algorithm.
1: func (t *TradingChaincode) BuyerSubmit(stub
shim.ChaincodeStubInterface, args []string) peer.Response
{
2: var buyer BuyerInfo
3: {vmin
i , vmax
i , vi, b
min
i , bmax
i } ← args
4: buyerInfoAsJSONBytes, err←
json.Marshal(buyer)
5: err = stub.PutState(buyer.BuyerID,
buyerInfoAsJSONBytes)
6: return shim.Success(buyerInfoAsJSONBytes)
7: }
8: func (t *TradingChaincode) SellerSubmit(stub
shim.ChaincodeStubInterface, args []string) peer.Response
{
9: var seller SellerInfo
10: {cmin
j , cmax
j , cj , s
t
j , s
r
j} ← args
11: sellerInfoAsJSONBytes, err←
json.Marshal(seller)
12: err = stub.PutState(seller.SellerID,
sellerInfoAsJSONBytes)
13: }
14: func (t *TradingChaincode) TradingScheme(stub
shim.ChaincodeStubInterface, args []string) peer.Response
{
15: var buyer BuyerInfo
16: var seller SellerInfo
17: var transaction TransactionInfo
18: var l1, l2, ρj float64
19: buyerResult, err← stub.GetState(args[0])
20: err = json.Unmarshal(buyerResult, &buyer)
21: sellerResult, err← stub.GetState(args[1])
22: err = json.Unmarshal(sellerResult, &seller)
23: for i = 1; i < N ; i++ {
24: for j = 1; j < M ; j ++ {
25: Pij(vi) = vmin
i /12 + cmin
j /4 + (2*vi)/3
26: Rji(cj) = cmin
j /12 + vmax
i /4 + (2*cj)/3
27: if Pij(vi) <Rji(cj) {
28: return shim.Error(”Transaction failed!”)
29: }
30: Tij = (Pij(vi) + Rji(cj)) / 2
31: sji = Trji − l2ρj/2l1ρj
32: }
33: }
34: err = stub.PutState(transaction.TxID,
transactionAsJSONBytes)
35: return shim.Success(transactionAsJSONBytes)
36: }
B. Results and Analysis
1) Transaction Price Based on Bayesian Game: In the stud-
ied BIoV, we consider Bayesian game based on linear strategy
for transaction pricing. Fig. 4 shows the relationship between
electricity buyer’s bid price Pij and unit electricity value vi.
The bid price of electricity buyer has a linear relationship with
Fig. 4. The pricing strategy of electricity buyer.
Fig. 5. The pricing strategy of electricity seller.
vi. The price offered by the electricity buyer is influenced by
the minimum electricity value cmin
j of the electricity seller and
the maximum electricity value vmax
i of the electricity seller.
Assuming that the cmin
j is determined, the electricity buyer hopes
to lower its bid by lowering the vmax
i , thereby lowering the
transaction price. However, for market equilibrium, the system
have limited the vi of the electricity buyer, i.e., vmin. In addition,
it can be found that when the electricity buyer reduces vmax
i , the
probability of unsuccessful transaction will increase due to the
lower price.
Similarly, as shown in Fig. 5, the bid price of the electricity
seller sji has a linear relationship with unit electricity value cj
proposed by electricity seller j. When electricity seller adds cmin
j
to raise its asking price, the probability of success in electricity
trading will also decrease. In the electricity trading scheme
designed in this paper, when the bid price of the electricity
buyer is lower than the asking price of the electricity seller,
the transaction is invalid. As shown in Fig. 6, when cj and vi
satisfy vi ≥ cj +
1
4
vmax
i − 1
4
cmin
j , electricity buyers and elec-
tricity sellers can trade successfully, otherwise the transaction
will fail.
2) Comparison With Complete Information: In contrast to
incomplete information, complete information game means that
each user has accurate information about the characteristics,
strategies and benefit functions of all other users. Under com-
plete information, the two sides of the transaction know each
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XIA et al.: BAYESIAN GAME BASED VEHICLE-TO-VEHICLE ELECTRICITY TRADING SCHEME 6865
Fig. 6. The transaction price based on Bayesian game.
Fig. 7. User satisfaction with incomplete information and complete informa-
tion.
other’s pricing strategy. Under incomplete information, the pric-
ing strategy is formulated by estimating the expected price of
both sides of the transaction. User satisfaction is defined as the
ratio of transaction price to its own bid, that is, the closer the
transaction price is to its own bid, the higher the satisfaction
is. As shown in Fig. 7, the user satisfaction under incomplete
information and complete information are simulated. Further-
more, the user satisfaction of Bayesian game pricing strategy
with incomplete information is compared with that of static game
pricing strategy with complete information, as shown in Fig. 8.
The pricing of complete information and incomplete informa-
tion has been simulated in different bid ranges. Referring to the
benchmark of static game with complete information, the pro-
posed Bayesian game with incomplete information can achieve
approximate satisfaction of users. The degree of approximation
is basically higher than 80% and can reach to 98% when the
pricing ranges of buyers and sellers are close. Moreover, the
Bayesian game with incomplete information has great advan-
tages over the static game with complete information in terms
of communication overhead and timeliness in the decentralized
IoVs.
3) Bayesian Game Based Price Versus the Single Price: As
shown in Fig. 9, the single price is a given market price. If the
unit electricity value considered by the buyer is higher than the
single price, and the unit electricity value considered by the
seller is lower than the single price, both parties would trade
Fig. 8. Comparison of user satisfaction with incomplete information versus
complete information.
Fig. 9. A Bayesian game based price versus a single price.
according to the price. Compared with a single price, there is
a certain relationship between the electricity value v proposed
by the electricity buyer and the electricity value c proposed by
the electricity seller under the linear strategy based on Bayesian
game.
Assuming that v ∈ [0.5, 1], c ∈ [0.5, 1], it can be seen that the
trading area is above v = c+
1
8
, that is, when v ≥ c+
1
8
, the
transaction is successful. However, for a single price strategy,
trading is established in the area of c ≤ 0.75 and v ≥ 0.75.
Furthermore, the single price missed some valuable transac-
tions, e.g., c = 0 and v = 0.75− ε, where ε is small enough. In
contrast, pricing equilibrium under a linear strategy loses trans-
actions of little value, i.e., 0 ≤ v − c <
1
8
. From the perspective
of maximizing the expected benefit available to participants,
as shown in Fig. 10, the user benefit of the linear strategic
equilibrium based on Bayesian games is better than a single
price.
4) Electricity Prices Under Different Conditions: In the tra-
ditional P2P electricity trading system, electricity buyers op-
timize their daily charging cost individually by programming
when and where charge their vehicles, taking into account
the day-ahead electricity price provided by the electric market
operator. Fig. 11 compares the electricity prices of the grid and
vehicles in the P2P electricity trading system with the transaction
prices in our proposed Bayesian-game-based electricity trading
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6866 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
Fig. 10. The benefit based on Bayesian game and single price.
Fig. 11. The electricity price of the grid and vehicles.
scheme. In the traditional P2P electricity trading system, when
the electricity price is lower than the seller’s asking price, the
electricity buyer will choose to purchase electricity from the
grid. Instead, they will choose to buy electricity from electricity
sellers. Therefore, electricity buyers need to make their own
charging plan. However, in our electricity trading scheme based
on Bayesian game, when users need to purchase electricity, they
only need to send a message to RSU and submit the electricity
demand, and the optimal transaction price and volume can be
obtained with smart contract calculation. In addition, electricity
trading can take place at any time and place. Therefore, the
V2V electricity trading scheme proposed in this paper is more
convenient for electricity buyers.
Fig. 12 compares electricity prices from different proportions
of electricity buyers and electricity sellers in the P2P electric-
ity trading system with the transaction prices in our proposed
Bayesian-game-based electricity trading scheme. In the P2P
electricity trading system, electricity prices are relatively high
when there are more buyers than sellers. Conversely, electricity
is relatively cheaper. In our Bayesian-game-based electricity
trading scheme, the price of electricity does not change with the
number of electricity buyers and sellers. From the user’s point
of view, our electricity trading scheme can make more efficient
use of electricity and improve trading efficiency.
5) Electricity Transaction Volume: For simplicity, there con-
siders the loss rate as a factor to affect the seller’s electricity.
As shown in Fig. 13, the electricity trading volume is negatively
Fig. 12. The electricity price of different radio of vehicles.
Fig. 13. The relationship between the volume and loss rate.
Fig. 14. The electricity trading price and volume.
correlated with the electricity loss rate. The higher the electricity
loss rate, the lower the electricity trading volume. Furthermore,
in the social welfare objective function, the satisfaction of the
electricity buyer minus the consumption cost of the electricity
seller as social welfare, in order to maximize the social welfare,
it is necessary to reduce the consumption cost. Specifically, the
power transaction of a group of electric vehicles is simulated.
As shown in Fig. 14, the electricity trading volume is positively
correlated with the price. Moreover, it can be found that when
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
XIA et al.: BAYESIAN GAME BASED VEHICLE-TO-VEHICLE ELECTRICITY TRADING SCHEME 6867
the price of electricity is the same, due to the impact of power
loss rate, the transaction volume appears different.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, a V2V electricity trading scheme based on
blockchain technology has been designed for IoVs. In particular,
the Bayesian game based pricing scheme has been designed to
deal with the incomplete information sharing in distributed IoVs.
The optimal pricing under the linear strategic equilibrium is
obtained which maximizes the utilities of both sides of electricity
transaction. The transaction volume is determined from the
formulated convex problem that maximizes the social welfare.
For implementation, the pricing game is conducted by the ded-
icated smart contract. Blockchain is leveraged to guarantee its
trustworthiness, security, and reliability. Numerical results have
demonstrated the feasibility and validity of the proposed V2V
electricity trading scheme. In future, the blockchain technology
based vehicle energy trading schemes in a more general scenario
will be considered, such as mixed V2X electricity trading.
REFERENCES
[1] S. S. Gill et al., “Transformative effects of IoT, blockchain and artificial
intelligence on cloud computing: Evolution, vision, trends and open chal-
lenges,” Internet Things, vol. 8, no. 12, pp. 1–26, Dec. 2019.
[2] S. Nakamoto, “Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system,” White
Paper, 2008, [Online]. Available: https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
[3] Y. Wang, Z. Su, Q. Xu, T. Yang, and N. Zhang, “A novel charging scheme
for electric vehicles with smart communities in vehicular networks,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 8487–8501, Sep. 2019.
[4] Y. Wu, X. Tan, L. Qian, D. H. K. Tsang, W. Song, and L. Yu, “Optimal
pricing and energy scheduling for hybrid energy trading market in future
smart grid,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 11, no. 6, pp. 1585–1596,
Dec. 2015.
[5] C. M. Martinez, X. Hu, D. Cao, E. Velenis, B. Gao, and M. Wellers,
“Energy management in plug-in hybrid electric vehicles: Recent progress
and a connected vehicles perspective,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 66,
no. 6, pp. 4534–4549, Jun. 2017.
[6] J. Mohammadi, G. Hug, and S. Kar, “A fully distributed cooperative
charging approach for plug-in electric vehicles,” IEEE Trans. Smart Grid,
vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 3507–3518, Jul. 2018.
[7] S. Zou, Z. Ma, X. Liu, and I. Hiskens, “An efficient game for coordinating
electric vehicle charging,” IEEE Trans. Autom. Control, vol. 62, no. 5,
pp. 2374–2389, May 2017.
[8] C. Liu, K. K. Chai, X. Zhang, E. T. Lau, and Y. Chen, “Adaptive blockchain-
based electric vehicle participation scheme in smart grid platform,” IEEE
Access, vol. 6, pp. 25 657–25 665, 2018.
[9] J. Kang, R. Yu, X. Huang, S. Maharjan, Y. Zhang, and E. Hossain,
“Enabling localized peer-to-peer electricity trading among plug-in hybrid
electric vehicles using consortium blockchains,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Infor-
mat., vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 3154–3164, Dec. 2017.
[10] S. Sicari, A. Rizzardi, L. Grieco, and A. Coen-Porisini, “Security, privacy
and trust in internet of things: The road ahead,” Comput. Netw., vol. 76,
pp. 146–164, 2015.
[11] C. Xu, W. Quan, H. Zhang, and L. A. Grieco, “GrIMS: Green information-
centric multimedia streaming framework in vehicular ad hoc networks,”
IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 483–498,
Feb. 2018.
[12] O. Kaiwartya et al., “Internet of vehicles: Motivation, layered architecture,
network model, challenges, and future aspects,” IEEE Access, vol. 4,
pp. 5356–5373, 2016.
[13] F. Yang, S. Wang, J. Li, Z. Liu, and Q. Sun, “An overview of internet of
vehicles,” China Commun., vol. 11, no. 10, pp. 1–15, Oct. 2014.
[14] W. Zhang and X. Xi, “The innovation and development of internet of
vehicles,” China Commun., vol. 13, no. 5, pp. 122–127, May 2016.
[15] A. Singh, L. Gaba, and A. Sharma, “Internet of vehicles: Proposed archi-
tecture, network models, open issues and challenges,” in Proc. Amity Int.
Conf. Artif. Intell., 2019, pp. 632–636.
[16] S. Ahmed, S. Al-Rubeaai, and K. Tepe, “Novel trust framework for vehic-
ular networks,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 66, no. 10, pp. 9498–9511,
Oct. 2017.
[17] S. Tanwar, Q. Bhatia, P. Patel, A. Kumari, P. K. Singh, and W. Hong,
“Machine learning adoption in blockchain-based smart applications: The
challenges, and a way forward,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp. 474–488, 2020.
[18] P. Bhattacharya, S. Tanwar, U. Bodke, S. Tyagi, and N. Kumar,
“BinDaaS: Blockchain-based deep-learning as-a-service in healthcare
4.0 applications,” IEEE Trans. Netw. Sci. Eng., to be published, doi:
10.1109/TNSE.2019.2961932.
[19] I. Mistry, S. Tanwar, S. Tyagi, and N. Kumar, “Blockchain for 5G-enabled
IoT for industrial automation: A systematic review, solutions, and chal-
lenges,” Mech. Syst. Signal Process., vol. 135, no. 1, pp. 1–21, Jan. 2020.
[20] Y. Yuan and F. Wang, “Towards blockchain-based intelligent transporta-
tion systems,” in Proc. IEEE 19th Int. Conf. Intell. Transp. Syst., 2016,
pp. 2663–2668.
[21] L. Li et al., “CreditCoin: A privacy-preserving blockchain-based incentive
announcement network for communications of smart vehicles,” IEEE
Trans. Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 2204–2220, Jul. 2018.
[22] T. Jiang, H. Fang, and H. Wang, “Blockchain-based internet of vehicles:
Distributed network architecture and performance analysis,” IEEE Internet
Things J., vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 4640–4649, Jun. 2019.
[23] M. Liu, Y. Teng, F. R. Yu, V. C. M. Leung, and M. Song, “Deep rein-
forcement learning based performance optimization in blockchain-enabled
Internet of vehicle,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Commun., 2019, pp. 1–6.
[24] C. Chen, J. Wu, H. Lin, W. Chen, and Z. Zheng, “A secure and efficient
blockchain-based data trading approach for internet of vehicles,” IEEE
Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 9110–9121, Sep. 2019.
[25] Z. Li, J. Kang, R. Yu, D. Ye, Q. Deng, and Y. Zhang, “Consortium
blockchain for secure energy trading in industrial internet of things,” IEEE
Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 14, no. 8, pp. 3690–3700, Aug. 2018.
[26] Y. Wang, Z. Su, and N. Zhang, “BSIS: Blockchain-based secure incentive
scheme for energy delivery in vehicular energy network,” IEEE Trans. Ind.
Informat., vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 3620–3631, Jun. 2019.
[27] J. Kang, Z. Xiong, D. Niyato, D. Ye, D. I. Kim, and J. Zhao, “Toward
secure blockchain-enabled Internet of Vehicles: Optimizing consensus
management using reputation and contract theory,” IEEE Trans. Veh.
Technol., vol. 68, no. 3, pp. 2906–2920, Mar. 2019.
[28] N. Z. Aitzhan and D. Svetinovic, “Security and privacy in decentralized
energy trading through multi-signatures, blockchain and anonymous mes-
saging streams,” IEEE Trans. Dependable Secure Comput., vol. 15, no. 5,
pp. 840–852, Sep. 2018.
[29] X. Huang, C. Xu, P. Wang, and H. Liu, “LNSC: A security model
for electric vehicle and charging pile management based on blockchain
ecosystem,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 13 565–13 574, 2018.
[30] R. Alvaro-Hermana, J. Fraile-Ardanuy, P. J. Zufiria, L. Knapen, and
D. Janssens, “Peer to peer energy trading with electric vehicles,” IEEE
Intell. Transp. Syst. Mag., vol. 8, no. 3, pp. 33–44, Fall 2016.
[31] C. Lin, D. Deng, C. Kuo, and Y. Liang, “Optimal charging control of energy
storage and electric vehicle of an individual in the internet of energy with
energy trading,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 14, no. 6, pp. 2570–2578,
Jun. 2018.
[32] P. Tedeschi et al., “Blockchain as a service: Securing bartering function-
alities in the H2020 symbIoTe framework,” Internet Technol. Lett., vol. 2,
no. 1, pp. 1–6, Aug. 2018.
[33] U. Asfia, V. Kamuni, A. Sheikh, S. Wagh, and D. Patel, “Energy trading
of electric vehicles using blockchain and smart contracts,” in Proc. 18th
Eur. Control Conf., 2019, pp. 3958–3963.
[34] D. Puthal and S. P. Mohanty, “Proof of authentication: IoT-friendly
blockchains,” IEEE Potentials, vol. 38, no. 1, pp. 26–29, Jan. 2019.
[35] F. P. Kelly, A. K. Maulloo, and D. K. H. Tan, “Rate control for commu-
nication networks: Shadow prices, proportional fairness and stability,” J.
Oper. Res. Soc., vol. 49, no. 3, pp. 237–252, 1998.
Shengnan Xia received the B.Eng. degree from the
Department of Computer and Information Technol-
ogy, Xinyang Nomal University, Xinyang, China, in
2018. She is currently working toward the graduate
degree from the Department of Mathematics and
Computer Science, Zhejiang Normal University, Jin-
hua, China. Her research interests include vehicular
networks, blockchain technology and applications,
and game theory.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf
https://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TNSE.2019.2961932
6868 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VEHICULAR TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 69, NO. 7, JULY 2020
Feilong Lin (Member, IEEE) received the B.Eng.
and M.Eng. degrees in electronic information en-
gineering from Xidian University, Xi’an, China, in
2004 and 2007, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree in
control science and engineering from Shanghai Jiao
Tong University, Shanghai, China, in 2016. He joined
the School of Mathematics and Computer Science,
Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, China, in 2016,
where he is currently a Lecturer and the Associate
Director of the Department of Computer Science and
Engineering. He is also the Deputy Director of the
Blockchain Lab of Zhejiang Normal University. His research interests include
network optimization and distributed parameter estimation in industrial wireless
sensor networks, edge computing, and blockchain technology and applications.
Zhongyu Chen (Member, IEEE) received the Ph.D.
degree from the College of Computer, Shanghai Uni-
versity, in 2011. He is currently a Full Professor with
the Department of Computer Science and Engineer-
ing, Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, China. He is
the Chief Director of the Blockchain Lab of Zhejiang
Normal University, the chief director of the Center
of Software R&D of Zhejiang Normal University,
and the Vice Chairman of the Zhejiang Blockchain
Technology Application Association. His research
interests include software engineering, big data, and
blockchain technology and applications.
Changbing Tang (Member, IEEE) received the B.S.
and M.S. degrees in mathematics and applied math-
ematics from Zhejiang Normal University at Jinhua,
Jinhua, China, in 2004 and 2007, respectively, and
the Ph.D. degree from the Department of Electronic
Engineering, Fudan University at Shanghai, Shang-
hai, China, in 2014. He is currently an Associate
Professor with the College of Physics and Electron-
ics Information Engineering, Zhejiang Normal Uni-
versity. His current research interests include game
theory, blockchain and its applications, networks and
distributed optimization. Dr. Tang was a recipient of the Academic New Artist
Doctoral Post Graduate from the Ministry of Education of China in 2012.
Yongjin Ma received the B.S. and M.S. degrees
in computer science and engineering from Zhejiang
Normal University at Jinhua, in 1997 and 1999, re-
spectively. He is now an Associate Professor with the
Department of Computer Science and Engineering,
Zhejiang Normal University, Jinhua, China. His re-
search interests include computer software develop-
ment, blockchain and corresponding applications.
Xinghuo Yu (Fellow, IEEE) received B.Eng. and
M.Eng. degrees in electrical and electronic engineer-
ing from the University of Science and Technology of
China, Hefei, China, in 1982 and 1984, respectively
and Ph.D. degree in control science and engineer-
ing from Southeast University, Nanjing, China in
1988, respectively. He is an Associate Deputy Vice-
Chancellor and a Distinguished Professor at Royal
Melbourne Institute of Technology (RMIT Univer-
sity), Melbourne, Australia. He is also the Junior Past
President of IEEE Industrial Electronics Society for
2020 and 2021. His research interests include control systems, complex and intel-
ligent systems, and smart energy systems. He has served as an Associate Editor
of IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON AUTOMATIC CONTROL, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON
CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS I: REGULAR PAPERS, IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUS-
TRIAL ELECTRONICS AND IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INDUSTRIAL INFORMATICS.
He received a number of awards and honors for his contributions, including
2013 Dr.-Ing. Eugene Mittelmann Achievement Award of IEEE Industrial
Electronics Society, 2018 M A Sargent Medal from Engineers Australia and 2018
Australasian AI Distinguished Research Contribution Award from Australian
Computer Society.
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 06:26:27 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles true
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Gray Gamma 2.2)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Off
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /sRGB
  /DoThumbnails true
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 1048576
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo true
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo false
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments false
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts false
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /Algerian
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BlackItalic
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /ArialNarrow
    /ArialNarrow-Bold
    /ArialNarrow-BoldItalic
    /ArialNarrow-Italic
    /ArialUnicodeMS
    /BaskOldFace
    /Batang
    /Bauhaus93
    /BellMT
    /BellMTBold
    /BellMTItalic
    /BerlinSansFB-Bold
    /BerlinSansFBDemi-Bold
    /BerlinSansFB-Reg
    /BernardMT-Condensed
    /BodoniMTPosterCompressed
    /BookAntiqua
    /BookAntiqua-Bold
    /BookAntiqua-BoldItalic
    /BookAntiqua-Italic
    /BookmanOldStyle
    /BookmanOldStyle-Bold
    /BookmanOldStyle-BoldItalic
    /BookmanOldStyle-Italic
    /BookshelfSymbolSeven
    /BritannicBold
    /Broadway
    /BrushScriptMT
    /CalifornianFB-Bold
    /CalifornianFB-Italic
    /CalifornianFB-Reg
    /Centaur
    /Century
    /CenturyGothic
    /CenturyGothic-Bold
    /CenturyGothic-BoldItalic
    /CenturyGothic-Italic
    /CenturySchoolbook
    /CenturySchoolbook-Bold
    /CenturySchoolbook-BoldItalic
    /CenturySchoolbook-Italic
    /Chiller-Regular
    /ColonnaMT
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /CooperBlack
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /FootlightMTLight
    /FreestyleScript-Regular
    /Garamond
    /Garamond-Bold
    /Garamond-Italic
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Haettenschweiler
    /HarlowSolid
    /Harrington
    /HighTowerText-Italic
    /HighTowerText-Reg
    /Impact
    /InformalRoman-Regular
    /Jokerman-Regular
    /JuiceITC-Regular
    /KristenITC-Regular
    /KuenstlerScript-Black
    /KuenstlerScript-Medium
    /KuenstlerScript-TwoBold
    /KunstlerScript
    /LatinWide
    /LetterGothicMT
    /LetterGothicMT-Bold
    /LetterGothicMT-BoldOblique
    /LetterGothicMT-Oblique
    /LucidaBright
    /LucidaBright-Demi
    /LucidaBright-DemiItalic
    /LucidaBright-Italic
    /LucidaCalligraphy-Italic
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaFax
    /LucidaFax-Demi
    /LucidaFax-DemiItalic
    /LucidaFax-Italic
    /LucidaHandwriting-Italic
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Magneto-Bold
    /MaturaMTScriptCapitals
    /MediciScriptLTStd
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /Mistral
    /Modern-Regular
    /MonotypeCorsiva
    /MS-Mincho
    /MSReferenceSansSerif
    /MSReferenceSpecialty
    /NiagaraEngraved-Reg
    /NiagaraSolid-Reg
    /NuptialScript
    /OldEnglishTextMT
    /Onyx
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Parchment-Regular
    /Playbill
    /PMingLiU
    /PoorRichard-Regular
    /Ravie
    /ShowcardGothic-Reg
    /SimSun
    /SnapITC-Regular
    /Stencil
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /TempusSansITC
    /TimesNewRomanMT-ExtraBold
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Bold
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-BoldCond
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-BoldIt
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Cond
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-CondIt
    /TimesNewRomanMTStd-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /VinerHandITC
    /Vivaldii
    /VladimirScript
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings2
    /Wingdings3
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfChanceryStd-Demi
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 150
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages false
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /ColorImageResolution 900
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.00111
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages false
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.40
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 150
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages false
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /GrayImageResolution 1200
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.00083
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages false
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.40
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 1200
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages false
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 1600
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.00063
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /False
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /CHS <FEFF4f7f75288fd94e9b8bbe5b9a521b5efa7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065876863900275284e8e55464e1a65876863768467e5770b548c62535370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c676562535f00521b5efa768400200050004400460020658768633002>
    /CHT <FEFF4f7f752890194e9b8a2d7f6e5efa7acb7684002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002065874ef69069752865bc666e901a554652d965874ef6768467e5770b548c52175370300260a853ef4ee54f7f75280020004100630072006f0062006100740020548c002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000204ee553ca66f49ad87248672c4f86958b555f5df25efa7acb76840020005000440046002065874ef63002>
    /DAN <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>
    /DEU <FEFF00560065007200770065006e00640065006e0020005300690065002000640069006500730065002000450069006e007300740065006c006c0075006e00670065006e0020007a0075006d002000450072007300740065006c006c0065006e00200076006f006e002000410064006f006200650020005000440046002d0044006f006b0075006d0065006e00740065006e002c00200075006d002000650069006e00650020007a0075007600650072006c00e40073007300690067006500200041006e007a006500690067006500200075006e00640020004100750073006700610062006500200076006f006e00200047006500730063006800e40066007400730064006f006b0075006d0065006e00740065006e0020007a0075002000650072007a00690065006c0065006e002e00200044006900650020005000440046002d0044006f006b0075006d0065006e007400650020006b00f6006e006e0065006e0020006d006900740020004100630072006f00620061007400200075006e0064002000520065006100640065007200200035002e003000200075006e00640020006800f600680065007200200067006500f600660066006e00650074002000770065007200640065006e002e>
    /ESP <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>
    /FRA <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>
    /ITA (Utilizzare queste impostazioni per creare documenti Adobe PDF adatti per visualizzare e stampare documenti aziendali in modo affidabile. I documenti PDF creati possono essere aperti con Acrobat e Adobe Reader 5.0 e versioni successive.)
    /JPN <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>
    /KOR <FEFFc7740020c124c815c7440020c0acc6a9d558c5ec0020be44c988b2c8c2a40020bb38c11cb97c0020c548c815c801c73cb85c0020bcf4ace00020c778c1c4d558b2940020b3700020ac00c7a50020c801d569d55c002000410064006f0062006500200050004400460020bb38c11cb97c0020c791c131d569b2c8b2e4002e0020c774b807ac8c0020c791c131b41c00200050004400460020bb38c11cb2940020004100630072006f0062006100740020bc0f002000410064006f00620065002000520065006100640065007200200035002e00300020c774c0c1c5d0c11c0020c5f40020c2180020c788c2b5b2c8b2e4002e>
    /NLD (Gebruik deze instellingen om Adobe PDF-documenten te maken waarmee zakelijke documenten betrouwbaar kunnen worden weergegeven en afgedrukt. De gemaakte PDF-documenten kunnen worden geopend met Acrobat en Adobe Reader 5.0 en hoger.)
    /NOR <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>
    /PTB <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>
    /SUO <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>
    /SVE <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>
    /ENU (Use these settings to create PDFs that match the "Suggested"  settings for PDF Specification 4.0)
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice