Reputation Mechanism Designed for Blockchain Empowered Dynamic Spectrum Sharing System
Reputation Mechanism Designed for Blockchain
Empowered Dynamic Spectrum Sharing System
Yuning Yang, Xiaodong Xu, Shujun Han, Bizhu Wang, Guangyu Wang
State Key Laboratory of Networking and Switching Technology, Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications
Email: {yangyuning, xuxiaodong, hanshujun, wangbizhu 7, guangyu.wang}@bupt.edu.cn
Abstract—Blockchain-based dynamic spectrum sharing (DSS)
is viewed as a robust measure to address the management and
allocation of spectrum resources for Internet of Things (IoT)
ecosystems in a secure and auditable manner. However, existing
blockchain empowered DSS systems commonly assume the per-
fect communications among the nodes without any interference
and throughput constraints, which will mislead the spectrum
owner into making suboptimal decisions, especially under the
time-varying and unstable channel situation in IoT. To overcome
the influence of the imperfect channel situations on DSS, we pro-
pose a novel reputation mechanism-based blockchain empowered
DSS system in this paper. By considering both the historical
transaction successful rate and the communication throughput
and the real-time channel situations, the reputation mechanism
enables the spectrum owner to make the appropriate decisions
even under the occurrence of the deep decay. Furthermore,
the spectrum trading process is formulated as a Stackelberg
game to encourage the participation of the spectrum owner and
the requester. A pricing scheme is proposed by maximizing the
utilities of all nodes jointly. Simulation results confirm that our
proposed scheme is superior to existing works in revenue utility.
Index Terms—reputation mechanism, spectrum sharing,
blockchain, Stackelberg game, Internet of Things (IoT).
I. INTRODUCTION
The vigorous development of Internet of Things (IoT) has
brought about the problem of the explosive growth in spec-
trum request [1]. Blockchain-based dynamic spectrum sharing
(DSS) has opened a new situation with flexible business model
to response to market demands of particular areas, so it
improves spectrum usage efficiency by breaking the monopoly
of licensed spectrum resources owned by mobile network
operators (MNOs) [2]. Integrated with emerging blockchain
technology, which is a distributed ledger in nature with decen-
tralized, transparent and immutable features, DSS can achieve
a better effect in resource management and allocation in an
intelligent and automatic way [3]-[5].
Blockchain-empowered DSS schemes have been extensively
investigated in the literatures. As an integral component,
blockchain endeavors to overcome the security challenges.
Grissa et al. [6] proposed a trust spectrum access system called
TrustSAS to preserve privacy in a anonymous manner. Pat-
naik et al. developed a Proactive Blockchain based Spectrum
Sharing protocol against malicious attacks to assist spectrum
decision in [7]. In addition, to choose the efficient nodes and
improve the credibility of system, reputation management has
benn applied widely. Blockchain records spectrum sensing
nodes information including their corresponding trust value
to improve the sensing accuracy by evaluating the reliability
of sensing nodes in real time [8]. Similarly, Qiu et al. [9]
designed a reputation-based miner selection algorithm to select
the active miners with high reputations so that the system
could guarantee a relative secure mining process. Furthermore,
pricing game was developed in [9] to motivate MNOs to open
idle spectrums in exchange for some revenue in the stage
of spectrum allocation. As an effective incentive measure of
spectrum sharing, pricing/auction mechanism based on a first-
come-first-served queue also introduced in [10] to encourage
multi-users to access available licensed spectrum resources.
Although good prospects can be expected, there has been no
observation about how unstable channel of blockchain trading
transmissions influences the node selection and the pricing of
blockchain based DSS system.
Traditional blockchain empowered DSS system assumes an
ideal channel condition without considering inherent noise
from commuincation aspect [11]. In fact, the time-varying
and unstable IoT channel environment will influence the
transmission of blockchain tradings, particularly the request
signals may experience severe deep decay or multipath fading.
Due to the poor wireless channel quality with severe path loss,
the amplitude of the received signal in its own spectrum is
distorted. This results in spectrum owners making wrong de-
cisions in spectrum allocation and further effect the formation
and transmission of blockchain tradings. Therefore, it’s urgent
to design a effective schemes to avoid selection misguidance
from deep decay in blockchain based spectrum sharing [12].
In this paper, we design a reputation mechanism to help
the spectrum owner make the suitable decisions even under
the occurrence of deep decay. This mechanism considers trust
value as an incentive indicator in spectrum allocation, which is
premised on the previous trading transmissions of blockchain
and subjective logic model. The principle of mechanism
ensures that the IoT node with high trust value prioritizes
spectrum allocation and obtains more available bandwidths
than counterparts at a low price. The main contributions of
this paper are summarized as follows:
• We propose a novel reputation mechanism for blockchain
empowered DSS system, in which the spectrum owners
can make the proper spectrum allocation even when there
is substantial interference in IoT.
• We design the reputation mechanism relying on historical
blockchain transaction successful rate and communica-
978-1-6654-8053-6/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE 1191
20
22
 IE
EE
 3
3r
d 
An
nu
al
 In
te
rn
at
io
na
l S
ym
po
siu
m
 o
n 
Pe
rs
on
al
, I
nd
oo
r a
nd
 M
ob
ile
 R
ad
io
 C
om
m
un
ic
at
io
ns
 (P
IM
RC
) |
 9
78
-1
-6
65
4-
80
53
-6
/2
2/
$3
1.
00
 ©
20
22
 IE
EE
 |
 D
O
I: 
10
.1
10
9/
PI
M
RC
54
77
9.
20
22
.9
97
76
98
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
tion throughput, which integrate with subjective logic
model to derive the particular satisfaction level of each
spectrum requester as the basis of DSS.
• We introduce Stackelberg game to calculate the optimal
spectrum allocated bandwidth and unit price, where the
spectrum owner and requesters both reach the utility
function maximization. Simulation results prove that the
utility of our scheme outperforms existing works.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II details the network system model of spectrum trading. In
Section III, we construct the reputation mechanism in a mathe-
matical aspect. And in Section IV, we put forward the specific
optimization objective of DSS. Section V proves the validity of
the proposed scheme through simulation experiments. Finally,
we give the conclusion in Section VI.
II. SYSTEM MODEL
Depending on their basic functions and geographic loca-
tions, the IoT nodes of DSS network in Fig. 1 are classified
into three categories: full node, relay node and light node [13].
Full nodes (FNs) are generally composed of spectrum
management servers (SMSs) of MNO in the remote cloud,
while servers subjected to different MNOs are independent
of each other. As only spectrum owners of this system, their
primary mission is leasing idle spectrums and gaining essential
payoffs as additional income. Consortium blockchain deployed
among preselected SMSs, is regulated and maintained jointly
by multiple MNOs in a holistic way. Consortium blockchain
mainly undertakes the task of identity authentication, spectrum
transaction as well as data exchange cross different MNOs.
FN owns the best storage power in the network, because
they are required to record complete trading data, verify and
synchronize new blocks.
Relay nodes (RNs) formed by local edge servers (ESs)
have a rich set of features, such as collecting and transmitting
data requirements, providing transfer fuction as a relay station
of spectrum tradings, storing spectrum trading records and
blockchain information of local area network (LAN). Different
from other nodes, RN processes the strongest capability of
computing, which poses on diverse algorithms under the
cover. Public blockchain with complete topological structure
deployed on RNs, is completely free and open so that arbitrary
nodes can access the data on the chain. Public blockchain
chiefly serves plentiful applications within LAN, for instance,
peer-to-peer (P2P) spectrum trading and spectrum contracts.
Light nodes (LNs) consist of IoT user equipments (UEs),
including smartphones, personal computers, etc. In view of
different businesses, LNs interact with other counterparts so
as to collect and upload raw trading data to local RN, which
means that they are restricted to storage capacity. So their
performance is poorer compared to other nodes in DSS system.
III. REPUTATION MECHANISM
A. Performance Analysis of Blockchain Trading
Trading transmissions from UEs to local ES are susceptible
to mutual interference at the same time in LAN, so it is
C
消息传递
… …
Edge
Cell
Enterprise Network
Internet of Vehicles
消息传递
LNs
Data Package Secret Key
Public BlockchainConsortium Blockchain
Wireless Data LinkTransmission Link
LAN
Remote Cloud
Internal Link
…
RNs
FNs
Fig. 1. System model of spectrum sharing network.
meaningful to study the performance of signal-to-interference-
plus-noise ratio (SINR) of users. Note that the transaction
information can be transmitted and decoded successfully as
long as SINR is higher than the setting threshold of network.
Defined as the amount of data authenticated by the blockchain
in unit time, the communication throughput demonstrates the
processing capacity of nods and the state of sending data.
Consider a wireless communication model of DSS shown
in Fig. 2, the FN only responses to trading LNs which meet
reputation requirements of our system under the aegis of RNs,
while the rest of LNs are regarded as interference LNs. We
assume the density of LNs and RNs are distributed as a
homogeneous Poisson point process (PPP) with parameters
λl and λr, respectively. The distribution of transaction arrival
rate also follows PPP with λa in time domain [11].
It’s necessary to note that interferences among LNs in
different LANs are ignored because of the remote distance,
while active LNs within the LAN constituting a interference
area generate mutual interference simultaneously. We assume
interference area is a circular area with radius D0, where the
RN is located at the center. The distance between the trading
LN and the RN is set as D1, and the distance vector for MI
interference LNs is D2=[D2
(1),D2
(2),. . .D2
(MI)]. Tradings
transmit sucessfully if received SINR is higer than threshold
ϕ, so we need to determine the area Ω:(D1,MI ,D2) that
satisfies SINR(D1,MI ,D2)>ϕ, e.g., the satisfied range of D1
is [0,D0]. Since the number of LNs in the interference area
distributed as PPP with πD0
2λl is quite large, we use πD0
2λl
to represent the number of LNs approximately.
The probability density function (PDF) of the distance D1
between a active LN and the RN is:
fD1(d1) = 2πλrd1e
−λrπ(d1)
2
, (1)
Suppose that an active LN spends time t transmitting
transaction data packets to the RN, so it will generate in-
terferences during time period [-t ,t]. Fig. 3 illustrates that
1192
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Upload Link
Trading Link
…
D2D1
D0
FN
RN
Trading LN
Interference LN
Fig. 2. Wireless communication model of spectrum sharing network.
LNs interfere with each other when their active times overlap
on the timeline. Mathematically, we derive the distribution
of transaction arrival rate which follows the PPP with 2tλa.
Therefore, the active probability of a LN within [-t ,t] is:
Pr(active) = 1− e−2tλa , (2)
The mean value of the number of interference LNs can be
calculated as MI = πD0
2λlPr(active). Since the interference
of interference LN i is Ii(i = 1, 2, . . . ,MI), which is a set
of random variables with independent identically distribution,
the total interference
∑MI
i=1 Ii can be denoted as a normal dis-
tribution N (µi, δi
2), where µi=MIE(Ii) and δi
2=MID(Ii).
Note that µi and δi
2 are the expectation and variance of
variable Ii, respectively. On this basis, let Y =(I -µi)/δi, and
thus Y∼N (0,1). Assume that the transmit power of LNs is
P , the path loss in the process of transaction transmission is
g(d1 ) = d−2 .5 , and the channel’s noise power is σ2, so the
equation of SINR is written as:
SINR =
Pg(d1)
I + σ2
, (3)
We further deduce the transaction successful rate for RN:
Pr = Pr [SINR(D1 = d1, D2) > ϕ]
= Pr
(
I <
Pg(d1)
ϕ
− σ2
)
=
∫ D0
d1=dmin
fD1
(d1)Φ (ξ(d1)) d(d1). (4)
where Φ is the cumulative density function of standard normal
distribution, ξ(d1) = (Pg(d1)ϕ −σ2−µI)/δI , fSINR represents
the PDF of SINR, and fD1
(d1) is given in (1).
Because a local RN receives transactions from all LNs in the
LAN, it’s reasonable to consider the situation within the whole
LAN. Assume that the total number of LNs within a LAN is
M0, and the arrived transaction amount of LN i is Hi during
a period T , which is distributed as the PPP with density λaT .
So we give the total amount of arrived transactions
∑M0
i=1Hi
from M0 LNs. When the transaction throughput reaches the
maximum, the communication throughput in our system is Q .
The length of a transaction packet is L. On this basis, the total
communication throughput Thr = L ·Pr ·H . The final actual
communication throughput Ë is the minimum of Q and Thr :
Ë = min (Thr,Q) . (5)
LN1
LN2
LN3
… …
…
…
…
…
active time idle time
Time
moment Tk active time period t
time period T
moment Tcur
Fig. 3. The time domain distribution of LNs.
B. Reputation Mechanism Construction
The blockchain transaction successful rate reflects the qual-
ity of the channel in which UEs transmit datas and represent
the reputation of users, and the communication throughput can
also express the trust value of users indirectly. Combined with
subjective logic model, we resorts to the historical transaction
successful rate and communication throughput to measure the
reputation of UEs as a basis of spectrum sharing next time,
which means that the previous performances of blockchain
nodes effect their future rewards.
As Fig. 3 shows, Tcur is the current moment of trading
transmission, and Tk is the moment of k -th transmission
between LN i and the specified FN. We set the time decay
factor εk=εTcur−Tk to describe the change in time where
ε∈[0,1] is discount rate and represents the weight of trust [14].
The k -th transaction successful rate Prk measures quality
levels of transmission channels, which can reflect the trust of
the LN. With time passing by, the value of information will
decline in parallel with the loss of evaluation’s significance.
So the time decay factor εk is introduced into the trust value
which is divided into positive trust ri and negative trust si:
ri =
ns∑
k=1
εkPrk, si =
nf∑
k=1
εk (1− Prk) , (6)
where ns = PrHi is the average times of successful transac-
tions between LN i and the specified FN during the period T ,
while nf=(1-Pr )Hi is the average times of failed transactions.
We learnd that subjective logic model ωi={bi, di, ui} is
typically used to settle the matter of trust, where bi, di and
ui respectively represent the degree of trust, distrust and
uncertainty from LN i to specified FN. Because of the nature
that the trust value rise slowly but decline rapidly, the penalty
factor λ is used to reflect the feature. The larger λ is, the higher
punishment degree is. γ is a fixed constant that adjusts the
decay rate. The larger γ is, the slower decay rate is. Therefore,
the subjective logical trust value is detailed as follows [15]:
bi =
ri
ri + λsi + γ
,
di =
λsi
ri + λsi + γ
,
ui =
γ
ri + λsi + γ
.
(7)
1193
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
According to this model, the reliable credit Re and the risk
Rr can be derived:
Re = bi + (1− ρn)ui, Rr = di + ρnui, (8)
From (8), we can see that the reliable credit is not only
determined by trust, but also by uncertainty. Likely, the
risk is made up of distrust and uncertainty. Among them,
n=ns+nf=Hi, 1-ρn and ρn (0≤ρ≤1) are the uncertainty’s
weight of reliable credit and risk, respectively. As n increases,
1-ρn also increases, while ρn decreases on the contrary. So the
transmission is more reliable when more tradings happen.
The total reputation of LN i to the specified FN,
Ri=α (Re −Rr) + β(Ë/Q), is a weighted sum of the actual
reputation (the difference between reliable credit and risk) and
the communication throughput rate (the ratio between actual
throughput and maximum throughput), where α,β∈[0,1] are
the weight of the actual reputation and the communication
throughput rate respectively, and α+β=1. Note that the com-
munication throughput rate can also measure node’s reputation
which means that the higher rate is on behalf of the stronger
process ability of nodes, thus the nodes are more trustworthy.
Finally, the satisfaction level of LN i to specified FN is:
Si(R) =
1
1 + e−ϑ(Ri−REXP )
. (9)
where Si(·) is the Sigmoid function that has been widely
applied in wireless communication to estimate the satisfaction
level of quality of service (QoS) for users. Besides, Si(·) will
be abbreviated to Si later. ϑ is the parameter that determines
the steepness of the satisfaction curve which becomes steeper
with the increase of the parameter ϑ. When ϑ tends to infinity,
the satisfaction becomes a step function with a step at REXP ,
where REXP is the expectation of satisfaction level [16].
Because the total available spectrums are limited, we pro-
vide a satisfaction threshold υ . Only if the LN’s satisfaction
level is higher than threshold, i.e., Si>υ, LNs can participate
in DSS. LNs with low satisfaction level are excluded by the
FN. Assume that the number of LNs meeting above condition
is M , the total allocated spectrum bandwidth of FN is W . We
regulate that the smaller the bandwidth are allocated, the fewer
selected LNs participate in the allocation, a higher satisfaction
threshold shall be set accordingly. Therefore, υ is inversely
proportional to W , i.e., υ = W−τ , where τ is defined as the
inverse parameter.
IV. SPECTRUM ALLOCATION OPTIMIZATION
First of all, UEs, base stations and SMSs of MNO build
their own identity information by adopting the methods of
elliptic curve digital signature algorithm and asymmetric en-
cryption. When spectrum tradings are launched, UEs as spec-
trum requesters and the selected SMS as the spectrum owner
forward request and sale information to local ES, respectively.
Then the ES verifies the identity information of both parties
and validates their legitimacy. In the process of allocation,
Stackelberg game carried out on the ES plays a significant
role in achieving the balance between UEs and the SMS,
which aims at obtaining the optimal unit price and amount
of available bandwidth for each user. Allocation results will
return to and store in the UEs. After completing the spectrum
trading, the ES collects spectrum coins as virtual currency
from the spectrum requesters and transfers them to the virtual
wallet of the spectrum owner based on smart contracts.
According to the satisfaction level of different LNs and the
actual income and expenditure of spectrum buyers and sellers,
we design the following formulas respectively to represent the
utility of different nodes [17].
The utility of LN i reflects its own satisfaction level and
the cost of spectrum purchase:
Ui(pi, wi) = Silog2
(
1 +
wi
mi
)
− piwi. (10)
where mi = SiW/
∑M
i=1 Si represents the maximum band-
width that LN i can be allocated. Gi(wi) = log2(1+wi/mi) is
the gain of satisfaction level, which reveals the non-satiation,
i.e.,
dGi
dwi
> 0, and risk aversion, i.e.,
dGi
2
dwi2
< 0, from the
perspective of economics. If the allocated spectrum wi=0, the
gain is zero; If wi=mi, the gain reaches value 1, and the
satisfaction converts into utility thoroughly. pi expresses the
unit price of spectrum leased from the specified FN to LN i .
The utility of specified FN reflects income of leasing spectrum:
UF (pi, wi) =
M∑
i=1
piwi. (11)
Since all nodes are selfish entities that intend to maximize
their own utilities, this paper adopts the idea of Stackelberg
game to negotiate the spectrum bandwidth allocated to each
trading LN, as well as the unit price of spectrum bandwidth.
The specified FN, as the game leader, primarily proposes
the unit price and total idle spectrum bandwidths. Then, the
trading LNs as followers obtain different spectrum bandwidth
on the basis of their own satisfaction level, and works out the
most appropriate bandwidth unit price with the specified FN.
Intuitively, trading LNs and the specified FN generate different
optimization objectives.
Purchasing game of the trading LNs:
max Ui(pi, wi) (12a)
s.t. C1 : 0 < wi ≤ mi,∀i ∈M (12b)
C2 : Si > υ,∀i ∈M. (12c)
Pricing game of the specified FN:
max UF (p,w) (13a)
s.t. C3 :
M∑
i=1
wi ≤W. (13b)
Constraint C1 illustrates that the spectrum bandwidth ob-
tained by each LN is restricted by explicit upper and lower
bounds. Constraint C2 indicates that each LN’s satisfaction
level must be higher than the threshold. Constraint C3 means
that the total spectrum amount obtained by the LNs does not
1194
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Algorithm 1 Reputation Enabled Optimal DSS Algorithm
Input: System basic parameters and total bandwidth W .
Output: Optimal unit price p∗i and bandwidth w∗
i of LN i
(i∈M ), and maximal utility of the FN UF .
1: Calculate transaction successful rate Pr of each transac-
tion and communication throughput Ë during previous
time T based on (5) and (7), respectively.
2: Integrate with subjective logic model (11), derive the
satisfaction level Si of all active LNs according to (15).
3: Select the trading LNs which meet the restriction Si > υ
and set the number of trading LNs as M based on (16).
4: According to Si, give the utility of LN i Ui and the utility
of FN UF based on (17) and (18).
5: Based on Lagrange multipliers to maximize Ui , deduce
the optimal allocated bandwidth w∗
i of each LN in (21).
6: Based on w∗
i to maximize UF , deduce the optimal spec-
trum unit price p∗i in (22).
7: Compute UF with w∗
i and p∗i according to (18).
8: return w∗
i , p∗i , UF .
exceed the total amount allocated by the specified FN [18].
Stackelberg Equilibrium: When the unit price of spectrum and
available bandwidth for each LN are continually changing, the
utilities of both parties are no longer increasing, the game
achieves equilibrium, and the unit price and bandwidth that
make utilities reach maximum is the equilibrium point. The
existence of equilibrium is also proved in [9].
Theorem 1: Because purchasing game of the trading LNs
is a convex optimization problem, it can be dealt with by dis-
cussing the dual problem, which recurs to Lagrange multipliers
in parallel with Karush-Kuhn-Tucker (KKT) condition. The
optimal solution of purchasing game of the trading LNs is
wi ∈ w∗, ∀i ∈M :
w∗
i =

Si
piln2
−mi, if
∑M
i=1 Si
2Wln2
< pi <
∑M
i=1 Si
Wln2
,
mi, if pi ≤
∑M
i=1 Si
2Wln2
.
(14)
Theorem 2: Based on the given w∗
i in Theorem 1, the
optimal solution of pricing game of the specified FN is pi ∈
p∗, ∀i ∈M :
p∗i =
∑M
i=1 Si
2Wln2
, when w∗
i = mi =
SiW∑M
i=1 Si
. (15)
The overall steps of reputation enabled optimal DSS algo-
rithm are stated in Algorithm 1.
V. SIMULATION RESULTS
We refer to [9] for comparison to verify the proposed
scheme. All parameters are summarized as Table I [11].
Fig. 4 depicts the spectrum allocation of our proposed
scheme in terms of satisfaction level on LNs. With the limited
spectrum bandwidths, the number of active LNs (tandem dots)
which paticipate in tradings grows as the transaction arrival
rate increases. In addition, we can see that MNO allocates
TABLE I
SIMULATION PARAMETERS
Parameter Value
The radius of interference area D0 50 m
LN transmit power P 20 dBm
Total time T 10000 s
Transaction packet length L 256 bits
Noise power σ2 -104 dBm
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13
Distribution of transaction arrival rate (TPS) ×10
-4
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
S
a
ti
s
fa
c
ti
o
n
 l
e
v
e
l 
o
n
 L
N
s
threshold=0.39
Fig. 4. Diagram of the spectrum allocation in the proposed scheme. The
number of active LNs (denoted as tandem dots) grows with the transaction
arrival rate, while the node with the low satisfactory score (marked as the red
dots) is excluded from the spectrum allocation.
idle spectrum to LNs whose satisfaction levels are above the
threshold (blue dots). But LNs is exculded by DSS when their
satisfaction levels can’t exceed the threshold (red dots).
The relationship between LNs with different satisfaction
level and its corresponding allocated spectrum is shown in
Fig. 5. Based on the fixed total bandwidth W , it’s obvious that
when the unit price is 0.11, all LNs can obtain the maximal
bandwidth. While the unit price raises, LNs aren’t able to
buy more bandwidth. In addition, the trading LN with higher
satisfaction level is allocated more spectrum under the same
unit price, which is in line with the original intention of our
mechanism design.
We can observe from Fig. 6 that the utility of FN is 0
when the total bandwidth is lower than 2 MHz, because the
total spectrum bandwidth is not enough adequate for any
LNs to share. When the total bandwidth is higher than 4
MHz, the uniform pricing scheme in this paper maximizes the
utility of the specified FN, which is better than other schemes
[9]. And with the increase of W , the number of trading
LNs also increases so that they bring more benefits to FN.
When the total bandwidth is large enough, all LNs requesting
spectrum can receive responses, so the utility of FN reaches
the maximum and no longer increases, which indicates that the
FN’s optimal utility isn’t affected by the total bandwidth W ,
but relevant to the number of LNs and the sum of satisfaction
level of all trading LNs.
1195
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
LN1 with 0.4 LN2 with 0.45 LN3 with 0.5 LN4  with 0.55 LN5 with 0.6
LNs with different satisfaction level
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
A
ll
o
ca
te
d
 s
p
ec
tr
u
m
 (
M
H
z)
p=0.11
p=0.15
p=0.19
Fig. 5. Allocated spectrum versus satisfaction level. When the total bandwidth
is fixed, the lower unit price results in more allocated bandwidth. When the
unit price is fixed, LN with higher satisfaction level priors to more bandwidth.
VI. CONCLUSION
In this paper, we have proposed a reputation mechanism
designed for blockchain empowered DSS system, where spec-
trum tradings can be recorded clearly in IoT networks under
the protection of blockchain. To weaken the influence of
deep decay in time-varying channel, the reputation mechanism
based on historical transaction successful rate, communication
throughput as well as subjective logic model, guarantees that
the trading LN with higer satisfaction level gives priority to
obtain more bandwidths. Moreover, the adoption of Stackel-
berg game ensures the optimal spectrum bandwidth and unit
price of each LN, which aims at maximizing the utilities of
the spectrum owner and requesters. At last, simulations prove
that our proposed scheme is superior to the existing scheme
in terms of payoff utilities.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The work presented in this paper is partly funded by the
National Natural Science Foundation of China No. 61871045,
China Postdoctoral Science Foundation Funded Project No.
2021M690470.
REFERENCES
[1] J. Pastirčák, J. Gazda and D. Kocur, “A survey on the spectrum trading
in dynamic spectrum access networks,” Proceedings ELMAR-2014, pp.
1-4, 2014.
[2] T. Maksymyuk et al., “Blockchain-empowered framework for decentral-
ized network management in 6G,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol.
58, no. 9, pp. 86-92, Sept. 2020.
[3] M. Tahir, M. H. Habaebi, M. Dabbagh, A. Mughees, A. Ahad and K.
I. Ahmed, “A review on application of blockchain in 5G and beyond
networks: taxonomy, field-trials, challenges and opportunities,” IEEE
Access, vol. 8, pp. 115876-115904, 2020.
[4] J. Lin, B. Tian, J. Wu and J. He, “Spectrum resource trading and
radio management data sharing based on blockchain,” 2020 IEEE 3rd
International Conference on Information Systems and Computer Aided
Education (ICISCAE), pp. 83-87, 2020.
[5] C. Sengul, “Distributed ledgers for spectrum authorization,” IEEE Inter-
net Computing, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 7-18, 1 May-Jun. 2020.
[6] M. Grissa, A. A. Yavuz, B. Hamdaoui and C. Tirupathi, “Anonymous
dynamic spectrum access and sharing mechanisms for the CBRS band,”
IEEE Access, vol. 9, pp. 33860-33879, 2021.
0 5 10 15 20 25
The total allocated spectrum bandwidth W (MHz)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
U
ti
li
ty
 o
f 
F
N
Optimal Uniform pricing 
Nonuniform pricing 
Uniform pricing in [9] 
Nonuniform pricing in [9]
All LNs
0 LN
Fig. 6. Utility of FN versus the total allocated spectrum bandwidth. When
the total bandwidth is enough to allocate, the FN of our scheme can achieve
the highest utility in optimal uniform pricing.
[7] M. Patnaik, G. Prabhu, C. Rebeiro, V. Matyas and K. Veezhinathan,
“ProBLeSS: A proactive blockchain based spectrum sharing protocol
against SSDF attacks in cognitive radio IoBT networks,” IEEE Net-
working Letters, vol. 2, no. 2, pp. 67-70, Jun. 2020.
[8] H. Tangsen, X. Li and X. Ying, “A blockchain-based node selection
algorithm in cognitive wireless networks,” IEEE Access, vol. 8, pp.
207156-207166, 2020.
[9] J. Qiu, D. Grace, G. Ding, J. Yao and Q. Wu, “Blockchain-based secure
spectrum trading for unmanned-aerial-vehicle-assisted cellular networks:
An operator’s perspective,” IEEE Internet of Things Journal, vol. 7, no.
1, pp. 451-466, Jan. 2020.
[10] K. Kotobi and S. G. Bilen, “Secure Blockchains for Dynamic Spectrum
Access: A Decentralized Database in Moving Cognitive Radio Networks
Enhances Security and User Access,” in IEEE Vehicular Technology
Magazine, vol. 13, no. 1, pp. 32-39, Mar. 2018.
[11] Y. Sun, L. Zhang, G. Feng, B. Yang, B. Cao and M. A. Imran,
“Blockchain-enabled wireless Internet of Things: Performance analysis
and optimal communication node deployment,” IEEE Internet of Things
Journal, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 5791-5802, Jun. 2019.
[12] N. C. Luong, T. T. Anh, H. T. Thanh Binh, D. Niyato, D. I. Kim
and Y. -C. Liang, “Joint transaction transmission and channel selection
in cognitive radio based blockchain networks: A deep reinforcement
learning approach,” ICASSP 2019 - 2019 IEEE International Conference
on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP), pp. 8409-8413,
2019.
[13] A. Palai, M. Vora and A. Shah, “Empowering Light Nodes in
Blockchains with Block Summarization,” 2018 9th IFIP International
Conference on New Technologies, Mobility and Security (NTMS), pp.
1-5, 2018.
[14] F. Guo, F. R. Yu, H. Zhang, H. Ji, M. Liu and V. C. M. Leung, “Adaptive
Resource Allocation in Future Wireless Networks With Blockchain and
Mobile Edge Computing,” in IEEE Transactions on Wireless Commu-
nications, vol. 19, no. 3, pp. 1689-1703, Mar. 2020.
[15] X. Ma, Z. Wang, F. Liu and J. Bian, “A trust model based on the
extended subjective logic for P2P networks,” 2010 2nd International
Conference on E-business and Information System Security, pp. 1-4,
2010.
[16] S. Bayat, R. H. Y. Louie, Z. Han, B. Vucetic and Y. Li, “Distributed
user association and femtocell allocation in heterogeneous wireless
networks,” IEEE Transactions on Communications, vol. 62, no. 8, pp.
3027-3043, Aug. 2014.
[17] X. Kang and Y. Wu, “Incentive mechanism design for heterogeneous
Peer-to-Peer networks: A Stackelberg game approach,” IEEE Transac-
tions on Mobile Computing, vol. 14, no. 5, pp. 1018-1030, 1 May. 2015.
[18] G. Qiao, S. Leng, H. Chai, A. Asadi and Y. Zhang, “Blockchain
empowered resource trading in mobile edge computing and networks,”
ICC 2019 - 2019 IEEE International Conference on Communications
(ICC), pp. 1-6, 2019.
1196
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:49:52 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.