Freedom and Restraint in Dark Forest: A Peek at the Metaverse Through a Blockchain Game
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS 1
Freedom and Restraint in Dark Forest: A Peek at
the Metaverse Through a Blockchain Game
Nanjun Yao, Zexin Lin, Student Member, IEEE, Xiao Wu, Member, IEEE, and Lin Wang
Abstract— Dark forest (DF) is the first successful decentralized
real-time strategy (RTS) game. Based on smart contracts, the
game explores the application possibilities of new technologies,
and prefigures the operation of the social system in the metaverse
era. In this study, we collect on-chain data from DF, map player
behavior, and discuss players’ game asset management, combat
strategies in extreme mode, and the game’s exit mechanism.
We believe that blockchain games, such as DF, can be viewed as a
new technological space with metaverse characteristics, in which
individuals art free to challenge centralized social structures
using decentralized technology while subjected to more secret
postmodern social surveillance.
Index Terms— Blockchain game, computing sociology, dark
forest (DF), metaverse, postmodern sociology.
I. INTRODUCTION
W ITH the support of blockchain technologies, the meta-
verse [1] has become the hottest topic in the Web31
community worldwide. Many researchers in both industry and
academia have been attracted by this new decentralized digital
society. Moreover, digital games, particularly massive multi-
player online (MMO) games, have been widely studied from
cultural and social perspectives. Their influence on players
and the influence of players on games has been confirmed by
many studies. Players’ behavior can differ according to the
game genre owing to distinct player groups and game rules.
Then, these characteristics can reflect the social systems that
arise in the context of the game’s regulations to an extent.
Therefore, Web3 games, also known as blockchain games [2],
become an ideal subject for social studies on metaverse, given
the metaverse is yet to be constructed. Built on smart contracts
hosted by blockchains, Web3 games support cryptocurrencies
Manuscript received 15 July 2022; revised 21 September 2022; accepted
28 September 2022. This work was supported by the Guangzhou Academy
of Fine Arts (GAFA) Academic Improvement Plan under Project 21XSB37.
(Corresponding author: Lin Wang.)
Nanjun Yao and Zexin Lin are with the Guangzhou Academy of Fine
Arts, Guangzhou 510006, China, and also with the School of Science and
Engineering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shenzhen 518172, China
(e-mail: nanjunyao@link.cuhk.edu.cn; zexinlin@link.cuhk.edu.cn).
Xiao Wu is with White Matrix Inc., Nanjing 210000, China (e-mail:
wuxiao@whitematrix.io).
Lin Wang is with the Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts,
Guangzhou 510006, China (e-mail: zeotuqi@foxmail.com).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCSS.2022.3215885
1Web3 is a concept of the next generation for the Internet, which aims to
shift power from large corporations to individual users. The core concepts
of the Internet before Web3 are Web2 and Web1. Web2 refers to rich web
applications, web-oriented architectures, and social webs, and Web1 is a
content delivery network (CDN) that enables the display of information on
websites.
and non-fungible tokens (NFTs) that belong to players, and the
game rules are decentralized, trusted, and transparent. There-
fore, the player groups in traditional MMO and Web3 games
do not appear to have a high degree of overlap currently, which
may lead to different network ecologies. Here, we leverage
Web3 games to conduct preliminary studies on the future
society of the Metaverse.
We select dark forest (DF),2 which is a Web3 real-time
strategy (RTS) game, as the study subject. DF is a space-
conquest MMO game built on the Gnosis Chain,3 and an
Ethereum4-compatible sidechain, with zero-knowledge cryp-
tography. Players begin with a home planet and expand their
territory by capturing new planets. The game universe is
infinite and cryptographically specified. Throughout the con-
quest, players can level up, capture another player’s planets,
and collect NFT collectibles. We collected user behavior data
from DF t o provide an in-depth analysis and visualization
of player behavior. We focus on the characteristics of player
behavior as reflected by time-series data, player group seg-
mentation in specific game and technical contexts, and how
these characteristics reflect the game’s simulation of reality.
We analyze the number of daily active addresses, functions
invoked by users, and the breakdown of specific functions
invoked by users to reflect player behavior. In addition, we use
K -means clustering and the elbow method to classify user
groups and discuss user behavior in different clusters. Overall,
by analyzing discussions concerning DF, we aim at answering
five research questions and contributing the following.
RQ1: How does DF integrate decentralized cultural tech-
nologies into gameplay?
To answer this question, we analyzed the underlying logic
principles and surface game design of the game, clarified that
DF considers both technicality and playability and balances
decentralization technology and personal asset privacy, and
proved that DF has advantages over other Ponzi games.
RQ2: What are the game dynamics?
To answer RQ2, we split it into four sub-questions: RQ2.1:
Can players be categorized? RQ2.2: How do players man-
age their in-game assets? RQ2.3: How do players survive
the game’s wars? RQ2.4: What are players’ End-of-Game
Strategy? We captured the on-chain game data, analyzed the
most representative first round, and used the data to describe
2https://zkga.me
3https://www.gnosischain.com/
4https://ethereum.org
2329-924X © 2022 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
https://orcid.org/0000-0002-3631-2669
2 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
player types, action patterns, strategic decisions in normal and
extreme situations, and the different resource backgrounds of
player participation. Based on this, we considered the player
on observation coordinate, discussed the rules of the game and
the operating characteristics that evolve from it and identified
the inner and outer soical driving forces of the game.
RQ3: What type of sociological imagination does the game
present?
By combining the data analysis results, we verified the
decentralized game space and fluid player identities in a post-
modern society and established a specific connection between
blockchain games and postmodern sociological theory.
The main contribution of this study is to leverage
Web3 games to illustrate, through behavioral analysis, how
individuals balance resources between long-term goals and
short-term development at different development stages in a
game-simulated environment, as well as the strategies adopted
in via individual development. We concluded that human
behavior tends to agree across environments.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows. We first
review related work in Section II. Subsequently, we present the
data processing methodology in Section III. We analyze results
in Section IV, and Section VI concludes this article.
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
A. Dark Forest (DF)
The concept of a DF was proposed in The Three-Body
Problem by Cixin Liu, a Chinese science-fiction writer. In the
book, the DF refers to a universe where every civilization is
a hunter carrying a shotgun. This metaphor in the book was
used to state the impossibility of achieving peace, as the speed
of information cannot surpass the speed of light; therefore,
normal communication channels cannot be built. The DF
game named itself after this concept to indicate that its world
is similar to that in Liu’s novel. The purpose of the DF
game is to build a free, fair, and resource-limited MMO
game in which the prerequisites of the “DF” hypothesis can
be fulfilled. Following its release, DF received high praises
from game bloggers and critics, with the general consensus
being that this game introduced innovative manners of earning
cryptocurrency within a virtual ecosystem [3] and realizing a
creative in-game genre [4], [5].
B. Social Studies on Online Games
Increased academic attention on video games has led to
discussions on MMO games as a micro model for social
studies [6], [7]. Relationships between the gaming and real
worlds have effectively engaged players in social and cultural
issues, both from an inside-outward perspective in terms of
effective action and from an outside-inward perspective in
terms of realistic representation [8]. MMO games such as
Second Life were viewed as a new frontier of human life,
as they concern issues of gender, race, sex, money, conflict
and antisocial behavior, the construction of place and time,
and the interplay of the self and the group [9]. Several studies
on MMO games have shown how gameplay elements can
extend beyond the game realm, introducing a better under-
standing of human dynamics. For example, Woods argued
that social-system simulation games effectively combine roles,
rules, and other gameplay elements to replicate existing social
systems, thereby placing participants “within” the experience
to facilitate a greater understanding of the dynamic forces
that shape society [10]. Ross and Collister [11] combined
the Williams mapping principle and a modern theoretical
account of human decision-making to explore how a theory
about individual interactions in well-defined contexts (games)
can explain collective behavior. Guitton [12] noted how
immersive virtual settings function as new “spaces of life.”
Chen et al. [13] conducted a social organization study by
considering game worlds as ecosystems consisting of evolving
guilds and proving how guild life cycles reflect game world
characteristics. Recent studies have demonstrated a particu-
larly valuable investigation area. However, most games have
been Web2 products, and we are confronting the emergence
of Web3 social innovation in the post-pandemic era. With the
rise of blockchain technology, the underlying design of Web3
games has changed and questioning how a game connects with
its broader techno-cultural subjectivities, as well as to what
extent, is natural.
C. Blockchain Games and Zero-Knowledge Succinct
Non-Interactive Argument of Knowledge (zk-SNARKs)
Blockchain games are collective games built as decentral-
ized applications on the blockchain [14]. Blockchain games
have been developed since the debut of CryptoKitties5 in
2017. Most blockchain game developers and researchers have
prioritized the economy and rewards within the game; thus,
digital assets such as cryptocurrencies and NFTs have become
the major interest in blockchain games. Similarly, this has led
to the majority of blockchain games being based on the play-
to-earn (P2E) economic model [15]. Ponzi structures and pyra-
mids formed the first exploration of some of the unique game
designs that Ethereum enables [16]. The increasing number
of comments and reports have highlighted the fraud issue in
the P2E game ecosystem [17], [18], [19]. Furthermore, many
blockchain games are currently limited by the blockchain
functionality, financial structure of the game trading system,
and technical level of the game engine. Therefore, blockchain
games struggle to compete with traditional online game prod-
ucts because they lack entertainment and playability [20].
Owing to these difficulties, blockchain game research remains
immature.
An important technique for facilitating Web3 games is the
zk-SNARKs [21]. It is a cryptographic proof that allows a
party to prove its possession of certain information without
revealing that information. In Web3 games, zk-SNARKs have
become important because we do not want to rely on a cen-
tralized third party to make judgments, and because we want
the smart contract to be transparent to the public. zk-SNARKs
are a foundation of DF implementation. The DF game builds
a zk-SNARKs system that is sufficiently efficient for MMO
5https://www.cryptokitties.co/
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YAO et al.: FREEDOM AND RESTRAINT IN DF: A PEEK AT THE METAVERSE THROUGH A BLOCKCHAIN GAME 3
games to use, thereby enabling fog-of-war gameplay, which
distinguishes DF from other blockchain games.
III. METHODOLOGY
This study applied both qualitative and quantitative analysis
methods. In this section, we discuss our data source, data
analysis, and other methods we used.
A. Data Source
The dynamics of DF involve expanding and capturing plan-
ets while receiving corresponding rewards. Players explore the
universe and broaden their territory using computing power.
The most important requirement for victory is the occupation
of as many planets as possible. Occupying a planet requires
sending energy, and four factors determine the amount of
energy available to the player: the amount of energy sent,
the distance, the range, and the planet’s energy limit. After
occupying the planet, players can mine artifacts and receive
victory rewards each round of the game. Artifacts and rewards
are distributed in the form of an NFT.
DF has been played for four seasons and eight rounds.
The data we collected originated from the fifth round of the
v0.6 season of DF. When compared with other rounds, the fifth
round has the most complete design of the game mechanism
for most players, providing DF with a better sense of simulated
reality. Further reasons are listed as follows.
1) Compared with previous versions, v0.6 gradually
became a complete blockchain game: a specific context
and worldview emerged, an achievement list is on the
Ether-main net, NFTs can be deposited or withdrawn
from the Ether, and the conditions for players to advance
to the next round are clear.
2) More players participated in this round than in all
previous rounds, enabling us to collect more relevant
data.
3) The typical power struggles and dramatic endings with a
negotiation between player alliances and alliance infight-
ing in this round can help us in the qualitative analysis.
B. Data Analysis
In this section, we describe the data collection, data pre-
processing, feature extraction, and the methods used to analyze
the data.
1) Data Collection: All data on player behavior were col-
lected from the Gnosis Blockchain RFC endpoints. By sending
requests to the endpoint block-by-block, the endpoint returned
the data of that block on the Gnosis Chain. As DF is not alone
on the Gnosis chain, we do not need to access all transactions
and blocks. We reject these by attempting to decode the data
using the game data structure. If the decoding process fails,
then the current block is invalid. Because of the network
instabilities, we specify a range of block addresses (250) to
fetch each time. The data fetched from the Gnosis Chain are
extracted as a JSON structure; for the current transaction, the
“to” field indicates the receiver address, “from” indicates the
sender address, “time” indicates the timestamp, “name” indi-
cates the operation performed, “param,” “type,” and “value”
fields indicate some additional information attached to the per-
formed operation, “blockNumber” indicates the block height
of the block containing the current transaction, and “gasPrice”
and “gasUsed” are the gas price and gas used in the current
transaction.
{
"to ": "0x5da117b8aB8b739346F5EdC166789E5aFb1a7145,"
"from": "0x0C6B6A25f2bf0d15fB9CfF9BE80d28F69964655E,"
"time": 1645243375,
"name": "transferOwnership ,"
"params": [
{
"name": "_newOwner,"
"value ": "0x5d99805ca2867f22a318c4e6b0dc5c0eac457386 ,"
"type ": "address"
}
] ,
"blockNumber": 20713470,
"type": 2,
"value ": {
"type ": "BigNumber,"
"hex": "0x00"
},
"gasPrice": {
"type ": "BigNumber,"
"hex": "0x77359400"
},
"gasUsed": {
"type ": "BigNumber,"
"hex": "0x038359"
}
}
2) Data Preprocessing: We preprocess the data from the
time dimension to analyze it from a macro perspective in two
directions: the overall trend of the entire season and the player
behavior of subgroups. To construct the time series, we must
preprocess and clean the data extracted. From the blockchain,
we obtained functions called at a certain address at a certain
time and their parameters. Subsequently, we wrote them in
the dictionary according to each operation. We obtained a
data structure: {player address, time, params[{functions called,
function-related parameters”}, . . .], . . .}.
3) Feature Extraction: First, we extracted the function call
addresses of each individual from the contract and then process
the function calls in both time-series and clustering directions.
In the time-series direction, the function utility cases are
rearranged in the form of a time. For example, the address
0x000. . . . . . .7A is initialized by calling initializePlayer at t0
and moves for a move, and another move at t1. We record the
operation at this address in the new format: 0x00. . . .cF7A:
[initializePlayer 1, move 1], [move 1]. Here, each time period
(t1, t2, t3, . . . . . .) is divided into one day, 1 h, and half hour
as required. Based on this data framework, we followed two
directions for feature depiction, i.e., time-series and player
cluster features. In the time-series feature analysis, the number
of operations for each time period was extracted as required.
For example, if the goal is all operations, the result is the
[number of operations for t1, number of operations for t2],
and if the target is moved with only one player 0x000. . . .7A,
the result is [1, 1]. In the player cluster feature direction,
in addition to maintaining the previous data processing results,
we accumulate the data of all the corresponding positions
of individual players. In the clustering direction, we cluster
some parameters of the functions separately. For example, with
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
4 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
three types of upgrades and address 0x000. . . .7A being called
times, data is available for five types of upgrade parameters.
Of these, types 0, 1, and 2 are called 0, 0, and 1 times,
respectively, in the first time period, and 2, 1, and 1 times,
respectively, in the second time period. The data is then
processed as follows: 0x00. . . .cF7A: [0,0,1], [2,1,1]. Based on
this, the data is processed in both time-series and player cluster
feature directions. In the time series feature analysis, the data
of all players corresponding to their positions is accumulated
and finally structured as data in the form of [[kind 0 at t1, kind
1 at t1, kind 2 at t1], [kind 0 at t2, kind 1 at t2, kind 2 at t2],
[. . .], . . .]. In the player cluster feature analysis, the data of all
corresponding positions of a single player are accumulated to
obtain a data structure in the shape of 0x00. . . .cF7A: [number
of kinds 0, number of kinds 1, number of kinds 2].
4) Clustering: The K -means algorithm originates from a
vector quantization method in signal processing and is used
here as a cluster analysis method for data analysis and classifi-
cation [22]. K -means clustering was implemented by dividing
n points into k clusters such that each point belongs to the
cluster corresponding to the nearest mean (i.e., cluster center),
which is used as the clustering criterion. We performed clus-
tering with a varying number of clusters using the K -means
algorithm and iterated over the number of iterations clusters.
The elbow method and contour coefficients were used together
to determine the k values, with different parameters taking the
best values in different data divisions.
C. Other Research Methodologies
In our analysis, we also paid attention to non-data factors
that affect the game wins and losses. The objects of concern
include activities in the game guild, public opinion on social
media, and game meta-narratives. We used text analysis meth-
ods to process the corresponding material.
IV. FINDINGS
A. RQ1 (DF as a Maturing Cultural Product of the
Metaverse)
Decentralized technology constructs the underlying logic of
DF. Excellent imagination and game rule design constitute the
game’s surface appearance. These contribute to creating a safe
and sustainable Metaverse cultural product.
1) Weaving zk-SNARKs Into Core Game Mechanics: DF
draws on Liu’s science-fiction setting and transforms cosmic
jungle law into a playable space conquest game. The universe
is vast and unknown. Accordingly, DF combines decentral-
ized technology, weaving survival techniques into the core
game mechanics. DF is a decentralized RTS game based on
zk-SNARKs. As an incomplete information game, the initial
planets of all players in the game are located in the fog
of war. Players are required to calculate the hash value of
the hardware to penetrate the fog of war and obtain cosmic
information. Players lack access to other player’s cards until
all fog of war is cleared. Simultaneously, the decentralized
system is completely open and transparent in the design of
the data layer. Every operation can be seen on the chain,
and the coordinates of planets are unobstructed. To create an
incomplete information game environment, zk-SNARKs plays
a key role: players move from points a to b without providing
the actual coordinate information to the core contract; they
must only provide valid proof of the player’s movement.
This ensures that the player’s coordinates are not exposed
and guarantees the narrative integration of the entire game.
zk-SNARKs achieve this through a cleverly designed proof
method based on polynomial equations. If someone claims
that they have knowledge of a certain equation y, this can be
verified by providing a random number sequence that matches
the coefficients of the equation accordingly and calculating
the result. If the result is the same as that of the verifier,
then the possibility is almost 100% possibility that the verifier
actually has knowledge of the equation [23]. DF balances
the transparency principle of decentralized technology with
the privacy principle necessary for games to protect personal
identities and assets from being regulated. This is the most
culturally significant innovation of DF in terms of game
design: it uses new technologies for its design game and
mediates the democratic character of new technologies in
culturally and sociologically innovative manners.
2) Decentralized Variant of Space-Oriented Strategy Game:
Compared with Web2 games, DF weakens the game’s narrative
while strengthening the individual’s sovereignty over virtual
assets. At the game value level, DF adheres to some funda-
mental frames established by Master of Orion (1993) and Sid
Meier’s classic turn-based concept, as well as player activities
focused on conquering and controlling planets. In this regard,
DF is similar to other space-expansion games, with techno-
logical progress and colonialism serving as consistent cultural
drivers. The difference is that the playability of DF lies in the
financialization of conquering planets instead of an immersive
story experience. DF barely has a storyline; DF borrowed
the background setting from Liu Cixin’s novel, that is, any
civilization that exposes its position is quickly destroyed [24].
Beyond the setting, DF has no roles to play or narratives to
follow. In terms of visual design, DF differs from simulation
games such as Star Conflict and Eve Online by employing
a low-poly minimalist appearance. The player’s enjoyment
is reflected in the complete control over game assets, which
means that players can obtain NFT rewards by conquering
and controlling planets and instantly convert virtual assets into
actual income through in-game transactions.
B. RQ2.1 (In-Game Player Behavior)
To describe in-game player behavior more precisely, we sep-
arated players into four groups based on their activity in
game. This activity was measured according to the number
of functions called.
Fig. 1 shows the percentages of these four player groups
based on activity. The percentage shown around the pie chart
is the group category label. These groups were evenly divided.
We ranked all players according to the number of functions
called. Then, we evenly split them into four categories with
each category containing 25% of the player population. Very
high indicates that this group is ranked the highest. Low indi-
cates the bottom group. We then summed the total number of
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YAO et al.: FREEDOM AND RESTRAINT IN DF: A PEEK AT THE METAVERSE THROUGH A BLOCKCHAIN GAME 5
Fig. 1. Percentage of functions called by four different player groups based
on activity.
Fig. 2. Categorized function call curve.
functions called in each category and calculated the percentage
of the population. By grouping the players according to their
activity. We further analyzed the behavior of each group.
From the chart, a large percentage of players minimally
contribute to the total number of function calls: 31% of
players executed only 25% of the function calls. Higher on the
leaderboard, we can see an increasing trend for the number
of serious players who actively participate in the game and
contribute more function calls with fewer people. This trend
is observed in many MMO games. In DF, this “activeness”
can be interpreted as expansion ambition. Most civilizations
are happy with owning only one planet and have a limited
interest in conquering other planets, and few civilizations are
eager to obtain more resources to strengthen themselves.
By separating the entire community into four categories
with equal numbers of players and ranking them by their
level of activity, the comparison of these groups demonstrates
relatively small gaps between the four tiers. Even the most and
least active players show a difference of 11% in their number
of functions called. We believe that this indicates that DF is
a game that could effectively cultivate user loyalty. Thus, the
bottleneck for enhancing DF’s community size may lie in its
high threshold: only users that completed a lengthy application
process can access the game.
Fig. 2 shows the position of the four activity levels. We plot-
ted the number of functions called against time for all four
player groups. The top 100% line represents the function count
of all players, the top 75% is the function count for the top
Fig. 3. Amount of function calls on each function from four player groups.
75% of active players, etc. The height between two lines is the
number of the function called by players in that group. Note
that the number of function calls decreases as time increases.
Players in the lower quartile, represented by the area between
the blue top 100% and orange 75% lines account only for a
small percentage of function calls. In addition, we observed
an increase over time in the number of functions called by the
lower quartile (top 100%–top 75%) of players and a decrease
in the number of functions called by the other three quartiles.
Fig. 3 shows the function call amount with respect to each
individual functions. We can see a clear difference in the
function call patterns between elite players and normal players.
Lower-quartile players particularly like to withdraw silver
and withdraw artifacts, while elite players capture and invade
planets much more often. Withdraw silver and artifacts could
be considered a “peaceful” way to develop the civilization.
In contrast, capture and invade are obviously a violent way to
gain points. Both ways are valid point-earning methods set by
the game rules, but there is a clear pattern that elite players are
much more likely to choose a violent way to fight against other
players. These differences between player activeness groups
could be considered when designing similar games.
C. RQ2.2 (Player Resource Management)
In the game, all players have the following assets: planets,
spaceships, energy, and silver. In addition, most players have
access to artifacts. Silver and energy are two basic resources
and can be continuously produced on planets. Energy is
consumed to invade and move. Silver is consumed to improve
attributes or obtain scores. A cap and growth rate are related to
the type and level of the planet, which means that upgrading
planets can increase both rates. In this section, we analyze
the cumulative distribution function (cdf) in terms of the time
of energy consumed and silver transferred during movement,
as well as trends in the number of people and operations in
each interval. Then, we can depict player behavioral charac-
teristics in resource management at a macro level. We focus
on the division of time periods according to the trend of the
function curve and trend nodes and elaborate on the data
changes during each time period in relation to the game
environment and the player behavior at this time.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
6 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
Fig. 4. CDF of energy consumed in move.
Fig. 5. CDF of silver transformed in move.
1) Energy: Fig. 4 is the cdf of energy consumed in a move.
It shows the time series of energy consumed in moving. Based
on the nodes of significant changes in the function of the
figure, we separate it into four stages of energy consumption:
0–12 h, 12–72 h, 72–144 h, and 144 h–end. This can also
be considered as the three phases of the S-curve rapidly
concluding and entering steady growth. Note that acceleration
occurs at the end. The number of moves and of players
who made a move gradually declined with time. Of all the
stages, the first stage has the most operations and engaged
players, with each move consuming a considerable amount.
In this stage, 20% of the total energy is consumed for one-
tenth of the total duration. In the second stage, after a short
break, the consumption becomes greater than before. At the
end of this stage, approximately 60% of the total energy is
consumed. In the third stage, each consumption decreases, and
each person’s consumption increases. In the last stage, a steep
increase in average consumption per person first occurs. The
overall fluctuation is greater than in the third stage, and the
energy consumption is higher by 20%.
2) Silver: Fig. 5 is the cdf of silver transformations in a
move. It shows the time series of silver transferred. Based
on the nodes of significant changes in the function of the
figure, we separate it into three stages of silver moves: 0–24 h,
24–168 h, and 168–end. Compared with the energy consump-
tion, the average volume per move is relatively flat except for
a steep increase at the end, and the numbers of moves and
players have downward trends. In the first stage, the volume
of movement and silver transferred per movement are high.
The number of players and volume of silver transferred per
hour gradually rise. Then, silver transferred begins to climb.
More than 60% of the transfer is accomplished in a tenth of the
total time. Then, in the second stage, the amount of movement
and average silver transferred per movement seems to level,
except at 72 h, when the average amount of movement per
person suddenly increases. In addition, another peak occurs at
168 h, when the amount of silver withdrawn increases rapidly;
80% of the amount of silver has been moved in 4 h. In the
last stage, the volume of silver transferred is basically stable,
with a slight increase in movement per person.
Based on these statistics, we summarize the following.
1) In terms of time division, players’ consideration of
the two resources shows the following characteristics.
All resources have an accumulation process, and the
early growth curve matches the resource growth curve of
both, which is the first half of the S-shape and linear. The
player’s use or movement of resources is proportional to
the growth profile. Simultaneously, players use resources
to invest, i.e., in expansions and upgrades, to obtain more
resources later. After an early accumulation, both types
of resources have a long-term phase of smooth growth.
That is, with most players temporarily free of time
pressure, players actively or passively store resources
and invest less often than in the previous phase, in terms
of strategy and objective factors such as cosmic spam
constraints and level caps. In addition, when the ranking
deadline is near and entering the final sprint stage, play-
ers begin to “cash in” their resources, i.e., convert them
into points. Simultaneously, these conflicts objectively
increase the use of resources when players have clear
and urgent development goals that conflict with each
other’s goals.
2) Players consume energy every time they move to
expand, attack, or defend. While the main manner of
upgrading their attributes and scoring points is to con-
sume silver, the change in the amount of the two types
of resources portrays the development and expansion
speed, fight intensity, and productive resource allocation,
i.e., for upgrading or scoring points.
Overall, players value the reproduction of resources and
invest in them, while storing or consuming them for strategic
reasons. During the game, players adjust their strategy depend-
ing on their conditions and the overall situation, which they
can influence. Note that the game mechanics and limited-time
rankings drive players to adopt a strategy oriented toward win-
ning battles, which involves producing and managing assets
with the ultimate aim of winning.
D. RQ2.3 (A Fierce War)
In this section, we describe strategies that players choose to
survive and even win in a dispute on both micro and macro
scales. The relevant analysis concerns the player’s survival
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YAO et al.: FREEDOM AND RESTRAINT IN DF: A PEEK AT THE METAVERSE THROUGH A BLOCKCHAIN GAME 7
situation in the in-game war scenario and serves as a mirror
of individuals’ existence in a metaverse-era society.
1) Micro Strategy: We observed some in-game battles and
summarized the generally effective strategies players follow,
as well as special situations that arise. Player-player firefights
are inevitable. Therefore, when players plan to attack other
players, they must consider some aspects, such as whether
their resources are sufficient to support the attack and defense;
the best case is that the energy of the two planets (after
the attack) is approximately half of the limit, and energy
will recover fastest. If resources are insufficient, players
must consider trade-offs between energy fired and retained,
or tactical trade-offs between conquering in one or multiple
attacks. In addition, when players are attacked, they are mostly
confronted with two choices: defend the planet or surrender.
Evidently, if they are attacked while offline, they are defeated
without a fight. Players who defend their planet must marshal
resources. The most direct and common action is to transport
energy from their other planets to the current planet. When
transferring energy directly is too late, another option is to
wait. When an invader lands, their energy on the planet is
poor. Players can quickly attack to retake the planet. If the
players choose to flee, they must decide whether to wait near
their other for a chance to counterattack or begin a strategic
move farther away.
If the scale of the battle is enlarged to a struggle between
star groups, the direction of star alignment between two-star
clusters must be considered, delineating the front and back.
Similar to real battles, players must consider how to build
a solid and aggressive front line while maintaining a back
line that can steadily export resources. Similarly, players must
consider how to move forward on the front line, as well
as how to break down the opponent’s rear. In the article,
The Art of DF War by veteran player Ner0nzz,6 the struggle
between star groups is analyzed and some generalized strate-
gies are proposed, such as energy swapping and front-line
energy interception. In addition, when players have formed
alliances with other players, more actions are available for
handline attacks. For example, players can ask allies to transfer
planets to them to obtain additional energy support and more
subtle actions that take advantage of the rules, for example,
in one battle, player d_fdao had his ally make six harmless
attacks on himself before the enemy launched an attack,
taking advantage of the game rule that a planet can have
a maximum of six attacks, thereby avoiding the enemy’s
attack. In summary, in the battle, the most important aspect
for players to achieve victory is to have sufficient reserves
of energy. Based on this, allies, high-level strategies, and a
comprehensive understanding of the rules can dissipate the
situation of a lack of energy to an extent. Evidently, this
discussion is all based on players’ ability to counterattack.
Single players with insufficient resources must often retreat
when they discover enemies.
2) Macro Strategy: To win battles and the game, play-
ers must enhance their planets. In this section, we analyze
the player’s strategy in choosing the enhancement method
6https://blog.zkga.me/the-art-of-dark-forest-war
Fig. 6. Time series of the two enhancement methods.
and direction. Players can enhance planets using two meth-
ods: activating artifacts and upgrading planets. The former is
probabilistic and random, the latter is easy and controllable.
First, we analyze their function call time series data.
Fig. 6 shows the time sequences of upgradePlanet and
activateArtifact being called; upgradePlanet is called much
more often than activateArtifact. To present a more visual
comparison of the two methods, we present a folded line in
tenths of the total data. First, we focus on the entire picture.
The number of activated artifacts is much smaller than that of
upgrades given to planets. The main reason for this situation is
that acquiring artifacts is more difficult than upgrading planets.
In this case, players naturally tend to choose a more secure
and simple approach rather than gambling. Simultaneously,
even if players acquire artifacts, players cannot protect them
without power. activateAartifact tends to rise and then fall,
with an overall moderate rate. The number of upgradePlanet
calls increases rapidly at the beginning and then gradually
decreases. Several reasons explain this phenomenon: At the
beginning, all players begin at zero and must accumulate
resources. After obtaining sufficient resources, most players
choose to upgrade, and some choose to discover artifacts
and activate them. After some time, the resources required
to upgrade planets increase. With limited resources, upgrading
planets with stronger attributes becomes necessary. Simultane-
ously, while players continue to develop their territory, a planet
can only be upgraded a limited number of times. Moreover,
the acquisition of artifacts occurs throughout gameplay. Later,
planets that produce artifacts are constantly discovered, and
the artifact acquisition rate gradually declines. As shown in
Fig. 6, players denote considerable resources to upgrading;
thus, calling upgradePLanet provided sufficient data. There-
fore, we further analyzed upgradePlanet. DF allows three
upgrade directions: defense, range, and speed. Defense reduces
damage from enemies, range concerns the range of the planet’s
energy emission, and speed affects how fast the planet sends
energy. This reflects the reality of the collective development
being focused on range control, change resistance, and speed
reaction. We extracted the parameters of upgradePlanet related
to the upgrade direction for further study.
As shown in Fig. 7, the four sequences are defense, range,
speed, and the cumulative curve of the three. From an overall
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
8 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
Fig. 7. Time series of three upgrade types.
perspective, the number of upgrades to the range is much
greater than those of the other two; the ratio of the three
is 1:5:2, respectively. In addition, range upgrades tend to
decline overall and then abruptly rise later before declining
again. The downward trends of defense and speed are not
as obvious as that of range, and they even increase in some
intervals. From the perspective of time division, the upgrade
situation can be divided into four stages: 0–48 h, 48–120 h,
120–168 h, and 168 h–end. In the first stage, players perform
range upgrades on a large scale, and the number of upgrades
decreases over time. The second stage is similar to the first
but requires 1.5 times longer and has only appoximately three-
quarters of the number of upgrades. In the third stage, the
overall number of upgrades decreases. Finally, range upgrades
suddenly increase and then decrease. In addition, defense has
an upward trend at the beginning and then decreases; the
range is at a high point almost since the beginning, and
speed tends to remain flat overall. The reasons for these
phenomena are as follows. In the early expansion stages,
reaching new planets is more important. While few crossfires
occur between players because most are in independent zones,
after some time, in addition to the reasons mentioned in the
previous analysis for the decrease inupgradePlanet, struggles
between players require sources to be diverted to developing
defense and speed. In the final stage, skirmishes lessen in
favor of long-distance conquests. At this time, planet range has
strategic significance. When most people have completed their
development, upgrading more planets becomes unreasonable.
Thus, all types of upgrading are reduced.
Subsequently, to further explore the players upgrading
choices, we clustered players according to the number of
upgrades in different directions.
Fig. 8 shows the clustering of players’ upgrade directions
in a 3-D space. Each point in the figure represents a player,
and the x-, y-, and z-axes coordinates represent the times a
player upgrades defense, range, and speed, respectively. The
three types of players in the distribution of range are similar;
one class focuses on defense and speed number, another on
defense, and another on speed. In summary, when a player
knows that they are weak and that the enemy is temporarily
weak, but the development speed is unknown, most players
choose to quickly accumulate resources for a secure and
Fig. 8. Clustering of the types of upgrades.
controlled development to improve their attack and range.
Then, players tend to consume resources at the early stage
and stop upgrading at later stages once they have accumulated
resources. When consuming resources to upgrade, upgrading
has a ceiling, and the speed of upgrading gradually declines.
In addition, players generally place strategic importance on
resource reproduction and the range of control of combat
capabilities. Speed receives less attention; however, concerned
players seek extreme speed. Defense receives slightly more
attention, but players were not observed to upgrade it to the
extreme.
E. RQ2.4 (End-of-Game Strategy)
Here, we discuss the characteristics of the top players in the
game and the participation of the remaining players.
1) Top Player: Here, we discuss top players according to
their rank listing and game performance.
We determine the performance of individuals based on their
rank listing in v0.6-5. The rank listing shows the ranking
and scores of players. Of 1800+ players, 649 players had
a non-zero score. Of these 649 players, the top 63 players
are rewarded with NFTs from the official achievement list.
We applied the logarithm of 10 to the scores of these
649 players and plotted their score distribution.
As shown in Fig. 9, a nine-digit score in this round is
required to compete for the top 63 placements. If a player
wants to obtain a nine-digit score, they must submit ten digits
of silver, if silver comprises their entire score. This is difficult
even for top-ranked players. A massive invasion is required to
achieve this score. Only 66 people on the rank listing had a
nine-digit score (less than 4%). However, reaching nine figures
is only the threshold for reaching the achievement list, and
some players obtain distinctly superior scores. In the ranking,
the highest score was 1 700 000 000 with 530 000 000 points
between it and third place; this is ten times higher than that
obtained in 63. This shows that reaching the rank listing
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YAO et al.: FREEDOM AND RESTRAINT IN DF: A PEEK AT THE METAVERSE THROUGH A BLOCKCHAIN GAME 9
Fig. 9. Log10(score) of players in v0.6-5.
Fig. 10. CDF of energy with top players.
is extremely difficult, and the gap between players in high
rankings is large. Players whose scores reached nine figures
in the order of magnitude are the top players. In the following
discussion, we analyze the data from the top 63 players
as representatives of the top players. To analyze when the
head player is dominant, we plotted the data of only the top
63 players and the difference between the data of all players
and the top 63 players in Fig. 4.
As shown in Fig. 10, the expansion and energy output of the
top players was insignificant at the beginning. However, by the
end of the first day, these 63 players had accounted for half of
all players in terms of energy consumption. After a period of
smooth development, their slope was almost equal to the total
curve in the following time. After the accumulation period,
the head players have a clear advantage. These players can be
said to rapidly expand and hold considerable resources, and
the amount of resources indicates their strength. For example,
on February 23, a DAO completed the construction, producing
silver equal to 200 000 points per hour. As this time is still
in the development period, most players have been left far
behind.
Simultaneously, these players are highly likely to come from
or are themselves one of, the DAO. For example, the top
two players represent a DAO, and seven of the remaining
top ten players come from the same DAO. These DAOs are
known for their level of play and the work they perform in
community building and program development. For example,
one DAO achieved an operation beyond the game designers’
imagination, but within the rules. The player openly solicited
a certain prop from players in exchange for partial ownership
Fig. 11. Log10(score) of v0.6-5.
of the NFT they acquired. The top DAOs can gather power
in the early stages and help each other. In addition, their call
to arms can be helped in the community. Therefore, defeating
DAOs is extremely difficult without working with them.
2) Others: For other players other than the top player,
we analyzed when their last move was performed. Because
moves are the basis of the game, not moving is equivalent to
a planetary civilization stagnating to a point almost without the
possibility of development. As shown in Fig. 11, 1418 players
have performed at least one move, whereas the remaining
players have not performed even a basic move and are tourist
players, which account for approximately 20% of all players.
Among the remaining 1418 players, 15% of all players did
not move after the first day, and approximately 100 players
stopped moving every day thereafter, leaving only approx-
imately 200 players alive by the last day. After deducting
players from the achievement list, the number of players left at
this stage of the game was less than 10% of all players. Some
of these players occupied all the planets and the game ended.
However, the remaining players surrender to continuing their
development because of a loss of interest or hopelessness in
obtaining high scores. If we follow the previous division of the
three periods, the decrease in players is greatest in the initial
accumulation period, when these players leave the battlefield
before high-frequency firefights begin. In the development
period, players stay relatively more, and in the duel period,
the decrease of players increases again.
To better observe the players, we clustered the time series
of energy consumed by players’ movement within the game,
and clustering worked best with six clusters. These six clusters
reflect the following characteristics. In the cluster that accounts
for the smallest number of people, while the total consumption
is the largest, and the consumption per player is also the
largest, consumption and time are positively correlated. This
is the most enthusiastic player cluster, whereas the most
unenthusiastic cluster that accounted for the largest number
of players had the smallest total consumption and smallest
consumption per player. The other four clusters have similar
data, with consumption distributed at a different part of the
game. Combined with the previous results, in addition to the
enthusiastic top players, most are unenthusiastic players, some
with only a brief period of enthusiasm, and others fade away
until it was nearly the end of the game.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
10 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
3) Summary: We divided the game into stages of
accumulation, development, and sprint. In the early resource
accumulation stage, top players do not have an obvious
advantage. However, by the end of this period, the amount
of resources accumulated by top players is high. Conversely,
the development period is the period when players engage in
massive expansion and exploration based on their resources
accumulated in the first stage. In this stage, players’ under-
standing of the rules and their development of strategies lead to
further player differentiations. The scoring range is essentially
complete by the end of this stage. In the final period, most
battles occur between big players for the top ranking, and
the remaining players fight to obtain more points without
interfering with larger players, or they simply surrender.
In terms of player retention and the number of player clusters,
we determined that the top players certainly obtain a sense
of achievement and happiness. However, few players stay
until the end. Overall, a significant score gap separates top
players from the majority. They have better strategies and have
accumulated abundant resources in the early stage, thereby
forming two different levels of player groups. The top players
are most active in the community or backed by a strong DAO,
and both contribute to the formation of the Matthew effect.
V. RQ3 (DF’S SOCIOLOGICAL IMAGINATION)
The postmodernism theory holds that, since the 1960s, with
the revolution of science and technology and the development
of capitalism, western society has entered a type of post-
industrial society, also called an information society, high-tech,
media, consumer, and late capitalist society [25]. Postmoder-
nity accepts chaos, embraces differences, and produces greater
ambiguity full of turmoil and uncertainty.
Games simulate society on a simplified scale. Based on our
observations related to the internal ecology of DF, we believe
that the game touches on some basic characteristics and social
ethics of postmodern society at the macro-frame and micro-
individual levels, respectively.
A. Blockchain Game Space–Breaking Through Panopticism
With Decentralized Technology Application
Web2 games are centralized games, and a centralized
power hierarchy runs through them. This power system is
closely related to the panopticon model proposed by Fou-
cault. Foucault coined the term panopticism in Discipline and
Punishment, inspired by the panorama prison designed by the
British utilitarian philosopher Bentham. Bentham’s drawings
show a ring-shaped prison structure, with all cells facing
a central watchtower, and the guards inside the watchtower
have a clear view of the prisoners’ activities. Its closed and
fragmented spatial structure suggests a meticulous surveillance
mechanism into which everyone is embedded [26].
Web3 cultural products have the critical potential to subvert
the system of panoramic surveillance power. In games such
as DF, the player is no longer an individual governed by
a top-down power body but an active node in the network.
Each player can connect and influence other nodes. The power
structure in the game tends to be flattened, open-sourced, and
equalized. Blockchain game spaces can be a battlefield in
which conflict and competition occur between players or a
platform on which rights and obligations conspired. By jointly
influencing the direction of the game on different scales,
players can generate complex network products in the game,
which is a characteristic of DeSoc [27].
B. Blockchain Game Player–A Free Agency or a
New Poor in Cyberspace
Bowman’s theoretical perspective on the sociology of post-
modernity helps us understand the sociological implications
of player behavior in DF: societies are complex and unpre-
dictable, do not have a central goal-setting organization, and
are full of single-goal predominant agencies [28]. Theoret-
ically, physical players can be considered agents of digital
avatars in a virtual world, whose activity goal is to establish
galactic space empires in a randomly growing cosmic space.
Each agency is limited to a certain size, no mega-agents
are sufficiently large to incorporate or control other agen-
cies, and each agency resists centralizing control. Players are
interdependent to an extent, that is, their digital avatars must
often assess the strengths of other players to make alliances
or battle decisions. Note that the nature of this dependence
is not fixed. Each player has considerable autonomy. In a
decentralized game ecosystem, the ultimate goal of players is
to survive battles and build their habitat; therefore, they lack
the motivation to seek large-scale collective collaboration and
desire to seek identities in modern nation-state surrogates with
coalitions. Instead, players are given the freedom to customize
institutionalized goals, thereby obtaining the status of free
agency.
However, the game’s retention rate suggests that players’
increased autonomy within the game does not necessarily
lead to an easy promotion path. DF has a more complex
tiebreaker than other competitive Web2 games, highlighted
by several off-court factors that can affect gameplay. First,
the game infrastructure constitutes the player’s most basic
competitiveness. The hardware level of the player’s CPU is
directly related to speed. For example, with fog in the game,
all players must dispel the fog and open the map. The player’s
CPU determines the speed of opening the map. Players with
better CPUs can obtain information quickly and remain ahead
of the early competition. Second, the player’s expertise level
determines their ability to maintain an intellectual advantage
in subsequent games. Web3 games have vague borders. When
the source code is made public, all players can access the code;
however, only players with vast knowledge can leverage the
code and formulate sophisticated tactics or develop better plug-
ins to obtain more points. Again, while DF does not encourage
in-app purchases, over-the-counter deals are possible. NFTs
artifacts can upgrade player abilities, and purchasing game
information, computing power, etc. can significantly improve
players’ performances. However, these transactions are expen-
sive and require traders to have a certain understanding of
the differentiated market Web3 games have proposed more
covert requirements for personal assets such as money, time,
knowledge, and other abilities. Players must comprehensively
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
YAO et al.: FREEDOM AND RESTRAINT IN DF: A PEEK AT THE METAVERSE THROUGH A BLOCKCHAIN GAME 11
mobilize both material and immaterial personal capital to
achieve their goals. The availability of resources varies
depends on the player’s personal assets, and players/agencies
with more knowledge and resources can choose from a wider
range of integration models. In a postmodern society, the
degree of freedom in choosing among resources is an impor-
tant basis for social status and disparity. Knowledge (informa-
tion, asset capabilities, etc.) is an important bargaining counter
in conflicts aimed at the redistribution of resources [29].
We continue by focusing on the in-game losers, whose
absence from the game highlights the game’s problems. The
data shows that the game retention rate of DF is low, and the
game presents a clear player stratification soon after the game
begins. Although the game encourages players to participate in
discussions and even changes the rules, a considerable number
of players have never been noted. They may lack interest in
continuing to play, or they may be restricted by economic
and intellectual constraints. Few top players can achieve their
goals, and the remaining players show varying degrees of
low engagement after encountering insurmountable escalation
dilemmas. Compared with the dominant players, players with
low participation belong to a suppressed subordinate group.
Supposedly, they can freely pursue game goals; however, they
actually lack all resources required by the game. Whether low-
engagement players are actively or passively invisible in the
game, they are certainly at a competitive disadvantage by not
acquiring or consuming sufficient game resources. As Bauman
noted, being poor in a society of consumers is considerably
different from material scarcity, in which life projects are built
around consumer choice rather than work, professional skills,
or jobs. If being poor once derived its meaning from the
condition of being unemployed, today, it primarily draws its
meaning from the plight of a flawed consumer [30].
As demonstrated, in a blockchain game with a rebuilt
trading system, the player’s survival strategy follows the rules
of Web2 games, and the influence of off-site factors places
more emphasis on the power of personal capital. Instead
of liberation, the individual is subjected to increased digital
surveillance. This confirms that decentralized technology as
a form of utopia has yet to decouple itself from numerous
material and institutional issues. Decentralized technology
proponents promise a revolutionary invention; however, the
social ties and institutional configurations of today’s economic
world may actually be more difficult to displace [31].
VI. CONCLUSION
In this study, we examined the social connection between
DF and its techno-cultural subjectivities by analyzing the
game-generated data of players’ behavior. Focused on version
0.6-5 of the game, we collected all functions, time calls,
and called function addressed. Compared with traditional
competitive games, Web3 games have forged more covert gov-
ernance over players’ personal assets. Meanwhile, the social
landscape of the Metaverse elicit hope and fear, as the system
is to be empowered by decentralized technology. However,
inhabiting subjects remain torn between the techno-utopianism
and systemic dilemma of late capitalism.
REFERENCES
[1] H. Duan, J. Li, S. Fan, Z. Lin, X. Wu, and W. Cai, “Metaverse for
social good: A university campus prototype,” in Proc. 29th ACM Int.
Conf. Multimedia, Chengdu, China, Oct. 2021, pp. 153–161.
[2] T. Min, H. Wang, Y. Guo, and W. Cai, “Blockchain games: A sur-
vey,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Games (CoG), London, U.K., Aug. 2019,
pp. 1–8.
[3] (2021). Cryptocurrency. Community Members Integrate Play-
to-Earn Features into Dark Forest Game. [Online]. Available:
https://www.investing.com/news/cryptocurrency-news/community-
members-integrate-playtoearn-features-into-dark-forest-game-2519549
[4] W. Aufderhar. (2020). An RTS Game on Ethereum. [Online]. Available:
https://morioh.com/p/95f44508f6b2
[5] (2021). CoinYuppie. Dark Forest: A Blockchain Game That
Integrates ‘Three-Body’ into Ethereum. [Online]. Available:
https://coinyuppie.com/dark-forest-a-blockchain-game-that-integrates-
three-body-into-ethereum/
[6] M. Daniel and C. Garry, Video Games as Culture: Considering the Role
and Importance of Video Games in Contemporary Society. Evanston,
IL, USA: Routledge, 2018.
[7] J. Corliss, “Introduction: The social science study of video games,”
Games Culture, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 3–16, Jan. 2011.
[8] A. R. Galloway, “Social realism in gaming,” Game Stud., vol. 4, no. 1,
p. 2004, 2004.
[9] T. Boellstorff, “Coming of age in second life,” in Coming Age 2nd Life.
Princeton, NJ, USA: Princeton Univ. Press, 2015.
[10] S. Woods, “Loading the dice: The challenge of serious videogames,”
Game Stud., vol. 4, no. 1, p. 207, 2004.
[11] T. L. Ross and L. B. Collister, “A social scientific framework for social
systems in online video games: Building a better looking for raid loot
system in world of warcraft,” Comput. Hum. Behav., vol. 36, pp. 1–12,
Jul. 2014.
[12] M. J. Guitton, “Living in the hutt space: Immersive process in the star
wars role-play community of second life,” Comput. Hum. Behav., vol. 28,
no. 5, pp. 1681–1691, Sep. 2012.
[13] C.-H. Chen, C.-T. Sun, and J. Hsieh, “Player guild dynamics and
evolution in massively multiplayer online games,” CyberPsychology
Behav., vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 293–301, Jun. 2008.
[14] W. Cai, Z. Wang, J. B. Ernst, Z. Hong, C. Feng, and V. C. Leung,
“Decentralized applications: The blockchain-empowered software sys-
tem,” IEEE Access, vol. 6, pp. 53019–53033, 2018.
[15] Y. Jiang, T. Min, S. Fan, R. Tao, and W. Cai, “Towards understanding
player behavior in blockchain games: A case study of aavegotchi,” in
Proc. 17th Int. Conf. Found. Digit. Games, New York, NY, USA, 2022.
[Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.13013
[16] K. Iyer, Building Games With Ethereum Smart Contracts. New York,
NY, USA: Springer, 2018.
[17] M. Jurgens. (2022). Are Playertoearn Games Ponzi Schemes?. [Online].
Available: http://www.bsc.news/post/are-playtoearn-games-a-ponzi
[18] M. Perkmann. (2021). Axie Infinity: Gaming NFT Revolution or Ponzi
Scheme?. [Online]. Available: https://medium.com/coinmonks/axie-
infinity-gaming-nft-revolution-or-ponzi-scheme-3d81b1647429
[19] (2022). STEPN. Are All P2E Games a Ponzi?. [Online]. Available:
https://coinmarketcap.com/community/articles/26001
[20] T. Min, H. Wang, Y. Guo, and W. Cai, “Blockchain games: A survey,”
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Games (CoG), Aug. 2019, pp. 1–8.
[21] T. Chen, H. Lu, T. Kunpittaya, and A. Luo, “A review of zk-SNARKs,”
2022, arXiv:2202.06877.
[22] D. Steinley, “K-means clustering: A half-century synthesis,” Brit.
J. Math. Stat. Psychol., vol. 59, no. 1, pp. 1–34, May 2006.
[23] R. Gennaro, C. Gentry, B. Parno, and M. Raykova. (2012).
Quadratic Span Programs and Succinct NIZKs Without PCPS.
Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2012/215. [Online]. Available:
https://eprint.iacr.org/2012/215
[24] C. Liu, The Dark Forest, vol. 2. London, U.K.: Macmillan, 2015.
[25] D. Bell, “The coming of the post-industrial society,” Educ. Forum,
vol. 40, no. 4, pp. 574–579, May 1976.
[26] M. Foucault, “‘Panopticism’ from ‘discipline & punish: The birth of
the prison,”’ Race/Ethnicity, Multidisciplinary Global Contexts, vol. 2,
no. 1, pp. 1–12, 2008.
[27] E. G. Weyl, P. Ohlhaver, and V. Buterin, “Decentralized society: Finding
Web3’s soul,” Available at SSRN 4105763, 2022.
[28] Z. Bauman, “Postmodern ethics,” in The New Social Theory Reader.
Evanston, IL, USA: Routledge, 2020, pp. 138–145.
[29] G. Ritzer and J. Stepnisky, Contemporary Sociological Theory and Its
Classical Roots: The Basics. Newbury Park, CA, USA: Sage, 2022.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
12 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTATIONAL SOCIAL SYSTEMS
[30] Z. Bauman, Work, Consumerism and the New Poor. New York, NY,
USA: McGraw-Hill, 2004.
[31] H. Karlstrøm, “Do libertarians dream of electric coins? The material
embeddedness of bitcoin,” Distinktion, J. Social Theory, vol. 15, no. 1,
pp. 23–36, Jan. 2014.
Nanjun Yao is currently pursuing the B.Eng.
degree in electronic information engineering with
the School of Science and Engineering, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong at Shenzhen (CUHKSZ),
Shenzhen, China.
She is currently working as a Research Assis-
tant with the Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts,
Guangzhou, China, and the CUHK(SZ)–White
Matrix Joint Metaverse Laboratory. She has served
as the Lead Designer for CUHKSZ Metaverse
Project. Her current research interests include digital
games, blockchain, DeFi, and Web3.
Zexin Lin (Student Member, IEEE) is currently
pursuing the B.Eng. degree in electronic information
engineering with the School of Science and Engi-
neering, The Chinese University of Hong Kong at
Shenzhen (CUHKSZ), Shenzhen, China.
He has been working as a Research Assistant with
the Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts, Guangzhou,
China, and the CUHK(SZ)–White Matrix Joint
Metaverse Laboratory. He has been serving as the
President of Game Research Club at CUHKSZ.
His current research interests include digital games,
blockchain, DeFi, and Web3.
Xiao Wu (Member, IEEE) received the B.Sc.
and M.Sc. degrees in computing science from the
University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada, in
2013 and 2015, respectively.
He is currently the Director of the Yangtze River
Blockchain International Innovation Center and the
CEO of White Matrix Inc., Nanjing, China. He has
been serving as the Vice Director of the CUHK(SZ)–
White Matrix Joint Metaverse Laboratory, The
Chinese University of Hong Kong at Shenzhen,
Shenzhen, China. His recent research interests are
mainly in the topic of blockchain, digital games, Web3, developer ecosystem
and middleware technology.
Dr. Wu received the First Prize of China Blockchain Development Contest
in 2020. He is also a Co-Organizer of ETH Shanghai 2022 and the Founder
of ChainIDE.
Lin Wang received the B.A. degree in graphic
design and the M.A. degree in oriental painting from
Xiamen University, Xiamen, China, in 2008 and
2011, respectively, and the Ph.D. degree in art his-
tory from Shaanxi Normal University, Xi’an, China,
in 2018.
From 2011 to 2013, she was an Art Editor with
Xiamen University Press. She is currently an Assis-
tant Research Fellow with the Research Center for
Chinese Modern Art, Guangzhou Academy of Fine
Arts, Guangzhou, China. Her recent research inter-
ests are mainly in the topic of modern and contemporary Chinese visual arts,
including Manhua history in the early 20th century, socialist visual culture,
and indie game studies.
Dr. Wang was nominated for the first Zhaowen Wang Prize of Art History
in 2020.
This article has been accepted for inclusion in a future issue of this journal. Content is final as presented, with the exception of pagination. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: CITY UNIV OF HONG KONG. Downloaded on April 15,2023 at 08:54:16 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
<<
  /ASCII85EncodePages false
  /AllowTransparency false
  /AutoPositionEPSFiles true
  /AutoRotatePages /None
  /Binding /Left
  /CalGrayProfile (Black & White)
  /CalRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CalCMYKProfile (U.S. Web Coated \050SWOP\051 v2)
  /sRGBProfile (sRGB IEC61966-2.1)
  /CannotEmbedFontPolicy /Warning
  /CompatibilityLevel 1.4
  /CompressObjects /Tags
  /CompressPages true
  /ConvertImagesToIndexed true
  /PassThroughJPEGImages true
  /CreateJobTicket false
  /DefaultRenderingIntent /Default
  /DetectBlends true
  /DetectCurves 0.0000
  /ColorConversionStrategy /LeaveColorUnchanged
  /DoThumbnails true
  /EmbedAllFonts true
  /EmbedOpenType false
  /ParseICCProfilesInComments true
  /EmbedJobOptions true
  /DSCReportingLevel 0
  /EmitDSCWarnings false
  /EndPage -1
  /ImageMemory 524288
  /LockDistillerParams true
  /MaxSubsetPct 100
  /Optimize true
  /OPM 0
  /ParseDSCComments false
  /ParseDSCCommentsForDocInfo true
  /PreserveCopyPage true
  /PreserveDICMYKValues true
  /PreserveEPSInfo true
  /PreserveFlatness true
  /PreserveHalftoneInfo true
  /PreserveOPIComments true
  /PreserveOverprintSettings true
  /StartPage 1
  /SubsetFonts true
  /TransferFunctionInfo /Remove
  /UCRandBGInfo /Preserve
  /UsePrologue false
  /ColorSettingsFile ()
  /AlwaysEmbed [ true
    /AdobeArabic-Bold
    /AdobeArabic-BoldItalic
    /AdobeArabic-Italic
    /AdobeArabic-Regular
    /AdobeHebrew-Bold
    /AdobeHebrew-BoldItalic
    /AdobeHebrew-Italic
    /AdobeHebrew-Regular
    /AdobeHeitiStd-Regular
    /AdobeMingStd-Light
    /AdobeMyungjoStd-Medium
    /AdobePiStd
    /AdobeSansMM
    /AdobeSerifMM
    /AdobeSongStd-Light
    /AdobeThai-Bold
    /AdobeThai-BoldItalic
    /AdobeThai-Italic
    /AdobeThai-Regular
    /ArborText
    /Arial-Black
    /Arial-BoldItalicMT
    /Arial-BoldMT
    /Arial-ItalicMT
    /ArialMT
    /BellGothicStd-Black
    /BellGothicStd-Bold
    /BellGothicStd-Light
    /ComicSansMS
    /ComicSansMS-Bold
    /Courier
    /Courier-Bold
    /Courier-BoldOblique
    /CourierNewPS-BoldItalicMT
    /CourierNewPS-BoldMT
    /CourierNewPS-ItalicMT
    /CourierNewPSMT
    /Courier-Oblique
    /CourierStd
    /CourierStd-Bold
    /CourierStd-BoldOblique
    /CourierStd-Oblique
    /EstrangeloEdessa
    /EuroSig
    /FranklinGothic-Medium
    /FranklinGothic-MediumItalic
    /Gautami
    /Georgia
    /Georgia-Bold
    /Georgia-BoldItalic
    /Georgia-Italic
    /Helvetica
    /Helvetica-Bold
    /Helvetica-BoldOblique
    /Helvetica-Oblique
    /Impact
    /KozGoPr6N-Medium
    /KozGoProVI-Medium
    /KozMinPr6N-Regular
    /KozMinProVI-Regular
    /Latha
    /LetterGothicStd
    /LetterGothicStd-Bold
    /LetterGothicStd-BoldSlanted
    /LetterGothicStd-Slanted
    /LucidaConsole
    /LucidaSans-Typewriter
    /LucidaSans-TypewriterBold
    /LucidaSansUnicode
    /Mangal-Regular
    /MicrosoftSansSerif
    /MinionPro-Bold
    /MinionPro-BoldIt
    /MinionPro-It
    /MinionPro-Regular
    /MinionPro-Semibold
    /MinionPro-SemiboldIt
    /MVBoli
    /MyriadPro-Black
    /MyriadPro-BlackIt
    /MyriadPro-Bold
    /MyriadPro-BoldIt
    /MyriadPro-It
    /MyriadPro-Light
    /MyriadPro-LightIt
    /MyriadPro-Regular
    /MyriadPro-Semibold
    /MyriadPro-SemiboldIt
    /PalatinoLinotype-Bold
    /PalatinoLinotype-BoldItalic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Italic
    /PalatinoLinotype-Roman
    /Raavi
    /Shruti
    /Sylfaen
    /Symbol
    /SymbolMT
    /Tahoma
    /Tahoma-Bold
    /Times-Bold
    /Times-BoldItalic
    /Times-Italic
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT
    /TimesNewRomanPS-ItalicMT
    /TimesNewRomanPSMT
    /Times-Roman
    /Trebuchet-BoldItalic
    /TrebuchetMS
    /TrebuchetMS-Bold
    /TrebuchetMS-Italic
    /Tunga-Regular
    /Verdana
    /Verdana-Bold
    /Verdana-BoldItalic
    /Verdana-Italic
    /Webdings
    /Wingdings-Regular
    /ZapfDingbats
    /ZWAdobeF
  ]
  /NeverEmbed [ true
  ]
  /AntiAliasColorImages false
  /CropColorImages true
  /ColorImageMinResolution 150
  /ColorImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleColorImages true
  /ColorImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /ColorImageResolution 600
  /ColorImageDepth -1
  /ColorImageMinDownsampleDepth 1
  /ColorImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeColorImages true
  /ColorImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterColorImages true
  /ColorImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /ColorACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /ColorImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.15
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000ColorImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasGrayImages false
  /CropGrayImages true
  /GrayImageMinResolution 150
  /GrayImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleGrayImages true
  /GrayImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /GrayImageResolution 600
  /GrayImageDepth -1
  /GrayImageMinDownsampleDepth 2
  /GrayImageDownsampleThreshold 1.50000
  /EncodeGrayImages true
  /GrayImageFilter /DCTEncode
  /AutoFilterGrayImages true
  /GrayImageAutoFilterStrategy /JPEG
  /GrayACSImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.76
    /HSamples [2 1 1 2] /VSamples [2 1 1 2]
  >>
  /GrayImageDict <<
    /QFactor 0.15
    /HSamples [1 1 1 1] /VSamples [1 1 1 1]
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayACSImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /JPEG2000GrayImageDict <<
    /TileWidth 256
    /TileHeight 256
    /Quality 15
  >>
  /AntiAliasMonoImages false
  /CropMonoImages true
  /MonoImageMinResolution 300
  /MonoImageMinResolutionPolicy /OK
  /DownsampleMonoImages true
  /MonoImageDownsampleType /Bicubic
  /MonoImageResolution 900
  /MonoImageDepth -1
  /MonoImageDownsampleThreshold 1.33333
  /EncodeMonoImages true
  /MonoImageFilter /CCITTFaxEncode
  /MonoImageDict <<
    /K -1
  >>
  /AllowPSXObjects false
  /CheckCompliance [
    /None
  ]
  /PDFX1aCheck false
  /PDFX3Check false
  /PDFXCompliantPDFOnly false
  /PDFXNoTrimBoxError true
  /PDFXTrimBoxToMediaBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXSetBleedBoxToMediaBox true
  /PDFXBleedBoxToTrimBoxOffset [
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
    0.00000
  ]
  /PDFXOutputIntentProfile (None)
  /PDFXOutputConditionIdentifier ()
  /PDFXOutputCondition ()
  /PDFXRegistryName ()
  /PDFXTrapped /Unknown
  /CreateJDFFile false
  /Description <<
    /ENU ()
  >>
>> setdistillerparams
<<
  /HWResolution [600 600]
  /PageSize [612.000 792.000]
>> setpagedevice