Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) as a Trading Mechanism for the Metaverse
Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens
(NFTs) as a Trading Mechanism
for the Metaverse
Murat Yilmaz1,2(B), Tuna Hacaloğlu3, and Paul Clarke4,5
1 Department of Computer Engineering, Engineering Faculty, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey
my@gazi.edu.tr
2 Metaverse Research and Development Laboratory, Gazi University, Ankara, Turkey
3 Department of Information Systems Engineering, Atilim University, Ankara, Turkey
tuna.hacaloglu@atilim.edu.tr
4 School of Computing, Dublin City University, Dublin, Ireland
paul.m.clarke@dcu.ie
5 Lero, the Science Foundation Ireland Research Centre for Software, Limerick, Ireland
Abstract. The notion of a metaverse seems hard to define but encourages the
impression that it can be considered as a new virtual metaphysical landscape
that somehow goes beyond our geographical locations and understanding (i.e.,
independent of time and space). Based on virtual reality, augmented reality, and
blockchain, it is envisioned as an independent but extended world that is planned
to be a digital virtuality entrenched not only in our old habits such as gaming
and entertainment but also in virtual asset trade. In particular, trading is a pillar
of the virtual economy, and auction houses will be crucial for Metaverse trading.
This exploratory study examines the possibility of using an auction environment
to improve the trading capabilities in a virtual universe. We investigate the cases
of creating a virtual auction house with the potential of social trading of virtual
assets with crypto coins and bartering. To this end, we built a virtual auction house
and tested it initially using a set of scenarios. Our preliminary findings suggest
that creating a virtual trading environment would be beneficial as an environment
for buying and selling virtual assets and exploring their consequences.
Keywords: Metaverse · Auction theory · Virtual reality · NFT · Trading
mechanism
1 Introduction
Increasingly widespread digitalization and particularly the developments in information
technologies caused many activities to take place in digital environments. The process
was accelerated with the COVID-19 pandemic and is rapidly reshaping the way people
interact with their environment [1]. While many purchase and sale transactions were
used to be carried out physically in the past, these transactions can now be realized in
digital environments. According to some studies, many traditional purchasing-selling
© Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2022
M. Yilmaz et al. (Eds.): EuroSPI 2022, CCIS 1646, pp. 18–28, 2022.
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15559-8_2
http://crossmark.crossref.org/dialog/?doi=10.1007/978-3-031-15559-8_2&domain=pdf
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-031-15559-8_2
Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) 19
costs could disappear with the increasing pervasiveness of virtual environments [2], one
reason for which is the direct communication and trading between private individuals.
Within the scope of emerging technologies and the needs arising from the COVID-19
pandemic, new auctions and auction models have started to emerge [3]. For example,
in massively multi-player computer games, in-game purchases can be completed with
auction mechanisms [4].
According to Ball [5], such a digital transformation requires fundamental changes
in eight components: (i) hardware, (ii) computing, (iii) network structure, (iv) virtual
platforms, (v) payment systems, (vi) content, services, (vii) values and (viii) user behav-
ior. One example of a hardware change is the Oculus Quest 3D virtual reality headset.
Apart from these types of technological innovations, individuals’ shopping habits have
been significantly affected by the necessity to avoid physical contact. According to a
recent survey in [6], approximately 77% of the total participants believed that the pan-
demic had a significant impact on their purchasing behavior. In this context, the “store
comes home” effect is observable among the eight immediate impacts of the COVID-
19 pandemic on consumption and consumer behavior [7]. Adopting new technologies
to support the experience and effectiveness of direct digital trading, innovations such
as the Metaverse can provide infrastructure and interaction opportunities for cultural,
intellectual and economic production [8]. A similar extent space was named Metaverse
for the first time in a science fiction novel called “Snow Crash” [9].
According to Wang et al. [10], the Metaverse has the potential to transform our
society by enabling a variety of immersive social applications such as virtual lives, virtual
shopping, virtual dating, virtual chatting, global travel, and even space/time travel. It is
also apparent that this structure can bring a new dimension to the users’ interaction
with cultural content by using the sense of presence effectively. For example, there
exists hundreds of permanent galleries and museum spaces in the game Second Life.
In this game, which can be considered as a more elementary version of the Metaverse,
the artworks can be exchanged between the players, and the players can decorate their
homes with these artworks. Similarly, in Digital Palace Museum developed in 2018 by
Tencent, tourists were allowed to gain a panoramic and immersive experience of visiting
the museum from their homes using virtual reality helmets [10]. As another example, in
the game called Fortnite, a concert was given by the electronic music producer named
Marshmello, in which players took part as the audience [11]. Yet another example would
be the concert delivered by Lil Nas X in 2020 to more than 30 million participants in
Roblox, a Metaverse-based gaming environment that has 47 million daily active users
globally [12]. As part of this event, it was possible for the game players to shop in aligned
digital stores [10].
In this study, we developed a 3D auction system prototype that can be accessed
via virtual reality headsets. The software to be developed will enable users with these
headsets to participate in a 3D auction environment for Non-Fungible Token (NFT)
trading (refer to Sect. 2.2 for details regardingNFTs). In thisway, the auction participants
in the virtual environment will be able to interact in a manner similar to traditional
physical participation. With this study, we aim to create an auction-based digital market
model and develop a trading application for the Metaverse with the following features:
20 M. Yilmaz et al.
• By participating in the organized auctions, participants will be able to buy and sell
NFTs with different shopping models.
• Live Metaverse NFT auctions will allow multiple participants to simultaneously and
reliably partake in virtual auctions.
• The planned system will bring different dimensions to NFT trading and make the
organization of auction events more accessible.
Due to its scope, content, and applicability to different platforms, the research will be
a pioneering application, especially for the NFT-based shopping systems of the future.
In addition, we plan to explore how the NFT trading process can be restructured as
a bartering system, without the exchange of money. This trading model benefits from
an innovative auction-swap model. In other words, the planned system allows bidders to
exchange goods directly rather than purchasing/selling products in exchange for money.
RQ1: Will the model and its application enable the participants to successfully
exchange NFTs?
RQ2:Will the model and its application facilitate multi-layered transactions, namely
complexNFT trading involving both barter and classical exchanges between two ormore
participants?
This paper has been divided into five parts. The next part contextualizes the research
by providing background information about the Metaverse, NFTs and auction mech-
anisms. In the third part, we summarize the virtual auction house prototype and its
preliminary results. The fourth part discusses the limitations and includes a discussion
about the implications of the findings on future research. The final section concludes the
paper.
2 Background
2.1 The Notion of Metaverse
It is suggested that the Metaverse fictional universe, starting with the concept of mul-
tiplayer digital games, will evolve into a new generation Internet incorporating virtual
reality, augmented reality and blockchain [13]. Mark Zuckerberg, owner of Facebook,
describes the Metaverse as “the concretized Internet in which we are inside of it, instead
of watching the content” and states that it is made up of three-layered architecture con-
sisting of infrastructure (blockchain and storage, communication and network, comput-
ing power), intersection (inclusive user experience, digital twins, content creation user
interface) and virtual world (user-generated content, economics, artificial intelligence)
[14].
This observation converges with the proposition of Lee et al. [13] on the point of
describing the components ofMetaverse. This structure offers a potential ground for new
forms of cultural production, and styles of expression and learning. Kim [15] defines
this ground as two different services: user and cultural content management system.
The author indicates that while a user management service can address registration and
avatar management, a content management service should be responsible for the transfer
of the cultural content to individuals. In this case, there is a possibility in the long run
that the Metaverse will evolve into a virtual replica of the environments we live in.
Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) 21
Figure 1 shows the key technologies that should be used and the impact areas that
need to be focused in order to bring the Metaverse ecosystem to life.
Fig. 1. Metavere ecosystem (adapted from Lee et al. [13])
2.2 Non-fungible Tokens (NFT)
An innovative construct in this domain is the Non-Fungible Tokens (NFT), which are
the content units in digital platforms that cannot be exchanged by other cryptocurrencies
and which approves the uniqueness of a digital asset with the help of blockchain [16].
An evolution of blockchain technology, NFTs exhibit significant growth in business
volume such that the total market value of NFT has surpassed $40 billion (USD) in 2021
[17]. There exists different applications of NFTs that find themselves a place in various
domains which are summarized in [18] as digital art, fashion, licenses and certifications,
collectibles, gaming, domain names, virtual worlds and sports. Trading platforms for
NFTs, such as OpenSea and Rarible, make it easy for the NFT holders to trade with one
another, just like trading other conventional objects with monetary values [13]. NFT is a
cryptographic method of proving the owner of a token linked to a transaction. A token is
a special transaction type supporting the Ethereum cryptocurrency and smart contracts.
NFTs allow its users to be the owner of an asset that is unique or limited, just like an
artwork or a numbered edition of a custom-made book. The unique characteristics of
NFTs differentiate them from the Bitcoin concept in which coins are not different from
each other [19]. For example, when Bitcoin is exchanged between two people, they will
both have the same asset [20]. However, since it is not possible to exchange NFT in
an equivalent way; NFT can be used to describe something in a unique manner [21].
Therefore, it is possible to use NFT to prove the ownership of a unique digital item [22].
Consequently and more specifically, NFTs can provide new opportunities for the art-
related businesses which suffer from establishing online markets because of the inabil-
ity of claiming the exclusive ownership [18, 23]. In fact, GLAM (Galleries, Libraries,
22 M. Yilmaz et al.
Archives and Museums) institutions have already started selling NFTs of their collec-
tions, and The British Museum is a recent example of this [24]. Another application
of the NFTs is the Foundation app [25] which is designed as an online-auction-based
marketplace for NFTs [26]. In this application, several actions related to NFTs can be
performed, from its creation until it is owned by a bidder, such as minting, listing,
un-listing, bidding, settling and transferring [26].
Some researchers have argued that unlike the basic needs we should have in real life,
the value of virtual objects can be evaluated based on their associated social status rather
than consumption [13]. This shows that some digital immovables have the potential to
form the basis of acquiring new social status indicators in the Metaverse World [27].
Owning an original picture, spending money for your home in the digital environment
and shopping can be described as such activities.
In terms of organizing cultural events, Decentraland - known as one of theMetaverse
worlds - has organized a four-day festival of music, culture and creativity. To participate
in this activity, apart from having a powerful computer andweb browser, you also needed
a digital wallet to hold your personal belongings such as NFTs, land and crypto [28]. As
a further example of the growth in this space, Division Network hosted an augmented
reality-based conference. Since there is a mechanism for NFTs that guarantees unique-
ness and thus can validate the value of digital assets [15], future Metaverse users will
be able to safely collect digital assets, and a new digital content trading marketplace
will be created. NFT technologies offer the artists opportunities to protect the value
they produce, to transfer it safely and to ensure the rarity of the collected assets. To this
extent, artists can earn money without a mediator, which leads to the birth of a new art
economy. It is expected that digital galleries, art events and marketplaces to be created
will be important components of the art ecosystem in the Metaverse universe. A recent
example of this can be the British auction house Sotheby’s [29]. As reported in [29],
a Metaverse session called “Sotheby’s Metaverse” was initiated, and a special auction
called “Natively Digital 1.2: The Collectors” has already been organized with 53 pieces
fromNFT collections. In view of this information, it is anticipated that the developments
in NFT technologies will lead to the emergence of new markets and professions such as
digital stylists, investment and marketing specialists [30].
To explore the potential of this space, 3D virtual store design principles were outlined
in [31], ultimately proposing that entertainment should be an incorporated element.
Therefore, this “entertainment factor” is advocated to Metaverse retailers designing
3D stores [31]. Our study aims to highlight the importance of auction systems in the
Metaverse.With the help of the auction systems, researchers can investigate new types of
salesmodels and auctionmechanisms for selling artworks and virtual lands. In particular,
we consider new types of shopping and exchange opportunities integrated into the sales
processes of these works. Thus, access to digital works using NFTs will increase. This
study creates an auction environment that uses 3D modeling and is designed to work
in the Metaverse. The concept can be considered to lie at the intersection of economic
mechanism design (auction modeling as a sub-field of game theory) and virtual reality.
Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) 23
2.3 Auction Systems
An auction is amarketplace having a clear set of rules that determines resource allocation
and prices based on market participants’ bids [32]. Even though the exact origin of the
auctions is unknown, the earliest auctions found in the historical records date back to
Babylon [33]. Although auctions have a parallel history with human history, important
developments in auction theory have emerged in the last two decades. In particular, the
developments in information technologies permitted the design of more complex and
efficient auction models. Auctions today can take place in the form of multi-product or
single-item bargains. In the traditional single item auction model, each item or bundle
of indivisible items is auctioned off one by one, and the winner is the highest bidder for
each item. Due to its simplicity, this model has been used throughout history and is still
in widespread use today.
English Auction. In this well-known classical public sale type, the auctioneer starts the
auction with a reserve price (the lowest acceptable price), and the auction continues with
the bidders’ increasing prices until there is no more increase in the bid prices. The bidder
proposing the highest price acquires the possession of the product by paying the amount
he/she had proposed. The proposed bids are known by all bidders at the time of auction.
In this auction type, the auctioneer has the right to keep the reserve price secret. In this
openly competitive context, bids may exceed real value, for example with inexperienced
bidders raising the price. However, it is the most widely used form of auction on a global
scale [34].
Dutch Auction. Although the English Auction is the most widely used auction type,
the Dutch auction is the first known type of auction in history. In contrast to the English
auction, this auction type starts with an overbid, and the bid is lowered until a point at
which a buyer says “mine” and pays the price [32].
Sealed First Price Auction. Sealed first-price auctions are widely used in government
auctions [34]. In this type of auction, the bids are sealed and, therefore, are hidden from
the other bid owners. Generally, each bidder is allowed to submit only a single offer,
making the preparation of the bid extremely important. This type of auction has two
phases: a bidding phase where bidders submit their bids, and a resolution phase where
the auction winner is determined. As with the English auction, the winner pays the full
amount they bid.
Sealed Second Price Auction. This auction type is also known as the Vickrey auction.
As the sealed first price auction, the bids are closed. However, in this type of auction, the
auction winner pays the second-highest bid amount instead of their original final bid.
Although this public sale format is rarely used, it is important as it provides a motivation
for bidders to offer the real value [32].
Combinatorial Auctions. Single item auctions are suitable when the value of each item
is irrelevant to the values of other items for each bidder. However, there can be comple-
mentarities and substitutions between items. The parallel auction model, in which all
the items are auctioned simultaneously, increases the allocation efficiency by reducing
24 M. Yilmaz et al.
uncertainty, but it does not help to solve the complementarity problem (involving com-
plementarities between items). The combinatorial auction model solves this problem
by allowing bundle bidding, that is, bidding on combinations of different items. In this
model, all items are available to bidders, and the bidders are free to express their own
valuations for any combination of items. The combinatorial auction model is widely
used in many areas such as transportation [35] and education [36].
3 Virtual Auction House Prototype
We propose that agent-based modeling can be considered a useful tool when creating a
virtual market for multiple auctioneers. We designed three scenarios to test the auction
mechanism and the virtual reality-based auctioning application for theOculusMetaverse
(see Fig. 2). Three NFTs and a set of three personas with different bidding behaviors
were incorporated: (i) a naïve agent with no learning or memory skills, which bids with
true costs that are essentially bids until it runs out of money (named as AG1), (ii) a
rule-based agent which cannot learn but has a short-term memory and ultimately can
bid on three items concurrently (named as AG2), (iii) an agent with the basic skills of
reinforced learning which has the skills to track its state and compare it with the auction
state (and the collected data to maximize the winning chances) (named as AG3).
Fig. 2. Preliminary prototype of the auction house
The system initiated an auction in a virtual reality environment to create a unique
trading experience for human participants. Consequently, we run the test auctions with
three human participants with three initial auction scenarios.We generated digital credits
for the participants in a random range to explore differences in the bidding. All three
NFTs are generated and valued by the system, and a set of scenarios were initiated. The
naïve agent was programmed to bid on a single item based on the initial digital money
Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) 25
randomly generated for its usage. The rule-based agent was programmed to acquire the
two of the three NFTs generated. The agent with learning skills was programmed to aim
for all three items based on its initial generated credits (denoted with System Credit -
SC).
The first scenario had three NFTs, NFT1 had a value of 3000 SC, NFT2 had a value
of 2000 SC, NFT3 had a value of 4500 SC.
Table 1. First auction run with one human and three virtual agents
Participant
type
initial credit NFT1 Bidding
count
NFT2 bidding
count
NFT3 bidding
count
Winner of the
asset
Human1 4500SC 9 6 8 NFT2
AG1 3000SC 15 – 1 NFT1
AG2 6000SC 3 10 4 NFT3
AG3 4000SC 7 8 7 –
Table 1 shows the initial run with all agents involved. It can be inferred from the table
that AG1 has the maximum bid for NFT1, which has a price match that can maximize its
benefit, and show the most aggressive bidding behaviour. It only bided once for NFT3
at the commencement of its auction. Not surprisingly, it secured NFT1 and spent all
its credits in the process. Human participant won NFT2 while other auctioneers were
concurrently bidding for other items. NFT3was acquired by AG2 as it had the maximum
resources after NFT1was sold toAG1.AG3was the loser of the session due to its bidding
policy.
In the second scenario, we created a high priced NFT1 with a value of 7500 SC
and one low price item. NFT2 had a value of 5000 SC and NFT 3 had a value of 3000
SC. Most importantly, however, NFT2 and NFT3 were randomly given to Human1 and
Human2 and both could only use these NFTs complimentarily within an offer.
Table 2. Second auction run with one virtual and three human agents
Participant
type
Initial credit NFT1 Bidding
count
NFT2 offer
count
NFT3 offer
count
Owner of the
asset at the end
of round
Human3 7000SC 9 3 1 NFT1
Human2 7000SC 7 2 3 NFT2, NFT3
Human1 7000SC 5 – – –
AG1 7000SC 3 − − –
Table 2 illustrates the result of the second auction. In this auction run, initially,
Human1 had NFT3, and Human2 had NFT2. In the first round, Human3 made a series
26 M. Yilmaz et al.
of offers to Human2 for NFT3 and ultimately paid 3500 as a winning offer. As a result,
this actively changes NFT3’s initial price to 3500. Therefore, Human3 was able to raise
their total SC to 7500 and won NFT1 at the end of the final round. AG1 was not able
to locate a price to synchronize its system credits to any asset. In fact, it was not really
programmed for making offers.
In this final scenario for this preliminary part of the research, we built a bartering
test and randomly created and assigned 3 NFTs to three human participants. Here, we
did not offer any system credits to the players, and they could only request an exchange
for the items the other auctioneers owned.
Table 3. The third auction run with three human agents
Participant
type
Initial credit NFT1 offer
count
NFT2 offer
count
NFT3 offer
count
Owner of the
asset at the end
of round
Human3 NFT3 1 4 – NFT2
Human2 NFT2 2 – 3 NFT3
Human1 NFT1 – 1 4 NFT1
Table 3 shows an interesting kind of auction among the three human agents. Human3
and Human 2 made a series of offers for the items owned by each other. At the end of
a series of rounds they exchanged the NFTs as agreed. However, Human1 was not
successful in agreeing on any exchanges.
4 Research Limitations and Future Work
Wehave initially observed that an auction house in a virtual reality setting can potentially
improve the interactive experience of trading in the Metaverse. However, the study was
limited to the Oculus Quest 2 hardware, and it was not actually tested for more than three
participants. At first, bidders found the experience different while experimenting with
the system with virtual agents. Although all participants (human and virtual) were using
avatars where agents could not be differentiated at first sight, it was observed that the
auctions conducted only with humans were more entraining for the human participants.
However, this paper does not attempt to assess the fun factor. To create amore realistic
auction house experience, one participant suggested that our virtual environment could
benefit from some sounds and perhaps some background noises. In addition, it was
also suggested that more scenarios would be essential for investigating the outcomes of
the auction mechanism. Further investigations are needed to confirm and validate our
findings.
Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) 27
5 Conclusions
This research was undertaken to assess different auction mechanisms in a virtual reality
environment and is among the first to investigate the bartering experiences of human par-
ticipants in a virtual auction. The goal was to create a marketplace where we could assess
the feasibility of auctioning mechanisms for NFT-like digital assets in future Metaverse
environments. This study has shown that a basic auctionmechanism can be implemented
with good interaction results. It has also explored the potential of digital trading assets
in particular virtual ecosystem. These findings have significant implications for under-
standing how digital trading assets can change our perception of the next-generation
world-wide-web.
Notwithstanding the relatively limited iterations, this work offers valuable insights
into trading in the Metaverse. In particular, it has raised important questions about the
nature of bartering in digital trading. When considered together, these results suggest
that auctions have the potential to be a part of our next-generation trading platforms,
especially in the Metaverse.
Acknowledgements. This research is in part supported by SFI, Science Foundation Ireland
(https://www.sfi.ie/), grant No SFI 13/RC/2094 P2 to Lero - the Science Foundation Ireland
Research Centre for Software.
References
1. Arslan, İ, Karagül, S.: Küresel bir tehdit (COVID-19 salgını) ve değişime yolculuk. Üsküdar
Üniversitesi Sos. Bilim. Derg. 10, 1–36 (2020)
2. Dionisio, J.D.N., III, W.G.B., Gilbert, R.: 3D virtual worlds and the metaverse: Current status
and future possibilities. ACM Comput. Surv. 45(3), 1–38 (2013)
3. Xu, M., Niyato, D., Kang, J., Xiong, Z., Miao, C., Kim, D.I.: Wireless Edge-Empowered
Metaverse: A Learning-Based Incentive Mechanism for Virtual Reality, arXiv Prepr.
arXiv2111.03776 (2021)
4. Drachen, A., Riley, J., Baskin, S., Klabjan, D.: Going out of business: auction house behavior
in the massively multi-player online game glitch. Entertain. Comput. 5(4), 219–232 (2014)
5. Ball, M.: Framework for the Metaverse (2021). https://www.matthewball.vc/all/forwardtothe
metaverseprimer. Accessed 11 Apr 2022
6. Chauhan, V., Shah, M.H.: An empirical analysis into sentiments, media consumption habits,
and consumer behaviour during the coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak. Purakala UGC Care
J. 31(20), 353–375 (2020)
7. Sheth, J.: Impact of Covid-19 on consumer behavior: will the old habits return or die? J. Bus.
Res. 117, 280–283 (2020)
8. Newton, C.: Mark in the Metaverse (2021). https://www.theverge.com/22588022/mark-zuc
kerberg-facebook-ceo-metaverse-interview. Accessed 11 Apr 2022
9. Stephenson, N.: Snow crash. Bantam, New York (1992)
10. Wang, Y., et al.: A Survey on Metaverse: Fundamentals, Security, and Privacy, arXiv Prepr.
arXiv2203.02662 (2022)
11. Rubin, P.: Fortnite’s Marshmello Concert Is the Future of the Metaverse (2019). https://www.
wired.com/story/fortnite-marshmello-concert-vr-ar-multiverse/
https://www.sfi.ie/
https://www.matthewball.vc/all/forwardtothemetaverseprimer
https://www.theverge.com/22588022/mark-zuckerberg-facebook-ceo-metaverse-interview
https://www.wired.com/story/fortnite-marshmello-concert-vr-ar-multiverse/
28 M. Yilmaz et al.
12. McDonald, J.: Roblox’s metaverse is already here, and it’s wildly popular (2021). https://
www.emergingtechbrew.com/stories/2021/12/10/roblox-s-metaverse-is-already-here-and-it-
s-wildly-popular. Accessed 12 Apr 2022
13. Lee, L.-H., et al.: All one needs to know about metaverse: A complete survey on technological
singularity, virtual ecosystem, and research agenda. arXiv Prepr. arXiv2110.05352 (2021)
14. Zuckerberg, M.: Founder’s Letter, 2021(2021). https://about.fb.com/news/2021/10/founders-
letter/
15. Kim, J.-G.: A study on metaverse culture contents matching platform. Int. J. Adv. Cult.
Technol. 9(3), 232–237 (2021)
16. Kiong, L.V.: Metaverse Made Easy: A Beginner’s Guide to the Metaverse: Everything you
need to know about Metaverse, NFT and GameFi. Liew Voon Kiong (2022)
17. Vesprille, A.: NFT Market Surpassed $40 Billion in 2021 (2022)
18. Rehman,W., Zainab,H., Imran, J., Bawany,N.Z.: NFTs: applications and challenges. In: 2021
22nd International Arab Conference on Information Technology (ACIT), pp. 1–7 (2021)
19. Fairfield, J.: Tokenized: the law of non-fungible tokens and unique digital property. Indiana
Law J. Forthcom. (2021)
20. Kugler, L.: Non-fungible tokens and the future of art. Commun. ACM 64(9), 19–20 (2021)
21. Wang, Q., Li, R., Wang, Q., Chen, S.: Non-fungible token (NFT): Overview, evaluation,
opportunities and challenges, arXiv Prepr. arXiv2105.07447 (2021)
22. Pinto-Gutiérrez, C., Gaitán, S., Jaramillo, D., Velasquez, S.: The NFT hype: what draws
attention to non-fungible tokens? Mathematics 10(3), 335 (2022)
23. Mani, A.: A comprehensive study of NFTs. Int. J. Res. Appl. Sci. Eng. Technol. 9(4), 1656–
1660 (2021)
24. Ross, D., Cretu, E., Lemieux, V.: NFTs: tulip mania or digital renaissance? In: 2021 IEEE
International Conference on Big Data (Big Data), pp. 2262–2272 (2021)
25. Foundation (2021)
26. Fazli, M., Owfi, A., Taesiri, M.R.: Under the Skin of Foundation NFT Auctions (2021). arXiv
Prepr. arXiv2109.12321
27. Oğuz, K.U.Ş: Metaverse:Dijital Büyük Patlamada’Fırsatlar ve Endişelere Yönelik Algılar.
Intermedia Int. E-J. 8(15), 245–266 (2022)
28. Mitchell, I., Govias, G.: Frequently asked questions. In: Asthma Education, pp. 445–473.
Springer, Cham (2021). https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77896-5_13
29. Ning, H., et al.: A Survey onMetaverse: the State-of-the-art, Technologies, Applications, and
Challenges. arXiv Prepr. arXiv2111.09673 (2021)
30. Ma, V.: 5 Futuristic Jobs of The Metaverse (2021). https://hackernoon.com/5-futuristic-jobs-
of-the-metaverse. Accessed 11 Apr 2022
31. Hassouneh, D., Brengman, M.: Retailing in social virtual worlds: developing a typology of
virtual store atmospherics (2015)
32. Krishna, V.: Auction Theory. Academic Press (2009)
33. Baye, M.R., Kovenock, D., De Vries, C.G.: The herodotus paradox. Games Econ. Behav.
74(1), 399–406 (2012)
34. Mochón, A., Sáez, Y.: Understanding Auctions. Springer (2015)
35. Sheffi, Y.: Combinatorial auctions in the procurement of transportation services. Interfaces
(Providence) 34(4), 245–252 (2004)
36. Graves, R.L., Schrage, L., Sankaran, J.: An auction method for course registration. Interfaces
(Providence) 23(5), 81–92 (1993)
https://www.emergingtechbrew.com/stories/2021/12/10/roblox-s-metaverse-is-already-here-and-it-s-wildly-popular
https://about.fb.com/news/2021/10/founders-letter/
https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-77896-5_13
https://hackernoon.com/5-futuristic-jobs-of-the-metaverse
	Examining the Use of Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) as a Trading Mechanism for the Metaverse
	1 Introduction
	2 Background
	2.1 The Notion of Metaverse
	2.2 Non-fungible Tokens (NFT)
	2.3 Auction Systems
	3 Virtual Auction House Prototype
	4 Research Limitations and Future Work
	5 Conclusions
	References